---
title: 'Siam Samai 1882-1886'
description: 'Siam Samai'
date: 2026-01-19T00:00:00Z
draft: false
weight: 3
cascade:
  type: docs
---
### Introduction

The จดหมาย เหตุ สยาม ไสมย (Chotmaihet Siam Samai) newspaper, or Siam Samai, was published from 1882 to 1886. 

The title can perhaps be translated as "Siam Times" but it must not be confused with the another newspaper
named Siam Times (สยาม ไตมส์) published in 1863. The word ไสมย is an archaic spelling
of the modern Thai สมัย, meaning "era, time or period". Bradley, in his contemporary Siamese Dictionary
of 1873 defines ไสมย as:

> ไสมย    ฯ แปล ว่า กาละ ว่า คราว, ความ คล้าย กับ ระดู มี ระดู ร้อน เปน ต้น
>
> Samai   means time, period, or similar to season, such as hot season.

The content of สยาม ไสมย differs from Bradley's earlier Bangkok Recorder which had been shut down following
the loss of a liable case brought by the French Consul Gabriel Aubaret. While Bradley’s paper 
contained a lot of political and social reform commentary, Smith focused on more easily read
subjects, literature and much less on "social crusades." It was a safe way to gain an audience without offending 
diplomats or the palace.

Of the editor, Samuel John Smith, known to the Siamese people as หมอสมิธ (Dr. Smith):

> Before leaving Burma, the Reverend and 
> Mrs. Jones adopted an English boy, Samuel
> John Smith. Smith was sent to be educate in
> the United States, where he was ordained, joining
> the Baptist mission in Bangkok in 1849.
> From 1869, he operated an independent pressing
> office, where he edited and published in
> English the _Siam Weekly Advertiser_ (1869-86),
> the _Siam Repository_ (1869-84), the annual
> _Siam Directory_ and (in Siamese) _Sayam Samai_
> (1882-86), an English-Siamese grammar, a
> Siamese-English grammar, an arithmetic textbook,
> a Christian catechism, a comprehensive
> Anglo-Siamese dictionary, and a comprehensive
> Siamese-English dictionary (which was ready
> for the press at the time of his death but was
> never printed). He printed Siamese prose and
> poetry in great quantities, making the printed
> page a very common commodity and selling
> presses and fonts of type to Siamese and
> Chinese job printers, who opened presses 
> everywhere in Siam.
> 
> International Book Publishing: An Encylopedia. _Altbach & Hoshino_, 1995

### Project Notes

* This newspaper has not (yet) been manually proofread. There are likely to be mistakes in the 
  automated transcription.

* See this [article](/articles/thai-lunar-calendar-101/) for a guide to Thai Lunar dates.

[INDEX]

### Statistics

[STATISTICS]