---
linkTitle: 'April 15th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 15th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 15th'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 7
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY APRIL 15th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 7.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok April 15th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
History bears out the fact that great<br/>
events are usually crowded together in a<br/>
brief period of time. And so it appears<br/>
in Siam. During the fortnight which in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tervenes between the issues of our paper,<br/>
there is usually so little transpires, that we<br/>
have scarcely anything worth recording.<br/>
Two remarkable events however are this<br/>
time crowded into the brief space of two<br/>
weeks, since our last issue. The usual quiet<br/>
and monotony of the city and the Kingdom<br/>
has been ruffled by the summary and un-<br/>
ceremonious arrival amongst us of H. I. M.<br/>
Gun boat "Mitraille". Indeed she has creat-<br/>
ed quite a panic in some quarters. Accord-<br/>
ing to reports she passed Paknam with ports<br/>
open,—guns run out and manned, and<br/>
shot and shell strewed upon deck ready for<br/>
action. In vain did the poor authorities<br/>
display their signals in order that she<br/>
should pay them the usual civilities and<br/>
obtain permission to ascend the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This too is the more ridiculous as we sup-<br/>
pose the authorities there had not the slight-<br/>
est idea of the cause of this warlike attitude.<br/>
Had she however known the condition of<br/>
the forts she certainly would not have taken<br/>
the precautions to prepare for action, for we<br/>
suppose it would require at least twenty<br/>
four hours notice to be ready to fire a gun<br/>
from any of them. But why this uncere-<br/>
monious arrival amongst us!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some time ago the French authorities at<br/>
Saigon assumed the prerrogative of taking<br/>
under their protection the Prince of Cam-<br/>
bodia, and of treating with him indepen-<br/>
dent of the King of Siam to whom he was<br/>
tributary. At this the Siamese authorities<br/>
were no doubt chagrined but they prompt-<br/>
ly yielded the point. The French treaty<br/>
gave them exclusive privilege with Cam-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
bodia and no other power could treat there<br/>
without special permision to do so. In<br/>
answer to some inquiries however from<br/>
other powers, and especially from the Eng-<br/>
lish Foreign Office, the French declared<br/>
they did not wish to hold the exclusive<br/>
privilege of trading with Combodia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Acting upon such a declaration or per-<br/>
haps a similar one granted privately to<br/>
them, the Siamese authorities proceeded to<br/>
negotiate a treaty with Cambodia, which<br/>
covered nearly, if not all the original<br/>
ground, and necessarily contravened some<br/>
of the articles of the French treaty. The<br/>
treaty of the Siamese was published, and<br/>
the question was naturally asked which one<br/>
was to be followed. The French could<br/>
therefore do nothing less than demand the<br/>
abrogation of that treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The demand it is said was made by the<br/>
Consul, and yielded before the gun boat ar-<br/>
rived. In this affair the Siamese evidently<br/>
did wrong, and it will probably teach them<br/>
never again to do anything in a secret un-<br/>
derhanded way. They had already yielded<br/>
to the French the right to treat with and<br/>
protect Cambodia independent of them.<br/>
Having done this, they should not then<br/>
have concluded a treaty with Cambodia,<br/>
embodying articles which would contravene<br/>
the French treaty. The fact is they should<br/>
not have yielded in the first instance. It<br/>
is true they had not the power to resist but<br/>
they could have protested to the other treaty<br/>
powers and then if they had to yield they<br/>
would at least have shown some appear-<br/>
ance of being game.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All due concessions have however been<br/>
made, and the treaty it is said publicly dis-<br/>
troyed, and it is to be hoped the French<br/>
will be satisfied and not again assume the<br/>
prerogative of protecting powers tributary<br/>
to other nations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another event however has occurred<br/>
which will doubtless in a manner atone for<br/>
this apparent humiliation, and compensate<br/>
for all previous concessions. Another white<br/>
elephant has been found in the forest and<br/>
surrounded. His Excellency the Pra-klang<br/>
it is said together with some others has<br/>
gone post haste to the place to assist in<br/>
securing the precious creature. Should they<br/>
be successful and succeed in bringing her<br/>
to Bangkok, the event will augur well for<br/>
the future prosperity of the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such will be the power of her presence,<br/>
that the "Mitraille" might almost venture<br/>
to scatter some of her mischievous missiles<br/>
around indiscriminately and they would<br/>
doubtless prove perfectly harmless. It is<br/>
to be hoped however that she will not be<br/>
killed with kindness as some of her pre-<br/>
decessors have been.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These greater events doubtless cast the<br/>
Song-Kran somewhat in the shade. The<br/>
people however appear to be enjoying their<br/>
play. Every house has become during the<br/>
holidays a gambling house, and the whole<br/>
family from the oldest to the youngest<br/>
may oftentimes be seen seated around in<br/>
a circle wasting precious time in gambling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number of red cloths too, displayed<br/>
around by the young of both sexes indicate<br/>
that something unusual is going on.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some too are making sand gods at the<br/>
Wats, the belief being, that any one who<br/>
succeeds during his life time in making<br/>
4500 of those gods will have secured<br/>
merit sufficient to clear him from all future<br/>
punishment. These performances and a<br/>
rather formidable procession which took<br/>
place in conveying a stuffed elephant to<br/>
one of the Wats at Ban-Ta-wai completed<br/>
the general round of amusements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICAN GENERALS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No war since the day that wars first be-<br/>
gan when Abraham punished the treacher-<br/>
ous kings of the plain, has been prolific of<br/>
so many Generals as the present momentous<br/>
struggle in the United States. On the side<br/>
of the government at least seventy five<br/>
Major, and about four hundred Brigadier<br/>
Generals are the result of a four years con-<br/>
test. But perhaps two thirds of the Major,<br/>
and very many of the Brigadier have been<br/>
laid upon the shelf, never again to be taken<br/>
down. When the Rebellion broke out, Lieu-<br/>
tenant General Scott,—the old Hero who<br/>
had never lost a battle was superannuated,<br/>
not at all able to take the field, and indeed<br/>
was considered too old to take the manage-<br/>
ment of affairs as General-in-Chief, which<br/>
office he resigned shortly after the war<br/>
commenced. General R. E. Lee now Gen-<br/>
eral-in-chief of the Rebel forces was the pet<br/>
of General Scott,—was a member of his<br/>
staff,—knew all his tactics, and it was con-<br/>
ceded by all that as a strategist he ranked<br/>
next to the old Hero himself. Next to Lee<br/>
came Albert Sydney Johnston, who Com-<br/>
manded the expedition to Utah, and<br/>
when the rebellion commenced was in com-<br/>
mand of the fortifications of California.<br/>
He also went over to the rebels and was<br/>
killed at the battle of Shiloh. General<br/>
Joseph E. Johnson also stood high, and<br/>
as an engineer Beauregard had few superiors,<br/>
but these too were also on the side of the<br/>
rebellion. Beauregard fired the first gun at<br/>
the national flag, and if the last telegram be<br/>
true, he has met his just reward,—perhaps<br/>
was killed in defense of the place where he<br/>
committed his first act of treason. Gen-.<br/>
ral Wool was also nearly superannuated, and<br/>
besides between him and Scott a deadly<br/>
feud existed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When President Lincoln called for seventy<br/>
five thousand men to put down the rebel-<br/>
lion, it was necessary to have some one to<br/>
lead them in the field. The choice of the<br/>
government, from political motives rather<br/>
than any thing else, fell upon Gen. Irwin<br/>
Mc. Dowel, who had been employed for<br/>
some time in the bureaux at Washington.<br/>
His military abilities are no doubt respect-<br/>
able, but his record at Bull Run proved that<br/>
he was not the man for the crisis, and had<br/>
no claim to the first place among Generals.<br/>
The eyes of the nation were then turned<br/>
toward George B. Mc. Clellan, as the one<br/>
who was to be instrumental in saving the<br/>
country. He was among the youngest of<br/>
coming men, and had enjoyed rare privil-<br/>
eges. He was a favorite at West Point, and<br/>
stood at the head of his class, and in point<br/>
of ability doubtless deserved it. He passed<br/>
through the Mexican war, and in company<br/>
with R. E. Lee was sent by the government<br/>
to the Crimea to see war as conducted by<br/>
Europeans. He was first placed in charge<br/>
in Western Virginia where his campaign<br/>
was a complete success. Upon the retirement<br/>
of Lieutenant General Scott, Me. Clellan<br/>
was called to Washington and made Gen-<br/>
eral-in-chief. The energy and perseverance<br/>
with which he took hold of the raw mate-<br/>
rial and made the army of the Potomac,<br/>
proved him to be a schoolmaster for an<br/>
army second to none perhaps in the world.<br/>
When he started upon his Peninsular cam-<br/>
paign he was in some way relieved of the<br/>
chief control of the armies, and Secretary<br/>
Stanton entered upon his disastrous career<br/>
as General-in-chief. During the Peninsular<br/>
campaign Mc Clellan was unfortunately<br/>
"taken in charge" by a set of politicians,<br/>
which circumstance eventually proved his<br/>
ruin. Had he possessed the good sense to<br/>
have repudiated all such advances, or like<br/>
Grant, to have kept his politics to himself,<br/>
he might possibly have continued to be<br/>
the man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As a General his great fault appeared to<br/>
be over cautiousness and as a consequence<br/>
he was denounced as tardy. His plans<br/>
on the Peninsula were greatly interfered<br/>
with by the President, which was perhaps<br/>
the most disastrous blunder committed<br/>
by Mr. Lincoln during the whole of the<br/>
severe ordeal through which he has passed.<br/>
Mc.Clellan was finally recalled from the<br/>
Peninsula against his will, and part of his<br/>
troops given to that paragon of imbecility,<br/>
John Pope, who through the influence of<br/>
General Halleck had been placed in com-<br/>
mand in Virginia. Pope had done tolera-<br/>
bly well as a subordinate under Halleck<br/>
in the west, but when given a large com-<br/>
mand his first address to the army should<br/>
have secured his removal at once. His in-<br/>
becile career ended in the disasters of a<br/>
second Bull Run. —Lee with a powerful and<br/>
victorious army invaded Maryland. The<br/>
fragments of the Potomac army were again<br/>
speedily collected together to repel the in-<br/>
vasion, and as no one else was to be found,<br/>
the command was again entrusted to Mc.<br/>
Clellan, who followed Lee, drove him from<br/>
Hagerstown Heights, whipped him severely<br/>
at Antietem, and had he possessed a little<br/>
more dash, and followed up his victory he<br/>
might have destroyed Lee's army before he<br/>
recrossed the Potomac. He followed Lee<br/>
across the Potomac and there stopped to<br/>
re-arrange the army and await proper sup-<br/>
plies. General Halleck, and President<br/>
Lincoln urged him again and again to<br/>
move, but he still replied he was not ready:<br/>
but before he got ready he was relieved of<br/>
his command. There can be little doubt<br/>
however that if his plans had not been in-<br/>
terferred with, or he removed from the Pen-<br/>
insula he would in time have taken Rich-<br/>
mond. And after crossing the Potomac<br/>
in the latter instance, had he moved before<br/>
he was ready, he might like his successors<br/>
have met the defeats of Fredericksburg and<br/>
Chancelorville. Had he however been<br/>
contented to remain upon the shelf until<br/>
the end of the war he would doubtless have<br/>
been looked upon as the victim of political<br/>
jealousy, and consequently somewhat of a<br/>
martyr, and he might therefore have been<br/>
elevated to the highest office in the gift of<br/>
the people. but he suffered himself to be<br/>
carried into the political arena too soon,<br/>
and although repudiating their platform, he<br/>
accepted the nomination of the “Peace-at<br/>
any-price party” for President. His star<br/>
completely disappeared on the 8th of Nov-<br/>
ember 1864. He will now never perhaps<br/>
occupy a higher position than President of<br/>
a railroad company, for which position he<br/>
is said to be eminently qualified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
To be Continued.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TUILERIES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 53.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after the tragedy of the St. Bar-<br/>
tholemew Catherine deserted the Tuileries <br/>
seized away by the terror of a name; bold <br/>
as she was and utterly regardless while she <br/>
pursued the career of her ambition, both of <br/>
the restraints of morality, and the threaten-<br/>
ings of human opposition. An astrologer <br/>
had foretold that she would die near St. <br/>
Germain—a prediction judiciously enough <br/>
framed—the name of this Saint being very <br/>
common in old Paris, so that it would have <br/>
been difficult to reside there at all, without <br/>
being in the neighborhood of some place so <br/>
designated. But having thus as she imagined <br/>
obtained notice of the intention of the fates, <br/>
Catherine resolved if possible to elude them. <br/>
With this view we are told, she scrupulously <br/>
avoided entering any of the churches that <br/>
bore the dreaded name in question. She <br/>
even refrained from going any more to the <br/>
Royal Palace at St. Germain en Laye, which <br/>
she had been in the habit of frequently <br/>
visiting. Finally on bethinking herself that <br/>
the Tuileries was in the Parish of St. Ger- <br/>
main l’ Auxerrois, she actually determined <br/>
to abandon that residence, notwithstanding <br/>
all the wealth she had expended upon it. <br/>
She thereupon built another residence on <br/>
the site of the Convent Filles Penitentes— <br/>
now that of the Hulle Aux Ble' which she <br/>
purchased from these Nuns. In this house <br/>
called from her the Hotel de la Reine, and <br/>
after her decease successively the Hotel des <br/>
Princesses, and the Hotel de Soissons, she <br/>
died in 1589. Did she then after all escape <br/>
the astrologers prediction ?. The priest <br/>
who attended her in her last hours was the <br/>
Bishop of Nazareth, whose name was Lau-<br/>
rence de St. Germain—and this which was <br/>
probably a chance, the author of the proph-<br/>
ecy had not counted upon, was deemed <br/>
fulfilment enough to save his credit, and that <br/>
of the imaginary science. The stories of <br/>
such oracles generally end in this manner, <br/>
after the example of riddles that amuse <br/>
children of smaller growth. I cannot how-<br/>
ever help diverging a little from my subject<br/>
to remind our English readers of another,<br/>
of a similar character that has been told of<br/>
the death of our own King Henry the IV.<br/>
and which Shakespeare has remembered in<br/>
giving us the death scene of that Monarch.<br/>
"Doth any name in particular," asks Hen-<br/>
ry, "belong unto the lodging where I first<br/>
did swoon?" To which the Earl of War-<br/>
wick answers "It is called Jerusalem my no-<br/>
ble Lord." On this the King exclaimed: -
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Laud be to God! — even there my life must end.
It hath been prophecied to me many years,
I should not die but in Jerusalem;
Which vainly I supposed, the Holy Land—
But, bear me to that chamber; There I'll lie;
In that Jerusalem shall Harry die."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We may mention here that Catherine,<br/>
when she removed to her new residence, did<br/>
not abandon her astrological speculations.<br/>
In the building of the Hotel de la Reine<br/>
was a fluted doric tower, the work of John<br/>
Bullant, ninety five feet in height having a<br/>
winding stair case within, which Catherine<br/>
had built to serve her as a ,neans to read<br/>
the mysterious book of the stars. An<br/>
Italian astrologer, named Comes de Ruggieri,<br/>
is particularly mentioned as having been<br/>
wont to accompany her to the top of this<br/>
observatory, and there to assist her in thus<br/>
vainly attempting to penetrate into the<br/>
night of the future. This watch tower is<br/>
still to be seen in the outer wall of the<br/>
magnificent Halle Aux Ble', being the only<br/>
part of the Hotel de la Reine that now re-<br/>
mains standing. A fountain now issues from<br/>
its pedestal, and a sun dial of very ingenious<br/>
construction has been placed on the shaft.<br/>
It is a fit emblem of the changed spirit of<br/>
the times, that what in one age was dedica-<br/>
ted to the high but visionury aim of<br/>
communing with the stars by a bold and<br/>
ambitious spirit, should in ours be made to<br/>
serve the humbler and more useful purpose<br/>
of showing the passing hour to those who<br/>
labor in the peaceful duties of commerce.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
STEAM SUGAR MILL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 36.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was full 2 P. M. on the 3rd day ere we<br/>
reached the Steam Sugar Mill of Poh Yim<br/>
& Co., now rented to “The Borneo Company<br/>
Limited” and said to be twenty miles be-<br/>
low the town of Na-k’awn-Chiesee. It must<br/>
be that that measurement is made via some<br/>
short-cuts and not around all the great<br/>
bends which the river makes. Seeing a<br/>
boat bearing a family of Europeans ap-<br/>
proaching his dwelling, Mr. S., the chief<br/>
Engineer of the establishment, came down<br/>
and very politely received us at his landing,<br/>
and conducted us up into his house<br/>
which, though rudely built by Siamese<br/>
carpenters, was made very pleasant by an<br/>
English occupant arranging European furni-<br/>
ture according to good notions of order and<br/>
comfort. We were seated in the "Old<br/>
arm chair" as well as the new. Even the<br/>
old American rocking chair had two or<br/>
more prepossessing representatives in the<br/>
spacious verandah, which were prompt to<br/>
offer us their arms and their embrace
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having intimated to our host, that the<br/>
chief object of our calling upon him un-<br/>
ceremoniously was to see the Steam Sugar<br/>
Mill, and having declined his poilte invita-<br/>
tion to dinner, he conducted us into the<br/>
Mill, and very attentively pointed out to<br/>
us the most important parts of the establish-<br/>
ment. We were much pleased with the<br/>
whole both in the general and the particu-<br/>
lar. Every thing was entirely new, and<br/>
had been in operation only about ten days.<br/>
The machinery was said to be in good<br/>
working order. The grinding of the cane<br/>
with two Iron Mills by steam power, in our<br/>
view casts the old mode of our enormous<br/>
wooden cog-rollers by buffalo power entirely<br/>
into the shade. They perform the work with<br/>
mach greater rapidity and much more per-<br/>
fectly, the cane coming out on the opposite<br/>
side almost dry enough to be used imme-<br/>
diately for fuel in the furnaces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would that we could have remained<br/>
sufficiently long to have obtained a minute<br/>
and accurate knowledge of all we saw.<br/>
Suffice it to say that we were at once struck<br/>
with the vast improvements in Siamese and<br/>
Chinese Sugar making which this New<br/>
Mill is about introducing, and which must<br/>
eventually work in it a great revolution.<br/>
How much more expeditious, ( we involun-<br/>
tarily exclaimed,) is the boiling of the cane<br/>
juice ! How much less fuel the furnaces<br/>
require ! And how much more rapidly is the<br/>
syrup converted into beautifully grained<br/>
sugar !
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we passed the native Sugar Mills on<br/>
our way to the place, what first struck<br/>
our attention was the great number and<br/>
large capacity of the buildings required for<br/>
the execution of their work. Secondly the<br/>
mountain piles of wood in front of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But when we came to the Steam Mill the<br/>
outward show was so small and so modest,<br/>
that but one moderate sized building cover-<br/>
ed with zinc, or galvanized iron sheets, with<br/>
two tall white chimney was to be seen.<br/>
And, as to the wood pile, it was so small as<br/>
to escape entirely our observation. When<br/>
we inquired of Mr. S—how he managed<br/>
for fuel his reply was, that he needed but<br/>
little wood, as the cane was so soon and<br/>
easily dried that it answered nearly all<br/>
his wants for that purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were particularly interested with the<br/>
machinery for grinding the syrup by cen-<br/>
trifugal power. We will venture a rough<br/>
description of it. Fancy six or eight vessels<br/>
somewhat like kettles, two feet deep by as<br/>
many in diameter, the sides of which are<br/>
of fine sieve work. These are so arranged<br/>
as to revolve horizontally on each its own<br/>
axis. The cold syrup being poured a few<br/>
gallons into each kettle at a time, and the<br/>
band of the machinery slipped on the props<br/>
per wheel!, they are made to bus around<br/>
with great velocity a minute or two, which<br/>
causes the syrup, (till then only occupying<br/>
the bottom of the kettles,) to rise up and<br/>
cleave to their sides. This centrifugal<br/>
power and rapid stirring of the syrup<br/>
causes it at once to grain, and presses that<br/>
part of it which will not turn into sugar, out-<br/>
wardly through the sieve-like sides of the ket-<br/>
tles. When they begin to spin around,<br/>
you will see the dark shade of the syrup,<br/>
rapidly disappearing, and a brighter and<br/>
whitish one coming over it. When the<br/>
color has attained to the desired shade, the<br/>
evolution is stopped by a slip of the band,<br/>
and you find the grained sugar adhering<br/>
equally to all the sides of the kettles, the<br/>
molasses having been driven by centrifugal<br/>
power through the interstices of the sieve<br/>
outwardly, and collected in the common reser-<br/>
voir for another boiling. Then, men standing<br/>
ready with open bags and ladles at<br/>
each kettle, step up and lade out the sugar,<br/>
putting it into bags, all ready for market.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now the graining and drying process,<br/>
by this new mode, requiring not over three<br/>
minutes of time to complete, requires by<br/>
the old mode more than a month. The<br/>
old mode is to put the syrup into earthen<br/>
pots of six or eight gallons capacity, having<br/>
their lower ends moulded to an acute oval<br/>
points, with a small orifice at their points<br/>
for the egress of such part of the syrup as<br/>
will not grain. These pots are made to<br/>
stand up on their oval ends by putting<br/>
them in a smaller earthen vessel, designed<br/>
for catching the drainings of the sugar.<br/>
You may see many hundreds of these<br/>
sugar drainers standing in rows under<br/>
immense attap covered sheds. After a little<br/>
time a layer of fine plastic clay, an inch or<br/>
two thick, is placed on the top of the sugar<br/>
in each of the drainers, which causes the<br/>
molasses of the sugar to recede towards the<br/>
bottom of the pots, leaving, after many<br/>
days, a stratum two or more inches thick of<br/>
whitish sugar immediately underneath the<br/>
clay, at which time the latter has become<br/>
dry and shrunken. It is then removed and<br/>
the drained sugar laded out. The remain-<br/>
der is covered with another soft layer of<br/>
clay, and waited upon in the same way and<br/>
manner as above described. This process<br/>
needs to be repeated many times before<br/>
the whole of the sugar in the drainers has<br/>
been whitened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With all the tardiness of this old mode,<br/>
there is another serious fault to be found<br/>
with it, which is, that some of the clay will<br/>
necessarily adhere to the sugar. Hence the<br/>
small lumps of earth which are often to be<br/>
seen in Siamese sugars, and which all are<br/>
forced to eat when they use it. And a-<br/>
gain, when the draining after the old mode<br/>
has been finished, the sugar comes off in<br/>
irregular and coarse lumps. To remedy this,<br/>
they spread it out to dry a little time in the<br/>
sun, and then subject it to a smashing<br/>
process by means of heavy blocks with long<br/>
handles attached, drawn and pushed over<br/>
it on a hard floor. This is the finishing<br/>
stroke.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now contrast all this laborious and te-<br/>
dious process with that most admirable one<br/>
of the Steam Mill. There the syrup is<br/>
grained, and dried, and pulverised in a few<br/>
moments of time, and immediately put up<br/>
for market.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We could not but be delighted with this<br/>
manifestation of superior wisdom and skill,<br/>
which the divine author of all wisdom, has<br/>
been pleased to impart to our brother man.<br/>
It would seem that these godless Buddhist<br/>
would be impressed with such exhibitions<br/>
of a "superhuman agency" and be con-<br/>
strained to confess, that mankind of the<br/>
Western and Christian nations, have en-<br/>
joyed some peculiar communications with<br/>
a living and all wise God, and Father, which<br/>
they themselves have never experienced,<br/>
and that they would be thus inclined to seek<br/>
after the same friend and helper. But such<br/>
seems not to be the result as yet. They<br/>
are prone to resolve all the vast differences<br/>
between Western improvements and their<br/>
own to the notion that the fates, and not<br/>
God, have done it all in consideration of<br/>
personal merit acquired by, and laid up in<br/>
store for the Western races countless ages<br/>
in the past.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors and employees of the na-<br/>
tive sugar mills, seem to look upon the<br/>
New Mill with a jealous eye, and are look-<br/>
ing for it to fail as did an effort, similar in<br/>
kind, made some for five years since in their<br/>
own neighborhood. But we were pleased<br/>
with the token of credit they gave to the New<br/>
Mill, which was, that it does not run on<br/>
Sundays.—The Lord bless the men who<br/>
thus honor him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When about to take leave of Mr. S. he<br/>
made the remark, that this year was going<br/>
to prove an unfortunate one for the com-<br/>
mencement of the new enterprise, as the<br/>
universal drought had left the sugar cane<br/>
with an unusually small quantity of juice,<br/>
and that so brackish as seriously to prevent<br/>
the graining of the syrup. This peculiarity<br/>
of the sap he thought to be in consequence<br/>
of the “latter rains ” having too suddenly<br/>
stopped, thus allowing the tidal waters to<br/>
become saltish from the preponderating in-<br/>
fluences of the sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thinking that perhaps this unfortunate<br/>
circumstance might be ascribed in part to<br/>
some fault in the new mode of making the<br/>
sugar, we took occasion to make inquiries<br/>
of a native mill touching this point, and<br/>
were happy to learn that it could not be<br/>
from any fault of the New Mill, but wholly<br/>
attributable to the salt in the cane juices.<br/>
Our Chinese informants said, that the cane<br/>
of all the southern parts of the Province of<br/>
Na-kawn-Chie-see, had this year been great-<br/>
ly injured by the preponderance of sea<br/>
water over rain water,—that consequently<br/>
the juice of the cane produces an unusually<br/>
large amount of refuse molasses compared<br/>
with the sugar,—and that hence there will<br/>
this year be a great failure in all the native<br/>
mills in that quarter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the same person we obtained the<br/>
following particulars concerning native mills;<br/>
vis—That on the Ta-cheen river there are<br/>
in operation, this year, 25 native sugar mills,<br/>
that each of them has, on an average, 200<br/>
workmen—that the cane is bought by the<br/>
field or Rei (180 feet square) at from 20<br/>
to 30 ticals per field,—that buffaloes are<br/>
hired to grind the cane for one tical for<br/>
every 20 large pails of sap which they<br/>
press out,—that common workmen get from<br/>
15 to 20 ticals per month—the firemen<br/>
(being eight persons for each furnace) 30<br/>
ticals per month,—and that the wood for<br/>
an ordinary establishment costs 100 Changs<br/>
—8000 ticals, per annum.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steam Mill, we are credibly inform-<br/>
ed, has produced on an average 125 piculs<br/>
of sugar daily for the last three months,<br/>
and if the cane were as good as it has<br/>
been many years past, the daily average<br/>
would be not less than 200 piculs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We find it almost impossible with native<br/>
compositors to get wholly clear of those an-<br/>
noyances. It is frequently no doubt the<br/>
fault of the Editor or proof reader, but<br/>
oftentimes corrections have been made in<br/>
the proof which were overlooked by the<br/>
compositors, and not noticed by others un-<br/>
til too late to remedy them. If we there-<br/>
fore sometimes murder the English and<br/>
sense of our correspondents we can only<br/>
ask their pardon and indulgence, promis-<br/>
ing in future to try to do better. We hope<br/>
however none of them will ever be placed<br/>
in so sad a predicament as the young gen-<br/>
tleman in the following lines.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FIRST APPEARANCE IN TYPE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Ah, here it is! I'm famous now ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}An author and a poet,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It really is in print. Ye gods!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}How proud I'll be to show it,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And goodie Anna! what a thrill<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Will animate her breast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To read these ardent lines, and know<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To whom they are addressed.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Why, bless my soul! here's something wrong<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}What can the paper mean,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By talking of the graceful brook,'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That 'gardens o'er the green !'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And here's a t instead of r,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Which makes it 'tippling rill,'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We'll seek the 'shad' instead of 'shade,'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And 'hall' instead of 'hill.'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}" 'Thy looks so' — what ! — I recollect,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}’T was 'sweet' and then 't was 'kind;'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And now, to think,—the stupid fool —<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For 'bland' has printed 'blind,'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Was ever such provoking work!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}("T is curious, by the by,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That any thing is rendered blind<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By giving it an i. )<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"The color of the ‘rose’ is ‘nose,’<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Affection' is 'affliction,'<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}(I wonder if the likeness holds<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In fact as well as fiction!)<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Thou art a friend.' The r is gone ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Whoever would have deemed<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That such a trifling thing could change<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A friend into a fiend.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}" ‘Thou art the same, ‘is rendered ‘lame,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It really is too bold!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And here because an i is out<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My lovely ‘maid' is mad,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}They drove her blind by poking in<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}An s——a process new—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And now they've gouged it out again,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And made her crazy too<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"I'll read no more. What shall I do?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I'll never dare to send it.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The paper's scattered far and wide,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}’T is now too late to mend it.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Oh, fame! thou cheat of human life,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Why did I ever write!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I wish my poem had been burnt,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Before it saw the light.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Was ever such a horrid hash,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In poetry or prose!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I've said she was a 'fiend!' and praised<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The color of her ‘nose.’<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I wish I had the printer here<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}About a half a minute,,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I'd bang him to my heart's content,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And with an h begin it."<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHIENG MAI, TRIP.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from page 43.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lakawn is the principal Laos city south<br/>
of Chieng Mai. It has at present a popu-<br/>
lation of about twenty thousand. It bears<br/>
evidence however of having been a larger<br/>
city in former times, as but little more<br/>
than half the space embraced within the old<br/>
city walls is now occupied. Some very<br/>
large dilapidated wats in that portion of the<br/>
old city, indicate that it was once inhabited.<br/>
The most of the present city is situated on<br/>
the East bank of the Quaa Wang, and was<br/>
the first walled town of the Laos to which<br/>
we came. The walls are very regularly<br/>
laid out and built of brick, except on the<br/>
side facing the river, which is of teak plank<br/>
or slabs about four inches thick, driven in<br/>
the ground so close together that they<br/>
make quite a compact wall. We could not<br/>
at first explain why it was that the river<br/>
side, which is most liable to an attack ac-<br/>
cording to the Siamese mode of travel and<br/>
warfare, should have been left comparatively<br/>
exposed, as even the teak walls in that has<br/>
are evidently of later date. The difficulty<br/>
was solved however, when, on crossing to<br/>
the West side of the river, we found the<br/>
remains of the old wall referred to above,<br/>
coming down to the river just opposite to<br/>
the walls of the present city on the East.<br/>
If this explanation be correct, and I have<br/>
no doubt that it is, the original town was<br/>
situated on both sides of the river enclosed<br/>
by a regular quadrangular wall. Whether<br/>
its population has dimished in proportion<br/>
as its limits have been contracted I did<br/>
not ascertain, though it is altogether pro-<br/>
bable that it has, and that it was once much<br/>
more populous than it is now, a portion of it<br/>
having been destroyed in some of the great<br/>
revolutions and changes that must have<br/>
taken place in the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Its political relations, as well as those of<br/>
all the other Laos towns in the north, are<br/>
somewhat complicated. There is first the<br/>
allegiance which they owe to their own<br/>
governor whose authority is much more<br/>
absolute than that of the governors in Siam-<br/>
ese cities and provinces. They employ<br/>
very much the same court language in re-<br/>
ference to him that the Siamese are accus-<br/>
tomed to use to their kings and princes.<br/>
When he comes he sedets and when you<br/>
visit him you fow him. In the second<br/>
place all the Siam-Laoatian cities and<br/>
provinces in the north owe a kind of alle-<br/>
giance to the Chieng Mai Prince.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is in some case probably, but little<br/>
more than the semblance of a former au-<br/>
thority, which was once real and great.<br/>
When the Laos was an independent country,<br/>
Lakawn, Lampoon, Ton and others were<br/>
provincial of gubernatorial cities, tributary<br/>
to the king of Chieng Mai. Their govern-<br/>
ors were appointed by the Laos King, just<br/>
as the governor of P'ripp'ri is appointed by<br/>
the Siamese Crown. When his mother<br/>
was conquered and became herself tributary<br/>
to Siam, his daughters still continued to<br/>
look up to her with filial reverence. Her<br/>
prince is regarded with no little deference<br/>
by the whole Laos people. Whether it is<br/>
merely optional on their part or not, it is<br/>
not any the less real. I think they all pay<br/>
an annual tribute to their former master.<br/>
It may be due in part, not so much to any<br/>
legal authority that he has over them, as to<br/>
the fact that the governors in all these places<br/>
belong to the old royal family of Chieng<br/>
Mai Princes. Being the highest living re-<br/>
presentatives of that race, they all feel a kind<br/>
of traditional pride on account of their con-<br/>
nection with him. One of the first things<br/>
that the governor of Lakawn and Lampoon<br/>
tell you, is that they are his relatives, and<br/>
are descended from their former line of<br/>
kings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And last, but not least, since the whole<br/>
country became tributary to Siam, they<br/>
owe an allegiance to His Majesty the King<br/>
of Siam, who boasts, and not without reason,<br/>
of being sovereign of all the Laos provinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
&c. &c. Although I suppose he would be<br/>
too prudent to depart from custom so far as<br/>
to appoint any other than a representative<br/>
of that family, as a governor in any of those<br/>
places, yet none would dare dispute his<br/>
right if he were to exercise it. Their ap-<br/>
pointment must come regularly from Bang-<br/>
kok, and they must have the royal seal<br/>
and sanction before they can take their of-<br/>
fice. Not long before we were at Tôn, the<br/>
governor of that place deceased. What<br/>
they call the Wang Na, (or second king<br/>
as it would be in Siam) was acting governor,<br/>
and was awaiting his appointment before<br/>
he could take the full title and authority<br/>
of his office. And although his appointment<br/>
was regarded as pretty certain, yet when<br/>
asked if he would succeed his brother, he<br/>
replied very cautiously, that it was just as<br/>
his Most gracious Majesty in Siam, should<br/>
see proper to grant. This tripple allegiance<br/>
connecting their cities with the royal family<br/>
of Siam, and the old one of the Laos, as<br/>
well as with their own governors, may be<br/>
very flattering to their vanity, but it makes<br/>
it more burdensome to the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We stayed there from Friday till Monday,<br/>
and found enough to interest us during<br/>
that time. The old governor received us<br/>
very kindly. He is about eighty years old<br/>
and rather in his dotage. The Palat who<br/>
attended to all the business, very kindly<br/>
and promptly made all our preparations for<br/>
departing on Monday morning. On such a<br/>
long trip our arrivals and our departures<br/>
were both interesting events to us. We<br/>
were glad to get to the next stopping place<br/>
and as glad to leave it again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We met there a son of Nikorñbawdin,<br/>
who had been up to Chieng Mãi on some<br/>
public business. He came down with a<br/>
train of thirty or forty elephants. We had<br/>
written home from Rã-hááng by the gov-<br/>
ernor who promised to send or carry our<br/>
letters in a few days, but could not resist<br/>
the good opportunity kindly offered by this<br/>
gentleman of writing again. He said he<br/>
would surely reach home in fifteen days.<br/>
What was our disappointment therefore,<br/>
when about a month afterwards, on reaching<br/>
Rã-hááng we found the royal messenger<br/>
still there, and also both of our letters, so<br/>
that we acted as the bearers of our own<br/>
despatches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After leaving Lakawn we had but little<br/>
to interest us the first day. From this we<br/>
found salas at appropriate distances apart,<br/>
built for the accommodation of the Chieng<br/>
Mai Prince and his train, when he goes<br/>
over annually to visit his relatives and make<br/>
merit during the season of T'awat Katin.<br/>
Our road the second day was most roman-<br/>
tic. It was up and down the steep ascent<br/>
of a mountain gorge, from the summit of<br/>
which flowed down in opposite directions, a<br/>
little rivulet enlarging as it advanced till it<br/>
was quite a large stream in the plain below.<br/>
Now, we were making our way along the<br/>
bed of the winding brook, again, we were<br/>
climbing up its steep bank's, and anon were<br/>
suspended as if by a hair's-breadth fifty feet<br/>
above it, as it rolled along in the deep chasm<br/>
beneath our feet. The memory of the scene<br/>
almost produced a shudder as to what would<br/>
have been our fate had a single mis-step<br/>
been made by our trust-worthy animals.<br/>
This road was often literally so narrow that<br/>
they had to scrape their sides and the how-<br/>
dahs against the solid rocks that rose up<br/>
perpendicularly from the path. The dif-<br/>
ficulty was increased because it was not only<br/>
the narrowest path along which we had to<br/>
wind our way, but also very irregular and<br/>
rocky. There was often but one track just<br/>
the size and shape of his huge foot worn<br/>
by the constant travel of elephants for<br/>
generations. But when planted there, you<br/>
were sure of two things—one was that it<br/>
was safe, and the other that at an appropriate<br/>
distance there would be a similar one for<br/>
the other foot. It is seldom that one meets<br/>
with more beautiful little cascades or water-<br/>
falls made by the bounding forth of the<br/>
brook over the steep sides of the mountain.<br/>
One would enjoy the scenery better could<br/>
he descend, as we sometimes did and walk,<br/>
than when shut up in his narrow coop—as<br/>
the howdah is called in Siamese. But the<br/>
road was so tortuous, being first on the one<br/>
side, and then on the other of the brook,<br/>
that we were compelled to ascend again in<br/>
order to cross it. Already had the tem-<br/>
perature of the atmosphere changed so much,<br/>
especially along the cool mountain heights<br/>
that a constant foot bath was not very<br/>
pleasant. Our own feelings as well as the<br/>
scar leaves of the trees in all directions,<br/>
gave indubitable evidence that we wore in<br/>
a higher latitude. About noon we reached<br/>
the summit of the mountain, and singularly<br/>
enough we found a similar gorge and brook<br/>
descending on the other side, only the<br/>
descent was neither so steep nor so ro-<br/>
mantic. About 4 P. M. we came to the<br/>
plain, and reached our sala about dark.<br/>
We expected to reach Lampoon by noon<br/>
on Wednesday. We were nearly correct<br/>
in this calculation. At twelve o'clock we<br/>
saw a large wat, which showed us that we<br/>
were again nearing the habitations of men.<br/>
The city walls soon appeared, and by two<br/>
we were in the royal sala, which serves as<br/>
the only inn for the traveler in the Laos<br/>
country. Here we must remain, asking the<br/>
indulgence of your kind readers for our slow<br/>
progress in our narrative. We will promise<br/>
to inflict but two more short articles on<br/>
their patience, in the rest of our route to<br/>
Chieng Mai and back to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours, D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
RAILWAY EXTENSION
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The scheme of uniting the Russian,<br/>
Canadian and American lines of telegraph<br/>
by way of Behring's Straits, and of so<br/>
girdling the world, is eagerly advocated in<br/>
America. Mr. Lincoln, in his Message,<br/>
stated that "an association of American<br/>
citizens" had begun their part "under<br/>
very favorable circumstances," while the<br/>
South American Republics have agreed to<br/>
make tributary lines. The submarine cable<br/>
under the Straits from Cape Prince of<br/>
Wales to Cape East in Asia, will be only<br/>
thirty miles long. Thence another subma-<br/>
rine line will run under the Gulf of Anadir,<br/>
across Kamschatka and round the Sea of<br/>
Ochorsk to the Amoor. At present the<br/>
Russian line is open direct to Irkutsk, the<br/>
capital of Siberia, on the way to the mouth<br/>
of the Amoor and a branch is working be-<br/>
tween that city—and of course St. Peters-<br/>
burg and London—and Kiachia on the<br/>
frontier of China. The extension of the<br/>
line from Kiachts to Tientain, by Ourga<br/>
and through Mongolia, is meanwhile delay-<br/>
ed. Another branch will run from the<br/>
Amoor up the Ussouri, and thence to the<br/>
Gulf of Possiet in the Sea of Japan. The<br/>
Russian part of the main line from the<br/>
Amoor to America, will be 2000 miles.<br/>
At present news from China reaches Lon-<br/>
don by Kiachta and St. Petersburg sooner<br/>
than by steamers to Sues. Were the<br/>
Government of India to agree to Colonel<br/>
Phayre's proposal to survey the country<br/>
between Tonghoo and Hong Kong, London,<br/>
Calcutta and the ports of China might be<br/>
in telegraphic communication within the<br/>
next two years. Russia is by no means<br/>
eager for the continuation of its telegraphic<br/>
lines to America, and the zeal of the Amer-<br/>
cans will very much cool, if the second<br/>
attempt to lay an Atlantic cable succeeds.<br/>
Two months ago 641 miles of the Atlantic<br/>
cable had been manufactured at East Green-<br/>
witch, and since then the work has proceod-<br/>
ed at the rate of fourteen miles a day. The<br/>
whole length required is 2300 miles. The<br/>
Great Eastern has doubtless by this time,<br/>
nearly the whole cable on board, and it is<br/>
expected to be laid before next August.<br/>
The line recommended and carefully sur-<br/>
veyed runs from the north of Scotland to<br/>
the south coast of Greenland. Science will<br/>
certainly not rest till the faint and solitary<br/>
pulsation of the first cable is developed in-<br/>
to easy and continued intercourse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subject of telegraphic extension de-<br/>
rives new importance from the fact that two<br/>
new setlements, or subordinate colonies,<br/>
have just been established on the north<br/>
coast of Australia. At the north-east point<br/>
of this island the Colony of Queensland has<br/>
planted the town of Somerset, so as to com-<br/>
mand the navigation of Torres Straits. The<br/>
new port is nine and a half degrees of latitude<br/>
north of Cardwell, the extreme port of<br/>
Queensland on the east coast. The settlers<br/>
at Somerset are prepared to supply with<br/>
fresh meat the ships which are ever passing<br/>
on this highway between Calcutta or Bom-<br/>
bay and Sydney or Melbourne. The people<br/>
of Queensland look to it as the coaling<br/>
station for the steamers they hope soon to<br/>
send to Singapore. At present the colonial<br/>
steamers ran as far north as Cardwell and<br/>
the Dutch steamers as far south as Timor.<br/>
Already the eager settlers see the telegraph<br/>
extended on both sides to their port, and<br/>
vessels calling at Somerset for orders from<br/>
the merchants of Melbourne, Sydney, Bata-<br/>
via, Singapore and India. The other colony<br/>
has been planted by the citizens of Adelaide,<br/>
whose agent discovered the spot, at the<br/>
mouth of the Adelaide river in Adam Bay,<br/>
Arnheim's Land. We fear even the most<br/>
recent maps will not enable our readers to<br/>
find the place, but it lies in the middle of<br/>
the northern coast of Australia. The ex-<br/>
pedition have found the country to be all<br/>
that they expected, except that its natives<br/>
are stalwart and pertinacious thieves above<br/>
six feet in stature. Already the new set-<br/>
tlers and the savages have had an encounter.<br/>
The latter, during the night, cut open fif-<br/>
teen bags of flour and spilled the contents<br/>
in the river, for the sake of the bags. The<br/>
Adelaide river is described as "magnificent."<br/>
It is a mile wide at the mouth, narrowing to<br/>
six hundred yards within the first twenty<br/>
miles. In one of its splendid reaches Port<br/>
Daly, called after the Governor of South<br/>
Australia, has been marked out. Ships<br/>
may discharge their cargoes at the bank in<br/>
six fathoms of water. Palms and sandle-<br/>
wood trees mark the semi-tropical character<br/>
of the climate. Good fish and water are<br/>
abundant, and the soil "is rich almost to<br/>
extravagance." The new colony promises to<br/>
become a great cotton and timber country,<br/>
drawing on China for its labour and on In-<br/>
dia for many of its supplies. Through such<br/>
colonies as these, and by the establishment<br/>
of a such a commercial and currency system<br/>
as will allow the gold to flow directly to<br/>
India, the connection between our Eastern<br/>
and Australian empires promises to be most<br/>
intimate and valuable.-—Friend of India,<br/>
February 9.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Iroquois, which leaves our Harbour<br/>
this day is not a new vessel, having been<br/>
built before the war ; but she has been<br/>
mounted with some of the most modern<br/>
ordnance. She carries 6 broadside 32<br/>
pounders and two parrot guns—one throw-<br/>
ing 100 lb shot on the maindeck before the<br/>
mainmast, and one throwing about 60 lb<br/>
shot mounted on the forecastle. She has<br/>
powerful engines and has steamed 13 knots.<br/>
She is commanded by Captain Rodgers U.<br/>
S. N.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Straits Times.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Why is Sherman the most gallant Gener-<br/>
al in the army? Because he rushed across<br/>
the continent to save Ames.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why are the English the worst judges of<br/>
cattle in the world? Because the Pope sent<br/>
them a bull and they thought it was<br/>
a bore.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kyam Ali deceased, Notice is hereby<br/>
given, that all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands against the estate<br/>
of Kyam Ali, Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th of February<br/>
last, intestate, are hereby required to send<br/>
the particulars in writing of their claims to<br/>
the undersigned the Administrator, on or<br/>
before the 31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said administrator<br/>
will proceed to distribute the estate and<br/>
effects of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having regard only<br/>
to such claims of which he shall then have<br/>
had notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dated at the British Consulate
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Siam. March 14th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(s.d.) Thomas George Knox
H. B. M. Consul
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The interest and responsibility
OF MR. J.W. THIES
in our firm ceased on the 31st
of December 1864.
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Bangkok, 1st January 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 1ST TO 12ST APRIL 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>4</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>6</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assault & battery</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Highway Robbery of The 53</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do do " 10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Throwing Stones.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting the Police</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slaves</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Abusive Language</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Drunken soldier with side arms</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Creating a disturbance in a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>brothel</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_8_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Royal Highness Krom. Hluang<br/>
Wongsa, has been confined to his bed-room<br/>
more than a month by a phlegmonous sore<br/>
on his side, which, it has been feared, might<br/>
prove to be malignant. We are happy to<br/>
inform all his numerous European friends <br/>
that His Royal Highness is now convales-<br/>
cent, with every prospect of a quick<br/>
recovery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His R. Highness being unable to visit<br/>
his elder relatives according to custom<br/>
on Song-kran holidays, for the purpose of<br/>
sprinkling and blessing them with conse-<br/>
crated water, deputised his beautiful daught-<br/>
er of seven years of age to make the calls<br/>
and perform the ceremonies in his name.<br/>
This she did having her person richly <br/>
decorated with gold, diamonds and other<br/>
precious stones in the form of necklaces,<br/>
bracelets and anklets.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This city was favored with a pleasant<br/>
shower of rain on the night of the 11th<br/>
inst, which we hope and trust has broken<br/>
the intense drought with which the whole<br/>
land has suffered for a period of more than<br/>
five months.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_8_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AN ENIGMA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I am composed of 23 letters.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 7: 21: 22: is an inhabitant of the earth.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 15: 6: 19: 9: is a small quadruped.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 16: 6: 14: 21: 12: is a power known even in Siam.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 17: 9: 19: is a personal pronoun.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 12: 5: 3: 4: 13: are increasing in Siam.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 8: 16: 10: 11: 20: 16: 9: 17: is the name of a<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}great warrior.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 1: 21: 19: 18: have caused great suffering on<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}the earth.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 7: 2: 10: 14: are domestic animals.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 16: 5: 21: 12 is a country in Asia.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 1: 6: 4: 9: 13: is a country in Europe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 20: 6: 16: 8: 18: 19: 13: abound in Siam.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 10: 21: 22: 6: 3: 18: are indispensable to the<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Siamese.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 7: 11: 16: 5: 10: We understand is improving<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}the Morals of the people.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}My whole is a famous modern general.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Value Of Wilmington.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
From Home News.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The correspondent concludes his remarks<br/>
on the value of earthwork defences founded<br/>
on the successful resistance offered, as well<br/>
as his advice to England to weigh well the<br/>
advisibility of defensive stone forts, read<br/>
rather strangely after the second successful<br/>
attack, the accounts of which have already<br/>
been published. His introductory remarks<br/>
on the value of Wilmington to the Con-<br/>
federates may be of some value, as showing<br/>
what is thought or put forward by the Con-<br/>
federates themselves by way of encourage-<br/>
ment:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those of your readers who take interest<br/>
in American affairs have long been aware<br/>
of the alleged importance to the Confederates<br/>
of the retention of Wilmington. In spite of<br/>
much pretended mystery in Richmond a-<br/>
bout the incomings and outgoings of<br/>
blockade-defying vessels connected with<br/>
this port, I have reason to know that the<br/>
fullest and most accurate information is<br/>
week after week in the possession of Mr.<br/>
Lincoln and of his navy about every ves-<br/>
sel which leaves or enters Wilmington, a-<br/>
bout the names and circumstances of every<br/>
English or Confederate merchant or com-<br/>
pany connected with blockade-running ven-<br/>
tures, and about the sentiments which pre-<br/>
vail in the streets of this filthy little entrepot.<br/>
In regard to the tone and sentiment of most<br/>
of the population which has been attracted<br/>
to Wilmington as vultures to the carcass,<br/>
it is not necessary for me now to say more<br/>
than that it is widely different from that<br/>
which animates General Lee and his noble<br/>
army. But I may be permitted to express<br/>
a passing opinion that if the abundant in-<br/>
ternal resources of the Confederacy were<br/>
available wherever they are wanted—in<br/>
other words, if the railroad transportation<br/>
between Georgia and Virginia was as am-<br/>
ple and as well regulated as between Illinois<br/>
and Washington—it would be rather a bles-<br/>
sing than otherwise to the Confederates if<br/>
the port of Wilmington were shortly closed.<br/>
So long as the war continues there will be<br/>
a demand for muskets, nitre, medicines,<br/>
blankets, army clothing, and shoes, notwith-<br/>
standing the abundant introduction of those<br/>
articles which has already taken place; but<br/>
it is doubtful whether a sufficient supply<br/>
could not be stocked in through the num-<br/>
berless creeks and rivers which intersect<br/>
the 3000 or 4000 miles of seacoast between<br/>
the Rio Grande and Chesapeake Bay.<br/>
These rivers are now becoming well known<br/>
to the blockade-running captains, and, come<br/>
what may, whether Wilmington or Charles-<br/>
ton fall or not, it is absurd to think that the<br/>
coast of Secessia can ever be hermetically<br/>
sealed. But in the existing decline of Con-<br/>
federate virtue, and under the painfulness<br/>
and weary exhaustion of this strife, could<br/>
the Confederates stand the moral dis-<br/>
couragement entailed by the loss of Wil-<br/>
mington? Your readers may answer the<br/>
question for themselves: but if Confederate<br/>
virtue and staunchness, like that of General<br/>
Lee, were equal to the shock, I believe that<br/>
before six months had passed it would be<br/>
found in a dozen ways that the loss of Wil-<br/>
mington was a blessing in disguise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The correspondent of the "New York<br/>
Tribune," writing from Fort Fisher on Jan.<br/>
16, says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dead of yesterday's battle are strewn<br/>
over the fort in every conceivable attitude<br/>
of agony and horror. Some have been<br/>
paralyzed by death in the act of holding<br/>
and sighting their rifles, their pieces having<br/>
afterwards fallen from their relaxed hands.<br/>
Others lie with their skulls shattered and<br/>
the brain exposed to full view. Some wear<br/>
a calm and pleasant expression on their<br/>
faces, while other countenances are stamped<br/>
in most excruciating agony. At the foot<br/>
of the interior slope of the sea wall there<br/>
are many large guns, which have been dis-<br/>
mounted and tumbled down. Among these<br/>
are entangled rebel dead in almost every<br/>
shape and position, some standing on their<br/>
feet and others on their heads, all glaring<br/>
and grinning ghastly alike upon the passer<br/>
by.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Canada.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The conduct of the Southern refugees in<br/>
Canada has been denounced in the Canadian<br/>
Parliament, and a determination has been<br/>
expressed to stop the abuse of asylum. A<br/>
commission has been appointed to inquire<br/>
into the release of the St. Alban's raiders<br/>
and the conduct of Judge Coursol, who has<br/>
been suspended by the government. The<br/>
Finance Minister has presenbed estimates,<br/>
including a sum of 50,000 dollars to make<br/>
good the money returned to the St. Alban's<br/>
raiders, which has been claimed by the<br/>
Federal Statas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Toronto Leader" asserts that the<br/>
British Government has ordered 30 gun-<br/>
boats to be sent from England to the lakes<br/>
as soon as navigation is open. The "Toron-<br/>
to Globe," however, denies the truth of this<br/>
statement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Toronto Court has denied a writ of<br/>
habeas Corpus in the case of Lieutenant<br/>
Birley, and has unanimously decided that<br/>
he should be given up to the Federal<br/>
government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PRUSSIA 
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies on Feb.<br/>
8 the Minister of War introduced a bill altering and<br/>
supplementing by 20 paragraphs the law of the 3rd<br/>
of September, 1814, upon the obligation to military<br/>
service in Prussia. Under the proposed new regul-<br/>
ations the whole term of military service is reduced<br/>
from 19 to 16 years, of which the first seven years<br/>
are to be served in the regular standing army. Of<br/>
these seven years, the first three must be served with<br/>
a regiment, and the four following years in the re-<br/>
serve. During the next four years those having ful-<br/>
filled the above terms of service will be liable under<br/>
the first call of the Landwehr, and during the re-<br/>
maining five years to the second call. The first<br/>
division of the Landwehr will only be called out<br/>
when the country is in serious danger. Special laws<br/>
will regulate the service in the Landwehr and in the<br/>
navy. In introducing this bill the Minister of War,<br/>
Lieutenant-General Von Roon, said he hoped that<br/>
the wish of the country for reconciliation between<br/>
the Diet and the government might find an echo in<br/>
the House. The government, although maintaining<br/>
its project for the reorganization of the army, was<br/>
willing to renounce the execution of the original<br/>
scheme in its full extent. A cordial agreement upon<br/>
the treatment of the pending military question could<br/>
only be obtained by a mutual understanding on the<br/>
points at issue between the government and the Diet.<br/>
The minister said in conclusion—"The government<br/>
has this object in view in introducing the present<br/>
bill, and is convinced of the necessity of all army<br/>
reform being effected on a Parliamentary basis."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian government, in order to carry out<br/>
its hobby of a naval force, has preferred a request<br/>
to the Chamber of Deputies for authority to contract<br/>
a loan of £2,000,000, to be used in the construction<br/>
of a fleet. This permission granted, little doubt<br/>
need be entertained as to the disposition of the<br/>
Duchies.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_9_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An Irishman made a sudden rush into a druggist's<br/>
shop, took from his pocket a soda-water bottle filled<br/>
with some liquor, and handing it across the counter<br/>
exclaimed, "There, doctor, sniff that, will you?"<br/>
The "doctor" did, and pronounced the liquor to be<br/>
genuine whiskey. "Thank you, doctor," said the<br/>
Irishman. "Hand it to the again, if you please."<br/>
The "doctor" again did as directed, and asked what<br/>
he meant. "Ooh, thin," said Pat, "if you will have<br/>
it, the priest told me not to drink any of this unless<br/>
I got it from the doctor."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_9_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r12d">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. APRIL 15th 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r144">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Gun boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Mar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Luna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Richen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">340</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hainan</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Capill</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Mackay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">816</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Meklong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Orten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">P. of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Frendenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r173">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. APRIL 15th 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r174">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Offdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">333</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bentick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Chow Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schroder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Keng Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Düppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eclipse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Camman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">F. or Charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">381</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Janssen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Aictorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Neam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Johnstone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Sem</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">650</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moulter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">397</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Gun boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">...</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">132</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Boon Seng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Holinqucst</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">716</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Koefoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">337</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacon Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Loolhee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seng Thai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Deinsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nai Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hide</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Lay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Habercroft</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Pon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Berhun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Koo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ty Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">674</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pulaskie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Ma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Grieg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">J Bush</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
