---
linkTitle: 'May 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 16th'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 9
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK TUESDAY MAY 16TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO.  9</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANGKOK MAY 16th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been favored with a note from<br/>
His Excellency Chow Phya Sri Surij Wong,<br/>
stating that M. Aubaret H. I. M. Consul at<br/>
this place had addressed a note to him,<br/>
inquiring if the Siamese Government sent<br/>
us on the Treaty lately concluded between<br/>
France and Siam, and which appeared in<br/>
the last issue of the Recorder. He also<br/>
requests that we will inform him for the<br/>
gratification of M. Aubaret, by what means<br/>
we obtained the Treaty. This of course<br/>
we can not do. The Siamese Government<br/>
did not send us the Treaty but had they<br/>
done so, they had a perfect right to do it,<br/>
and neither M. Aubaret, nor any one else<br/>
had any business to ask them why they<br/>
did it. We would like to see this people<br/>
manifest for once at least, a little more of<br/>
that essential element rather vulgarly de-<br/>
nominated "back bone." Their prompt<br/>
answer to M. Aubaret should have been<br/>
that they did not furnish the Treaty but<br/>
had it been published at their request they<br/>
had a perfect right to do so, without any<br/>
breach of etiquette. After all the teaching<br/>
they have had, this people have failed to<br/>
learn the important lesson, that the "bark<br/>
is often worse than the bite." True the<br/>
Treaty has not yet been ratified by France,<br/>
but there is not the slightest doubt but she<br/>
will speedily ratify it. She will readily<br/>
ratify any treaty that will give her control<br/>
of a kingdom at so little expense. It is<br/>
therefore presuming too much for M. Au-<br/>
baret to suppose that the community here<br/>
are to remain in ignorance whilst the Treaty<br/>
is going to France and returning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We publish also in this issue another<br/>
treaty concluded between the French Con-<br/>
sul and Hluang Bawriboon Soon-ra Kawn,<br/>
the Spirit Farmer. This appeared in the<br/>
Siamese of our last issue, and was trans-<br/>
lated and sot up for the English, but by<br/>
some means it was overlooked until too late<br/>
to insert it, and it consquenlty failed to<br/>
appear. Taken from the Siamese of our<br/>
last it has since appeared in another place,<br/>
and we only now insert it because we think<br/>
it should be preserved as a diplomatic<br/>
curiosity. We don't wonder that the authors<br/>
of such a concern should desire to throw a<br/>
vail over it to keep it from the public. So<br/>
far as can be ascertained it had already<br/>
gone into effect, as far as it was possible<br/>
for such a thing to take effect, and was be-<br/>
ing copied and sent around to the different<br/>
spirit dealers. There is no doubt but the<br/>
authors of this treaty thought that it could<br/>
be a private affair between France and Siam,<br/>
without effecting other treaty powers.<br/>
Mr. Hluang Dawriboon must have been only<br/>
a passive instrument, as those very much<br/>
higher in authority had a "finger in the<br/>
pie." It of course amounts to nothing, but<br/>
did it amount to any thing the same ben-<br/>
efits would also accrue to the other treaty<br/>
powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICAN GENERALS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 73)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
W. S. Rosecrans bid fair at one time to<br/>
be a star of the first magnitude in the<br/>
galaxy of American generals. Before the<br/>
rebellion broke out he had resigned his<br/>
commission in the army, and retired to<br/>
scientific pursuits. But like many others<br/>
when the Old Flag was fired at, he rushed<br/>
to the rescue. He was placed under Mc-<br/>
Clellan in Western Virginia and when the<br/>
latter was called to Washington, Rosecrans<br/>
was left in command. He did up his work<br/>
there admirably, and after a short time<br/>
was sent west to Grant's command. While<br/>
under Grant he gained two signal victories,<br/>
one at luka, and another at Corinth. For<br/>
these he was raised to the rank of Major<br/>
General of volunteers. When it was de-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
cided to remove Gen. Buell from the com-<br/>
mand of the army of the Cumberland, Rose-<br/>
crans was promoted to that command. Af-<br/>
ter taking command he spent some time in<br/>
preparations, and then met the rebel army<br/>
under Bragg, at Murfreesboro Tennessee,<br/>
and after five days hard fighting he com-<br/>
pletely routed the rebels. During those<br/>
days of fighting he displayed great ability,<br/>
and great bravery. He rode into the heat<br/>
of the battle and showed a masterly ability,<br/>
in massing his troops just where they were<br/>
needed. He has few superiors any where<br/>
as a mathematician. His march from Mur-<br/>
freesboro to Chattanooga was a perfect<br/>
triumph. He also forced an evacuation<br/>
of that place with very little fighting. He<br/>
advanced his army beyond Chattanooga to<br/>
Chicamauga creek. Gen. Lee having a lit-<br/>
tle leasure in Virginia dispatched two divis-<br/>
ions of his army to join Bragg and crush<br/>
Rosecrans. They attacked Rosecrans at<br/>
Chicamauga and well nigh succeeded in<br/>
their designs. The skill and bravery exhib-<br/>
ited by him at Murfreesboro appeared on<br/>
this occasion to forsake him, and he left<br/>
the field without knowing whether the bat-<br/>
tle was gained or lost. Had it not been for<br/>
Gen. Thomas the army would have been<br/>
destroyed. When that department was in<br/>
cluded in Grant's command, Rosecrans was<br/>
removed and placed in command in Mis-<br/>
souri, but even there he was slow and has<br/>
lately been shelved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
None of the American generals has risen<br/>
more slowly, and at the same time more<br/>
surely than Lieut. Gen. U. S. Grant. He<br/>
came from that working class, which has<br/>
furnished the United States, most of her a-<br/>
blest men in all departments. About one<br/>
hundred years ago two brothers named<br/>
Grant, came from Scotland to the New<br/>
World. One of them settled in Westmore-<br/>
land county, Pennsylvania, where the<br/>
father of the present Lieut. Gen. was born<br/>
in 1794 and received the name of Jesse.<br/>
In 1799 the family moved west and set-<br/>
tled in Ohio. At that time not a single<br/>
state had yet been formed of all that vast<br/>
region lying between the Alleghany and<br/>
Rocky mountains. It formed a vast hunt-<br/>
ing ground for the Indian. The great<br/>
Tecumseh was a leading chief, and bloody<br/>
battles were fought around the dwelling<br/>
of the Grants. In 1806 when the Western<br/>
Reserve became partially settled, the Grants<br/>
removed to Deerfield where the grand fath-<br/>
er of the present general died, leaving his<br/>
father Jesse an orphan boy aged eleven<br/>
years, with no one to guide or assist him<br/>
in his way through the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He soon discovered however that he<br/>
must get his living by labor, and it was<br/>
necessary to select some calling that would<br/>
pay him best. He therefore learned the<br/>
tanning, which he followed until sixty years<br/>
old when he retired. Inured to pioneer life<br/>
he carved his way alone to an honorable<br/>
position in society and wealth. In 1821<br/>
Jesse Grant married Miss Hannah Simpson<br/>
and they settled at Point Pleasant, in<br/>
Clermont County, Ohio, on the Ohio River.<br/>
Here on April 27th 1822 a son was born<br/>
in an humble frame cottage still standing,<br/>
and valued before the War at about $300.<br/>
The boy's maternal grand-mother was<br/>
quite a reader of history, and had taken<br/>
quite a fancy to Ulysses the great Grecian<br/>
General who defeated the Trojans by his<br/>
strategy of the wooden horse, and she desir-<br/>
ed to have her grandson called Ulysses.<br/>
His grand-father wanted him called Hiram,<br/>
so the two names were united and he was<br/>
called Hiram Ulysses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But when his name was handed into Con-<br/>
gress for his appointment to West Point,<br/>
by some mistake it was handed in Ulysses<br/>
and has remained so ever since. Many<br/>
stories are now told of his boyhood which,<br/>
whether true or not would never have been<br/>
thought of again, had he not attained to his<br/>
present position. It is certain however<br/>
that during his early boyhood he exhibited<br/>
nothing very brilliant, but was one of that<br/>
faithful diligent kind that slowly and surely<br/>
make their mark. He worked at the tan-<br/>
ning with his father, and it is said that he<br/>
was accustomed to rise early in the morning<br/>
make the fires,—-milk his mother's cows,<br/>
and then go to work in the yard until<br/>
breakfast time. An incident is related of<br/>
his boyhood which illustrates his present<br/>
character to a great degree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His father one day desired some sticks<br/>
of hewn timber for a certain purpose, and<br/>
told Ulysses to harness the team, and drive<br/>
to the woods, where he would find the<br/>
timber, and men waiting to load it. The<br/>
boy ever fond of driving was soon on the<br/>
spot where he found the timber but no men.<br/>
What was he to do? Most boys would have<br/>
gone home again but such was not the case<br/>
of the tanner boy. Looking around he saw<br/>
a tree which had fallen against another so<br/>
as to form an inclined plain. He saw at<br/>
once he could make the horses do the part<br/>
of the workmen. So he hitched the team<br/>
to each of the logs and drew them near the<br/>
inclined plain. Then drawing them piece<br/>
by piece up the inclined plain and balanc-<br/>
ing them around, he managed to draw them<br/>
on the wagon and drove home in triumph.<br/>
The only school advantages Ulysses had<br/>
until seventeen years of age, were four or<br/>
five months of each year in the district<br/>
school, spending the other months of the<br/>
year in labor.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRENCH IN COCHIN CHINA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Translated from Revue des Deux Mondes
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The public feelings and opinions in these<br/>
latter years have been freely expressed and<br/>
are adverse to distant expeditions. After<br/>
out intervention in China, our war with Mexi-<br/>
co, and our occupation of Lower Cochin<br/>
China, the public became alarmed at the<br/>
great expenses that these operations<br/>
brought on the finances of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Questions were made as to the National<br/>
Interest, whether they improved our in<br/>
fluence, and if the attainment of them would<br/>
secure us from the embarrassments which<br/>
were made in obtaining them. It is no<br/>
doubt the duty of great Governments to<br/>
originate great designs and to show that<br/>
they can accomplish them, thereby proving<br/>
to the world that they have the power and<br/>
resources to do so, but that they may be of<br/>
use they should be well timed, so that they<br/>
may not be followed by embarrassments to<br/>
the contrary. If this is doubted we have<br/>
only to look at what is now passing. The<br/>
capture of Algiers was a glorious Legacy<br/>
of the Restoration of 1830. Those who un-<br/>
dertook it were not aware that France was<br/>
engaged in a Revolution which gave rise<br/>
to all the difficulties that ensued to its<br/>
Government both internally and exter-<br/>
nally and which new establishments have<br/>
always to encounter. We had for a long<br/>
time to support the military operations<br/>
which the resistance of the Arabs neces-<br/>
sitated, and to display our strength to<br/>
those ill disposed European Powers whom<br/>
we had to oppose. No one can imagine<br/>
the embarrassment these caused to our<br/>
general politics, when we had to found<br/>
an independent Belgie, and later to settle<br/>
the Eastern question and to resume our<br/>
proper stand in the European States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From its position as a great European<br/>
Power, France is more obliged to have its<br/>
forces united than to have them scattered,<br/>
and to fulfil her mission she ought ever to<br/>
be ready to meet the eventualities of Con-<br/>
tinental politics. To be wanting in these<br/>
duties, in the present state of Europe, would<br/>
be a folly which would not only compro-<br/>
mise the renown of our statesmen, but also<br/>
that which is of more importance to us, the<br/>
dignity and power of our country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government however so far from be-<br/>
ing appalled, met those difficulties, and al-<br/>
though they were difficult for the ministry<br/>
they were not without glory, and gained<br/>
the good will of the public, thus becoming<br/>
Popular, they soon were National. Thus<br/>
one of the greatest achievements of the<br/>
Government of 1830 shows us what can be<br/>
gained by undertaking foreign expeditions,<br/>
with liberal discussions and publicity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Probably some persons will be more con-<br/>
vinced after reading what has been effected<br/>
under very different conditions—That of<br/>
the expedition of Cochin China.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1858 the war of China, where our flag<br/>
floated with that of Great Britian, was the<br/>
first phase accomplished. The forts of Pee-<br/>
ho fell to the allied Powers, and the Treaty<br/>
of Tien-tein was signed. Peace with the<br/>
Celestial Empire appeared assured and no<br/>
one could suppose that the Pekin Court<br/>
would have by its bad faith provoked a re-<br/>
newal of hostilities, and by its conduct<br/>
rendered it imperiously necessary a few<br/>
months after to carry hostilities into the<br/>
very capital. It was between the signing<br/>
of these treaties, that the French thought<br/>
of the wrongs they had to settle with the<br/>
Kingdom of Annam. The Court of Hue.<br/>
had not only persecuted most cruelly the<br/>
inhabitants who had become Christians,<br/>
but also the foreign missionaries, without<br/>
respect to their Nationality. Mons Diaz<br/>
Bishop of Tonquin after suffering a long<br/>
imprisonment, died on the 20th July 1857<br/>
under cruel tortures, a martyr. The French<br/>
and Spanish missionaries spread over Co-<br/>
chin China, had appealed to Paris and<br/>
Madrid, making sad complaints, and claim-<br/>
ed the protection of the two Catholic Gov-<br/>
ernments, more for the religion to which<br/>
they were devoted, than for their lives<br/>
which they were ready to sacrifice, follow-<br/>
ing the example of their glorious Bishop.<br/>
We had several times made applications to<br/>
the Annam Government and demanded re-<br/>
parations for what had passed and guaran-<br/>
tees for the future, but they refused to ne-<br/>
gotiate with us, and fired at the vessel on<br/>
board of which were the French representa-<br/>
tives. It was under these circumstances<br/>
that orders were given to Admiral Rigault<br/>
de Genouilly, who commanded our naval<br/>
station in China, to proceed with his ships<br/>
against the Annamites and oblige them to<br/>
give us satisfaction. The Spaniards from Man-<br/>
illa joined our expedition with a contingent<br/>
of troops.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not our wish to enter into any details<br/>
of the military operations prolonged from<br/>
1858 to 1863 under the command of Ad-<br/>
mirals Rigault de Genonilly, Page, Charner,<br/>
and Bonard, who successively commanded<br/>
them. What imports us to know is not<br/>
how the war was carried on, but what<br/>
politics guided our movements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Had Admiral Rigault de Genouilly pre-<br/>
cise instructions? Was he aware of what<br/>
he was to attain! Was the idea conceived<br/>
in Paris of profiting by the occasion thus<br/>
afforded, by the insolent obstinacy of the<br/>
King of Annam, to take from him a part of<br/>
his Kingdom, and there found an establish-<br/>
ment under the sovereignity of France!<br/>
And if such resolutions were made, had we<br/>
considered the difficulties and obstacles<br/>
which we might meet? Had we foreseen<br/>
how far our efforts were to be carried, and<br/>
the importance of the sacrifices which ac-<br/>
company such an enterprize?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The documents that we have consulted<br/>
differ in the answers which should be given<br/>
to these questions. Some say that our<br/>
Naval forces were only to go to the coasts<br/>
of Cochin China, and there to give a milit-<br/>
ary demonstration as a moral support of<br/>
the persecuted missionary cause, and to<br/>
get the Annam Government, to make a<br/>
convention guaranteeing the free propaga-<br/>
tion of the Catholic Religion, and the rights<br/>
of humanity. Other documents on the con-<br/>
trary would have us believe that the orders<br/>
given to Admiral Rigault de Genonilly,<br/>
were the result of long reflection and tended<br/>
to carry out a project wisely conceived. To<br/>
take a position in the Extreme East would<br/>
be renewing our old traditions, and make<br/>
us faithful to a National Policy transmitted<br/>
under the different Revolutions which have<br/>
taken place in France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What then was this National policy? and<br/>
what were these traditions? It is remem-<br/>
bered that in 1787 George Pegnean de<br/>
Behain, Bishop of Adras after having saved<br/>
from the civil wars, Gra-long, the lawful<br/>
inheritor of the throne of Anam, came to<br/>
solieit the aid of the Court of Versailles,<br/>
for his Royal Protege, and that in the<br/>
quality of Minister of this claimant, he<br/>
signed with M. Montorin the Minister for<br/>
Foreign Affairs of Louis XVI, a treaty by<br/>
which the King of Cochin China, in conse-<br/>
quence of having placed at his disposal an<br/>
auxilliary corps, ceded to France the Pen-<br/>
insula of Tourane, and the island of Pulo<br/>
Condor, and gave to our commerce and<br/>
to our Mercantile Marine conditions that<br/>
no other nations or states enjoyed. The<br/>
Bishop of Adras gained by this treaty<br/>
great authority, and being assisted by<br/>
several Frenchmen whose names are<br/>
not forgotten in Cochin China, succeeded<br/>
after many adverse vicissitudes, in placing<br/>
his Protege Gra-long in triumph. Did<br/>
these however become of any impor-<br/>
tance? One thing is certain, that in 1857<br/>
the Government submitted the treaty of the<br/>
Bishop of Adras and M. Montmorin to a<br/>
commission, who after a long and patient<br/>
investigation, were forced to admit that<br/>
France being taken up and engaged by the<br/>
events of the Revolution of 1789, did not<br/>
carry out the principles of the treaty, and<br/>
in consequence they ought to consider it<br/>
null and void. It was also recollected that<br/>
in 1843 Admiral Cecil accompanying the<br/>
mission of M. Lu Grené, was ordered in<br/>
concert with him to search in the extreme<br/>
East, for a place where under the shelter of<br/>
our own flag, our commerce and our marine<br/>
should find permanant protection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The instructions of M. Guizot then min-<br/>
ister of Foreign Affairs are cited, who said,<br/>
"It is not for France to be wanting in that<br/>
part of the world, where already the other<br/>
Nations of Europe are established. In case<br/>
of ship wreck our vessels ought not to be<br/>
without a place to repair, and not be ob-<br/>
lidged to go to the Portuguese Colony of<br/>
Macao, the English port of Hong Kong, or<br/>
the arsenal of Caviéto in the Spanish island<br/>
of Luaon.” These instructions show great<br/>
prudence, in excluding by the selection to<br/>
be made, full possession of an extensive ter-<br/>
ritory, which would bring us in constant<br/>
quarrels with these numerous populations. <br/>
They recommend to give the preference to<br/>
an island where it would be easy to remain<br/>
in peace, away from all hostile neighbors,<br/>
in a favorable situation for health and re-<br/>
victualling. M. Lagrone and Admiral Cocile,<br/>
in execution of these projects, cast their<br/>
eyes on the Isle of Basilan, situated near<br/>
Mandano, at the extremity of the Sooloo<br/>
Archipelago, they landed a force there and<br/>
obtained a cession of it from the Sultan of<br/>
Sooloo, but immediately the Governor of<br/>
the Phillippines protested, and claimed it as<br/>
part of the Spanish territories, which was<br/>
backed by the cabinet of Madrid. M.<br/>
Guizot was engaged at the time with the<br/>
very difficult and delicate negotiations of<br/>
the Spanish marriage, and considering it<br/>
best to drop the lesser question for the<br/>
greater, resigned for the time the contested<br/>
subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such are the two explanations that are<br/>
given to us in regard to our first operations<br/>
in Cochin China. Without giving our<br/>
opinion on the one or the other, it is to be<br/>
believed that concerning the acts of Ad-<br/>
miral Rigaulte de Genonilly, first our aims<br/>
were not very ambitious. The Admiral<br/>
led the force under him to the bay of<br/>
Tourane, took possession of and destroyed<br/>
the two forts which defended it, and be-<br/>
came master of the Peninsula of Champ<br/>
Callao. His intention was to attack Hue<br/>
the capital of Cochin China, distant about<br/>
15 leagues from Tourane, and 6 leagues<br/>
from the sea, and to get there by the river<br/>
which was obstructed by sandy shoals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The brave Admiral wished to take his<br/>
artillery up this river to Hue, and compel<br/>
the King Tu-due to make a treaty, but the<br/>
N. E. Monsoon then blowing rendered this<br/>
hazardous, and an expedition by land with<br/>
the small force under him was not practica-<br/>
ble. Soon he formed another project. He<br/>
was surrounded by European Jesuit mis-<br/>
sionaries, who although after so long a so-<br/>
journ in the country had but vague illusive<br/>
ideas of their power with the natives. They<br/>
confidently told him, that the Annamites<br/>
were so vexed and oppressed that they on-<br/>
ly waited the appearance of our forces when<br/>
they would rise in a body and receive us<br/>
as liberators. The combats that we had at<br/>
Tourane, ought to have guarded us from<br/>
giving any credit to such language; but they<br/>
persuaded the Admiral that on another<br/>
part of the coast we sould meet with a dif-<br/>
ferent reception, saying that the christian<br/>
population was spread about Saigon, and<br/>
we should be assisted by them. The salub-<br/>
rity of lower Cochin China, the numberless<br/>
runs of water, the facility of blockading the<br/>
city and cutting off the supplies of rice, ren-<br/>
dered the attempt altogether propitious,<br/>
and determined the Admiral to abandon<br/>
Tourane and to direct his steps towards<br/>
Lower Cochin China, which he did on the<br/>
7th Feb. 1859.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We did not find as we advanced the pro-<br/>
mised auxiliaries, as that part of the popula-<br/>
tion who had become christians were a<br/>
miserable set, without influence being both<br/>
enervated and abject; and who trembled be-<br/>
fore the mandarins; whereas the Annamites<br/>
unconverted, formed the majority of the<br/>
population; and so attached to their chiefs,<br/>
having the same faith and ideas from the<br/>
lowest to the highest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Attached to their usages with great<br/>
submission, and having from their infancy<br/>
been taught to consider Europeans as the<br/>
most barbarious race, they were from the<br/>
first hostile and determined to consider us<br/>
as invaders of their rights.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Saigon was defended by two forts and a<br/>
formidable citadel built in the last century,<br/>
by the Frenchmen who accompanied the<br/>
Bishop of Adras. The runs of water sup-<br/>
plying the city were guarded by foots and<br/>
stockades, secured with iron bars, and defen-<br/>
ded by batteries. The Admiral did not<br/>
hesitate to attack these obstacles, and un-<br/>
der his vigorous command, our soldiers al-<br/>
though strongly resisted, soon succeeded<br/>
in destroying them. These events were<br/>
accomplished without having the least ef-<br/>
fect upon the Annamite Government.<br/>
Their army fell back and concentrated about<br/>
four miles from Saigon, at Ke-hoa, in an<br/>
attitude that showed their losses had not<br/>
discouraged them. At the same time, on<br/>
the side of Touran, Tu-due's troops made<br/>
an offensive movement, and made at the<br/>
mouth of the river, to the South of the Bay,<br/>
a series of works for the prevention of all<br/>
attempts by troops against that position.<br/>
The Admiral therefore had to give battle<br/>
in the Province of Saigon, and before Tour-<br/>
ane to force the Cochin Chinese to fight,<br/>
retreating on their capital. Once more we<br/>
had to abandon Touran, a part of the force<br/>
being recalled to China, to undertake that<br/>
second Campaign which carried our victo-<br/>
rious forces to Pekin, while we occupied<br/>
Saigon with 700 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During two years, until the conclusion<br/>
of peace with the Celestial Empire, this<br/>
handful of Frenchmen kept off the Annamite<br/>
army, they were obliged to be shut up in<br/>
the town, and cut off from all communic-<br/>
ations. Vice Admiral Page in the inter-<br/>
val arrived from France, to succeed Ad-<br/>
miral Rigault de Genouilly in the command.<br/>
He knew the wishes of the French Govern-<br/>
ment. There were no ideas at that time of<br/>
conquest, or of forming in Cochin China a<br/>
great establishment, although it is wished<br/>
to be believed, since that the orders to that<br/>
officer were most modest. They permitted<br/>
him to propose to the Court of Hue a<br/>
treaty without pecuniary indemnities, and<br/>
without cession of territory, but to stipulate<br/>
liberty for our Missionaries to teach their<br/>
religion in such a manner as not to trouble<br/>
the Annamite administration, and also to<br/>
stipulate for the residence of French Con-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
suls in three ports of Cochin China, and an<br/>
"Envoy Charge 'd' affaire" from France<br/>
every three years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Negotiations were commenced on these<br/>
bases, but the plenipotentiary of Tu-duc<br/>
raised all kinds of difficulties to prevent<br/>
the treaty being signed, which compromi-<br/>
ed him in the eyes of his Government, al-<br/>
though they were convinced that we would<br/>
be glad to leave and go to sea without<br/>
striking a blow. This equivocal state ex-<br/>
isted when the peace with China allowed<br/>
Admiral Charneir, who then commanded<br/>
our naval forces, to take a part of them to<br/>
Cochin China. He recommenced hostili-<br/>
ties, blockaded Saigon and took possession<br/>
of all the Province of Gra-duih, which is<br/>
the capital, and a short time after of the<br/>
Province of Mitho.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A second negotiation than ensued, but<br/>
without any better success than the first, so<br/>
Admiral Bonard who then commanded,<br/>
continued the warfare, and forwarded the<br/>
conquests, extending them to a third Pro-<br/>
vince that of Bien-hoa By the force of<br/>
circumstances (it said in an Official Re-<br/>
port) the end first proposed had been<br/>
singularly overpast, and we became con-<br/>
querors when we only went simply to re-<br/>
dress grievances.<br/>
    These repeated attacks at length disquiet-<br/>
ed Tu-duc and he decided to ask for peace.<br/>
Admiral Bonard seized the occasion so long<br/>
looked for, but still being in doubt he sent<br/>
the steamer "Forbin" to Hué, to be assured<br/>
of the disposition of the Annamite Govern-<br/>
ment, whether they were serious, or only<br/>
wished to gain time to bring supplies of<br/>
rice into the capital. The King being<br/>
convinced that he had no way of carrying<br/>
on the old way of negotiating, charged the<br/>
ministers of the Rites, and of his Armies to<br/>
go to Saigon, where on the 5th June 1862<br/>
they signed a treaty with the representa-<br/>
tives of the Emperor of the French. We<br/>
subjoin the principal part of this treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subjects of France and Spain can<br/>
exercise the Christian religion in the king-<br/>
dom of Annam, and the subjects of that<br/>
kingdom without distinction, who may de-<br/>
sire to embrace the Christian religion, are<br/>
allowed to do so without restraint, but no<br/>
one is to be forced to embrace Christianity<br/>
against their will.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The three Provinces, Bien-hoa, Gra-<br/>
duih, and Duih-tuong, (Mitho) complete,<br/>
and the island af Pulo Condor, are entirely<br/>
ceded with full sovereignty to the Emperor<br/>
of the French.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The merchants of France are freely al-<br/>
lowed to trade, and send their ships into<br/>
the great river of Cambodia, and into all<br/>
the branches of that river, and the same<br/>
privilege shall be allowed to French ship-<br/>
of-war sent on duty, in that river and its<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subjects of France and Spain, can<br/>
freely trade in the three following ports,<br/>
viz—Tourane, Belat, and Quang-an.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The peace being made, should there arise<br/>
anything of importance, the three Sover-<br/>
eigns can send Representatives to treat in<br/>
any one of the three capitals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This Deplomatic act gave us a new life<br/>
in Cochin China, and imposed new obliga-<br/>
tions upon us. By our sovereignty in<br/>
lieu of that of the King of Annam over<br/>
this extended territory, we took upon our-<br/>
selves towards our new subjects, the duties<br/>
of giving to them the blessings of a superior<br/>
civilization to that they had know; deve-<br/>
loping their resources and guaranteeing their<br/>
security.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our first care ought to be to inspire the<br/>
Annamites, with full confidence of our re-<br/>
solution to keep forever the conquests we<br/>
have made. Our evacuation of Tourane<br/>
made them think that we only occupied<br/>
their country casually, and were ready to<br/>
abandon it on the least reverse, or embar-<br/>
rassment. They were not ignorant that the<br/>
Court of Hué in signing the treaty had<br/>
yeilded only to our menaces, and they kept<br/>
up the hope of seizing the first occasion to<br/>
retake the territory thus ceded to us. As<br/>
long as they imagined this we could not<br/>
depend upon their fidelity. Notwithstand-<br/>
ing the peace, the Christians who were sus-<br/>
pected of having called us to Cochin China,<br/>
were in their eyes guilty of rebellion to their<br/>
sovereign, and deserved the greatest of<br/>
punishments and torments, the Annamites<br/>
who witnessed the butchery of many of<br/>
those accused of treason, were impressed<br/>
with terror, and would not expose themsel-<br/>
ves to Tu-duc's vengeance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These facts presented great difficulties<br/>
both moral and material, but before exam-<br/>
ining what was determined to be done, it<br/>
is necessary to show how France had to<br/>
display her ability and power.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The three provinces that we had, at such<br/>
a great distance, joined to the French Em-<br/>
pire, are of great importance both topograph-<br/>
ically and o : account of their rich territory.<br/>
They formed in the Annam Kingdom a sort<br/>
of viceroyalty and altogether was nominated<br/>
Gra-duih or Lower Cochin China, and es-<br/>
pecially lately it has been so called, the<br/>
chief station was Saigon. Natural bound-<br/>
ries surrounds and protects all the territory.<br/>
On the East and North, our new posessions<br/>
are surrounded by a chain of mountains,<br/>
which guards them from all attacks. The<br/>
danger can only come from the side of the<br/>
sea, where the country is flat, but here the<br/>
fire of our cannon will repel the assailants.<br/>
The West and South limits are Cambodia<br/>
and the Sea, but thanks to the rivers which<br/>
facilitates its defences, the dangers within<br/>
and without are no longer to be feared.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The total superficies of this territory may<br/>
be estimated at 1600 square leagues, and<br/>
the population about 1,000,000. Two rivers<br/>
the Dormey, and the Cambodia, and sev-<br/>
eral made canals surround the three provin-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ces. Saigon the most important part of the<br/>
Annam kingdom is the seat of our Gover-<br/>
nment. In the bay of Vin-tan where ship<br/>
can some and find excellent anchorage and<br/>
shelter, there are neither rocks, nor shoals.<br/>
Saigon is in so admirable position, it is in<br/>
communication with the sea distant about<br/>
15 leagues, and it forms a grand centre for<br/>
commercial enterprises with Indo-China<br/>
and Europe. The inhabitance are mild and<br/>
timid and easily governed—they are not<br/>
(as in supposed) plunged in ignorance and<br/>
barbarity, although they are Buddhists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a regular and permanent army<br/>
recruited under certain regulations, besides<br/>
a militia which is raised in the provinces<br/>
according to the wants of the state in peace<br/>
or war, but chiefly to defend them from<br/>
the pirates and the eruptions of the people<br/>
of the mountains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such is the aspect of Lower Cochin<br/>
China, we should not be surprised that af-<br/>
ter these first reports of our officers, those<br/>
most interested in this distant enterprise<br/>
should take such enthusiastic view of its<br/>
future. "It is not a colony that we have<br/>
gained for France, it is a Kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
RACHABUREE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This place is noted for being the prin-<br/>
cipal depot of Sapan-wood for the western<br/>
side of the gulf. It is situated on the Ma-<br/>
klawng river about a day’s journey from its<br/>
mouth, and nearly at the head of tide wa-<br/>
ter. At this place the river is narrow, the<br/>
banks high, and, in the dry season, the<br/>
water very low; but always navigable at<br/>
highest tides for medium sized native boats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The river below the town is beautifully<br/>
ornamented in many places with bamboo,<br/>
tamarind and mangoe groves. Some of these<br/>
are most romantic and inviting in their ap-<br/>
pearance, especialy those on the western<br/>
bank where the delicious “mango apples<br/>
grow."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whether Rachaburee would be called a<br/>
“walled town” or not, might be a disputed<br/>
question. There is both a wall and a town<br/>
it is true; but the town is one place, and<br/>
the wall another. Doubtless the wall did<br/>
at one time surround the town, but now<br/>
the enclosure, excepting the Governor’s<br/>
residence and a few other buildings, is either<br/>
waste land or cultivated rice fields.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The walls, towers, gateways &c, are yet in<br/>
a good state of preservation, and have the<br/>
same general appearance, and look as<br/>
though they might have been built about<br/>
the same age of the world with the forts,<br/>
walls &c, in Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The town is now located between the<br/>
wall and the river. This change of location<br/>
has evidently been made for the purpose of<br/>
being nearer the water, and to accommodate<br/>
the Siamese who have a peculiar aversion<br/>
to any kind of wholesome and profitable<br/>
exercise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sapan-wood and ebony (mai muk'ka)<br/>
are brought here in large quantities from<br/>
the surrounding forests, during the dry sea-<br/>
son, whence they are taken in boats to<br/>
Bangkok. It is generally cut by the for-<br/>
esters and sold to men who make it their<br/>
business to collect and convey it in carts to<br/>
the town, where it again changes hands.<br/>
These teameasters travel in the night, and al-<br/>
ways go in companies of 20 to 50 wagons.<br/>
In the morning you will hear the sound of<br/>
their wheels long before they come in sight<br/>
—not the iron wheels, but the unpleasant<br/>
creaking sound of their unoiled wooden<br/>
axles. It is a slow and tedious process<br/>
bringing it across the country in ox-carts,<br/>
and a mere moiety is obtained compared<br/>
to what there might be if a good rail-road<br/>
or canal was constructed to these almost<br/>
inexhaustable forests of Sapan-wood. Be-<br/>
sides these, large rafts of bamboos, and<br/>
other timbers are brought down the river<br/>
from the forest above the town and taken<br/>
to Bangkok. These forests of valuable<br/>
wood, it appears, are free to any who wish<br/>
to cut. What great sources of wealth these<br/>
might become to the country if properly<br/>
worked; and how much the country needs<br/>
to be explored and surveyed to ascertain<br/>
what wealth it has.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Minister is<br/>
making preparations to build a brick house<br/>
in a most delightful place on the opposite<br/>
side of the river from the town, which will<br/>
greatly help the appearance of the place,<br/>
and afford accommodations for visitors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the country is opened out and<br/>
improved, Rachaburee will become an im-<br/>
portant centre. It needs now only to be<br/>
connected with Nakawn-chaisee by a good<br/>
canal or rail-road to be in direct communica-<br/>
tion with the city, after the proposed im-<br/>
provements to the latter place are completed.<br/>
When this connection is made it will not<br/>
take much more to continue the line a very<br/>
little further to Petchaburee, where is situated<br/>
the beautiful country palace of His Majesty<br/>
the first king. In a country where canals<br/>
and rail-roads can be so easily constructed,<br/>
it it strange why His Majesty does not have<br/>
these places connected with the city by<br/>
rail, if for no other purpose than his own<br/>
accommodation in visiting the Royal coun-<br/>
try palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
S.G.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE SUGAR DISTRICT OF
NAKAWN-CHEISEE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cane plantations of Nak'awn Choi-<br/>
see lie almost entirely south of the town of<br/>
this name, between it and a point not far<br/>
from ten miles from the mouth of the<br/>
Ta-cheen river. The centre of the district<br/>
is about due west from Bangkok, to which<br/>
point the Siamese government contemplate<br/>
cutting a large canal with a carriage road<br/>
on its bank in the course of the next twelve<br/>
months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cane fields are quite charming in the<br/>
summer months, before the cane becomes<br/>
thick and heavy making the view monoton-<br/>
ous. As the banks of the river are general-<br/>
ly cleared of trees, the fields show well<br/>
from the river in times of full tide. Inter-<br/>
spersed among them are to be seen ban-<br/>
nana orchards, and indigo fields. The in-<br/>
digo plant usually occupies the space be-<br/>
tween those of the young cane, and is<br/>
brought to perfection before the latter re-<br/>
quires much room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cane is propagated by means of suck-<br/>
ers from the old stock, and these are set in<br/>
little pits made in the ground about 18<br/>
inches apart in every row. The time for plant-<br/>
ing them is from the beginning to the end<br/>
of the dry season. The young cane, as<br/>
well as the indigo plants among them, are<br/>
watered by means of long handled bas-<br/>
ket dippers, from deep artificial gutters,<br/>
charmingly straight and regular, dividing<br/>
the fields into mounds or beds, from ten to<br/>
twelve feet wide and a hundred yards or<br/>
more in length. The vital element is al-<br/>
ways present, even in the dry season, as<br/>
the flood tides daily replenish the ditches<br/>
with river water, coming within convenient<br/>
reach of the workman's dipper. You will<br/>
see the Chinamen (for the work is nearly<br/>
all done by them) scattered here and there,<br/>
about the fields, both morning and evening,<br/>
diligently irrigating their plants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In another direction, you will see the<br/>
workmen breaking up the fallow ground by<br/>
means of heavy and narrow grub hoes, at-<br/>
tached to handles six feet long. The hoe<br/>
is first lifted up as high as its handle will<br/>
admit of, is then brought down with full<br/>
fell strength, causing it to sink into the<br/>
ground some eight to ten inches. They by<br/>
a pry on the long lever, the stiff alluvial<br/>
soil is raised up, and left in lumps for the<br/>
first rain to soften and crumble.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This, but too obviously, is a hard and<br/>
tedious mode of preparing their fields for<br/>
the cane, which doubtless would be greatly<br/>
improved by some of the Western ploughs.<br/>
There is here a prodigious expenditure of<br/>
human strength where strong buffalo teams,<br/>
with suitable ploughs, would perform the<br/>
work very much quicker and equally well.<br/>
In all these plains there are neither rocks<br/>
nor stumps to interfere with the gliding of<br/>
the plough. Here among the cane plan-<br/>
tations, as well as in all the surrounding pad-<br/>
dy fields, is a fine tract for the display of<br/>
European improvements, both in the turn-<br/>
ing up of the soil, and the cultivation of<br/>
the rice and the cane. A little guano would<br/>
probably improve the latter fifty per cent,<br/>
but even without this or any other manure<br/>
than that obtained by the annual overflow-<br/>
ing of the river, the crops, in ordinary<br/>
seasons, are far from being inferior.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A TREATY
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between the French Consul and Hluang<br/>
Bawriboon Soora-kawn, the Spirit Farm-<br/>
er, translated from a Siamese Copy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE I. French liquors are [hereby]<br/>
permitted to be sold [in Bangkok] and<br/>
there is nothing to prevent it. The Spirit<br/>
Farmer will not interfere with any person<br/>
who has been duly licensed to traffic in<br/>
the same. Such a person shall be allowed<br/>
to sell the liquor as he pleases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE II. When any vessel shall ar-<br/>
rive in Bangkok having a consignment of<br/>
[French] liquors to any merchant, a report<br/>
of such consignment shall be made to the<br/>
French Consul, stating the number of cases,<br/>
and then said cases shall be delivered over<br/>
to the Consul, together with a certificate<br/>
from a proper officer in France, stating that<br/>
said cases of liquor are indeed French.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE III. As soon as the French Con-<br/>
sul shall have heard of such consignment,<br/>
he shall inform the Spirit Farmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE IV. When a merchant shall<br/>
desire to dispose of his [French] liquors to<br/>
a resident of Bangkok to retail for him or<br/>
in his place, he shall first inform the French<br/>
Consul, and then take the names of the<br/>
persons who wish to engage in said traffic,<br/>
stating how many persons there are and how<br/>
many cases the merchant would deliver to<br/>
each. And then the French Consul, in con-<br/>
cert with the Spirit Farmer, shall give to<br/>
each undertaker a written license to sell the<br/>
liquor. The licenses shall have the seals<br/>
of both the Consul and the Spirit Farmer<br/>
affixed to them, and all the cases and bot-<br/>
tles shall have the seal of the Spirit Farmer<br/>
imprinted on them so that the servants of<br/>
the Inspector of Customs shall be able to<br/>
ascertain readily what cases and bottles con-<br/>
tain French liquor, and thus avoid disputes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE V. Let it be distinctly under-<br/>
stood that the articles of this Treaty have<br/>
respect only to French liquors, and to no<br/>
others. And those persons who may ob-<br/>
tain licenses to sell [French liquors] shall<br/>
be careful and sure that they do not use<br/>
their licenses for the sale of any other kind<br/>
of spirits, as there are dishonest men who<br/>
might be tempted to use their licenses for<br/>
the sole of ligours that have a counterfeit<br/>
French label on the cases and bottles. Any<br/>
person of this discription, when detected,<br/>
shall be required by the French Consul, to<br/>
return his license: or if the Spirit Farmer<br/>
shall detect and arrest such a man, let him<br/>
not presume to make any complaint of it to<br/>
the French Consul for he will have no de-<br/>
sire to hear him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE VI. Whoever may wish to in-<br/>
form himself as to what are certainly the<br/>
lawful labels for French liquors, or what<br/>
are the counterfeits of the same, let him<br/>
hereby know that at the French Consulates<br/>
there are the several varieties of labels, and<br/>
if any one desire to go and examine them,<br/>
he is at liberty to do so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE VII. These articles of Treaty<br/>
have been written both in the French and<br/>
Siamese languages, and are designed to be<br/>
used within the limits of the city of Bang-<br/>
kok from this time forward.—Let every per-<br/>
son take heed to follow them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE RIVER TA-CHEEN
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ta-cheen river empties into the head of<br/>
the Gulf of Siam, twenty miles or more<br/>
West of the mouth of the Maa-nam Chow<br/>
Phya, and is about one fourth less in<br/>
volume than the latter. It appears to be<br/>
sufficiently deep to be navigated more than<br/>
60 miles, by any vessel of less than twelve<br/>
feet draught. But there is a sand bar a<br/>
little outside of its mouth, much like the<br/>
one at the mouth of the Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is in some respects a more beautiful<br/>
stream than the latter, and one of the most<br/>
serpentine in Siam, its bends being gener-<br/>
ally quite abrupt, describing often almost<br/>
an entire circle. Persons not aware of this<br/>
fact, are liable to lose their reckoning and<br/>
bearings, in passing from place to place up-<br/>
on it. Some of the bends of the river,<br/>
have small sinuous canals across their<br/>
necks, which greatly shortens distances for<br/>
small craft at flood tide, but they are too<br/>
shallow for any use at ebb.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ta-cheen is one of four noble rivers, all<br/>
flowing southerly, seeking the Gulf through<br/>
one common plain as level as the sea. This<br/>
assertion is so strange to some, that it is<br/>
difficult for them to believe it to be a fact.<br/>
A common belief of Europeans is, that<br/>
they are but so many mouths of one mighty<br/>
river. But the truth is, there is not any<br/>
evidence whatever that even any two of<br/>
them have the least natural connection with<br/>
each other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All this vast plain being more than 100<br/>
miles in width, from East to West, and not<br/>
less than 150 miles in length, from North<br/>
to South, was once, in all probability, oc-<br/>
cupied by the sea, which, having gradually<br/>
retired from its ancient boundaries since<br/>
Noah's flood, has left these four great riv-<br/>
ers, to cut each its own independent chan-<br/>
nel to the Gulf, through the alluvial de-<br/>
posit left by the receding waters. As a<br/>
proof that the sea has retired, it may be<br/>
stated that marine productions are to be<br/>
found deeply imbedded in all this alluvial<br/>
deposit, and that there are hills of sea shells<br/>
at Aug-hin, and other places, from 20 to 30<br/>
feet above the present level of the sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Obituary Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Sir Robert Schomburgk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Robert Hermann Schomburgk, lately<br/>
her Majesty's consul at Bangkok, and cel-<br/>
ebrated for his many travels and his scien-<br/>
tific investigations in South America, died<br/>
at Berlin on the 11th inst. Sir Robert was<br/>
born in 1804. His first employment was<br/>
in 1831, when he was engaged in the survey<br/>
of one of the Virgin Islands of the West<br/>
Indies, and the dangerous coral reefs<br/>
surrounding them. In 1835, under the<br/>
auspices of the Royal Geographical Society,<br/>
he proceeded to Guiana and explored its<br/>
interior, which was previously unknown<br/>
land. For this service he received the gold<br/>
medal of the society on returning to Eng<br/>
land in 1839. In the subsequent year he<br/>
undertook, on the part of the British Gov-<br/>
ernment, the survey of the limits of British<br/>
Guiana, for the successful prosecution of<br/>
which mission he received the honour of<br/>
knighthood, and in the same year (1840)<br/>
he was nominated a Knight of the Prussian<br/>
Order of the Red Eagle, and received pro-<br/>
motion in the same order some years later.<br/>
Sir Robert first entered upon the consular<br/>
service of Great Britain in 1848, when he<br/>
was appointed British Consul at St. Dom-<br/>
ingo, and in the following year was accredot-<br/>
ed plenipotentiary to conclude a treaty with<br/>
that republic. He was appointed consul at<br/>
Bangkok in 1857, but retired on a pension<br/>
last year. In 1859 accompanied by Mr.<br/>
Clark, interpreter, he proceeded on an over-<br/>
land tour to Moulmein, through Changmei,<br/>
the capital of the tributary kingdom of<br/>
Laos, and returned to the seat of his con-<br/>
sulate in 1860. Sir Robert was a member<br/>
of many learned societies both in Europe<br/>
and America, and he is the author of some<br/>
clever works and many scientific papers of<br/>
great interest. Sir Robert was a Prussian,<br/>
subject by birth. Overland Mail, Mar. 18th
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_6_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A. Card.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—-I wish distinctly to have it known,<br/>
that the proprietor is responsible for the<br/>
articles on "POLICE PROTECTION" and<br/>
"WHAT ARE THE POLICE BEING," which<br/>
have appeared in the "Siam Times."<br/>
They were both written by me, but were<br/>
approved of by Mr. J. H. Chandler, else<br/>
they could not have appeared in the paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours sincerely,
T. W. Smith,
Late Reporter for the "Siam Times"
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 1ST TO 18TH MAY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
Commissioner of Police.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny, of cloth, clothes &c</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt of Tls 33 @ 76</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting the Police</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Highway robbery</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slave</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cutting & severely wounding his</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>wife</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Breach of trust 200 Tls</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Creating a disturbance in a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>brothel.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying goods at unreason-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>able hours of the night.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya left Singapore<br/>
May 8th, arrived at the bar 13th inst, and<br/>
and at Bangkok at 11 A.M 14th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers, Per Chow Phya.<br/>
Messrs. Allen, Horbey and Capt. Hicks.<br/>
H. M. St. Str. Princess Royal, Vice Admi-<br/>
ral King is on passage for this, and may be<br/>
expected to arrive about the 22nd inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 11th inst, the Opium farmer's<br/>
men assisted by Capt Amos and five or six<br/>
of the Police Force, searched the promises<br/>
of Messrs. Pickenpack, Theis, & Co., for<br/>
contraband Opium and found a large<br/>
quantity. It appears that there was scarcely<br/>
a chest opened but what contained opium<br/>
more or less, from one to two hundred<br/>
ticals worth;—that the coolies have<br/>
been carrying on a good business for some<br/>
time, and that the opium was prepared<br/>
on the premises, as the pans &c, used for<br/>
that purpose were also found and seized.<br/>
The opium not generally distributed plainly<br/>
showed that not one or two were alone<br/>
guilty, but the whole fraternity of coolies<br/>
including the head man, in whose chest<br/>
the largest quantity was found. The whole<br/>
forty or fifty men ought to have been<br/>
arrested; but it would have required the<br/>
whole Police Force to do that, Capt. Ames<br/>
wisely took four of the most guilty, and<br/>
with the opium was proceeding to the boat,<br/>
when the prisoners called on their friends<br/>
for assistance, and a general row com-<br/>
menced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About fifty or sixty coolies (among whom<br/>
were some who claimed to belong to the<br/>
"Borneo Co. Limited") against six of the<br/>
Police, who retained two of the prisoners<br/>
and all the opium; the opium farmer's men<br/>
who had chrged the other two, let them<br/>
go to the first onset and retreated to the boat.<br/>
The coolies were armed with sticks and<br/>
bricks (which they showered about pretty<br/>
plentifully) and in spite of Mr. Finch who<br/>
did all in his power to quell the disturbance,<br/>
they followed the prisoners to the boat, and<br/>
would have probably released them, had<br/>
not Mr. Finch and his friends brought fire<br/>
arms to bear on them, at which they pre-<br/>
cipitately dispersed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We find that the practice of assaulting<br/>
the Police, and releasing prisoners is very<br/>
common among the Chinese, and not until<br/>
a severe example is made of some of them<br/>
will a stop be put to it. The Police were<br/>
only doing their duty, and without their<br/>
assistance it would be very difficult to seize<br/>
opium; therefore as long as the Government<br/>
receive a revenue from the sale of that<br/>
drug, and the opium farmer requires the<br/>
assistance of the Police to seize smugglers,<br/>
we hope that the Government will support<br/>
and protect the Police, and punish every<br/>
one who may assault or obstruct them in<br/>
the execution of their duty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry to find that this is the<br/>
second European establishment, on which<br/>
opium in large quantities has been found<br/>
within the last few weeks, and report says<br/>
that others are suspected; most likely the<br/>
Chinamen take advantage of the premises<br/>
of Foreigners, and are under the impression<br/>
the Police will never pay them a visit.<br/>
Much to the proprietors that was done<br/>
so twice, successively, and we hope it might<br/>
be the means of breaking up such nests<br/>
of crime, and free the proprietors from a<br/>
certain amount of suspicion, which will<br/>
naturally in some minds be attached to<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE TO MARINERS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Reef near Pulo Panjang, reported by<br/>
Capt Hide Ship "Siamese Crown".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Ship "Siamese Crown"<br/>
struck and dragged over this Reef, on her<br/>
passage from China to this Port. This<br/>
Reef is not marked on any Chart, and<br/>
consequently must be unknown by Naviga-<br/>
tors in these waters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the time the Ship struck, Peak<br/>
Island bore North, and White Rock S. W.<br/>
by W. the ship was drawing 15 feet<br/>
water, after crossing over the Reef, sound-<br/>
ings was got, at 30 fathoms. It being in<br/>
the night time I did not stop to examine<br/>
the Reef.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PUBLIC AUCTION
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By order of His Danish<br/>
Majesty's Consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Boat or Cutter or Lor-<br/>
cha sometimes called the "Day-<br/>
light," or "Fairplay;" with all<br/>
her tackle, sails &c, &c, will<br/>
be sold by Public Auction,<br/>
where she now lies in front of<br/>
the Danish Consulate, on Sat-<br/>
urday next the 20th inst at<br/>
noon. This vessel was was<br/>
recently built at Shanghai in<br/>
a substantial manner, and sails<br/>
fast. Sale to take place on<br/>
board. The vessel may be<br/>
inspected at any time prior to<br/>
the time of sale.<br/>
Bangkok 13th may 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
VIRGIN &Co.
Auctioneer.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Underground Railway in New York.—
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another effort is made to obtain<br/>
from the Legislature of New York a charter<br/>
for a railroad under Broadway, to extend<br/>
from Bowling Green to the Central Park.<br/>
The project may receive an impulse from<br/>
the success of a similar enterprise in Lon-<br/>
don. The Metropolitan Underground Rail-<br/>
way of London reports : "One week in<br/>
December there were carried over the road<br/>
273,669 passengers, the receipts being £2,-<br/>
703. This is the largest weekly receipt<br/>
since the opening. This is equal to £720<br/>
per mile for the week, or at the rate of<br/>
£37,000 per mile per annum, and is very<br/>
largely in excess of the receipts per mile of<br/>
any other railway in the kingdom. When<br/>
the extension is open there is no doubt that<br/>
the traffic over the entire railway will be<br/>
enormously increased. The works are be-<br/>
ing vigorously prosecuted."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_7_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ENIGMA. No. 2.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I am composed of 20 letters.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 12: 17: 10: 15: 20: to appear in which is the<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}ambition of many people.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 20: 17: 7: 18: 9: 14: 19: is worthy of death.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 15: 7: 1: 20: 17: 18: 3: is what some powers<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}profess to be.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 4: 14: 1: is a pronoun.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 16: 10: 15: destroys more life than a pesti-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}lence.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 12: 17: 4: 10: 19: is a dishonorable prac-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}tice<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 4: 18: 2: 7: is a celebrated College in the<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}United States.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 1: 8: 18: 11: is an abbreviated appellation of<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}a certain country.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 11: 18: 15: 16: 14: is a kind of fruit.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 9: 18: 1: 3: is the name of a tall king.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 12: 10: 15: 20: is a liquid measure.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 11: 10: 15: 20: is a unity in Siam.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 1: 2: 3: 4: 13: 5: 7: 8: is the name of an<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}illustrious Grecian general.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}My, 6: 14: is the name of an Egyptian king.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}My whole is an illustrious son of Jesse.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Answer To Enigma
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Man—Hare—Steam—Her—Mills—TeCumseh—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wars—Mice—Siam—Wales—Masters—Canals—Mu-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}sic—William Te Cumseh, Sherman.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,<br/>
Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th<br/>
of February last, intestate, are<br/>
hereby required to send the<br/>
particulars in writing of their<br/>
claims to the undersigned the<br/>
administrator, on or before the<br/>
31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said<br/>
administrator will proceed to<br/>
distribute the estate and effects<br/>
of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having<br/>
regard only to such claims of<br/>
which he shall then have had<br/>
notice.<br/>
Dated at the British Consulate<br/>
Bangkok, Siam Mar. 14th 1856.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(s. d.) Thomas George Knox
H, B, M, Consul
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A steamer has arrived at Crookhaven<br/>
this morning, bringing advices from New<br/>
York to the 16th inst. General Lee re-<br/>
ports that the Federals, advancing on Kin-<br/>
ston, North Carolina, were attacked four<br/>
miles from that place by General Bragg<br/>
on the 8th inst, and driven back three miles,<br/>
with the loss of 1,500 prisoners, three can-<br/>
non, and many killed and wounded, which<br/>
were left on the field. The Confederate<br/>
loss was smail. General Schofield, who ar-<br/>
rived at the scene of operations on the fol-<br/>
lowing day, reports that Bragg renewed<br/>
the attack on the 10th, but was repulsed<br/>
with heavy loss in killed and wounded, and<br/>
several hundred were taken prisoners. He,<br/>
in turn, admits his loss small. Later des-<br/>
patches from Fortress Monroe state that<br/>
Schofield occupied Kingston on the 10th,<br/>
Braggs being retired towards Goldsborough.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Stanton had announced the receipt<br/>
of despatches from Sherman dated Laurel-<br/>
hill, North Carolina, of the 8th inst, which<br/>
state that he is progressing well, but, for<br/>
prudential reasons omits giving details. A<br/>
later telegram, however, states that scouts<br/>
from Sherman arrived at Wilmington on<br/>
the 11th, and reported his army encamped<br/>
at Fayetteville, North Carolina.<br/>
    Richmond papers publish a correspon-<br/>
dence between Sherman and Wade Hamp-<br/>
ton, in which the former declared he will<br/>
shoot a Confederate soldier for every one<br/>
of his men killed while foraging; and the<br/>
latter replies, that for every Confederate so<br/>
executed he will retaliate by shooting two<br/>
Federal officals.<br/>
    General Lee notifies to the Confederate<br/>
war department that General Wade Hamp-<br/>
ton attacked General Kilpatrick, without<br/>
mentioning at what place, on the 10th, and<br/>
drove him from his encampment, capturing<br/>
his cannon, horses, trains, several hundred<br/>
prisoners, and recapturing many Confeder-<br/>
ate prisoners. The Federal loss in killed<br/>
and wounded was heavy; that of the Con-<br/>
federates slight.<br/>
    Gen. Sheridan, in a despatch to General<br/>
Grant, dated Columbia, Virginia, reports<br/>
the progress of his expedition up to the<br/>
10th inst. He alludes to a previous des-<br/>
patch, announcing his occupation of Way-<br/>
nesborough, and the defeat of Early by Cus-<br/>
ter, which had not been published. From<br/>
Waynesborough he proceeded to Charlotte-<br/>
ville, sending out detachments, which des-<br/>
troyed bridges and portions of the railways<br/>
to within twenty miles of Lynchburg, thence<br/>
to Scottsville, and destroying the locks and<br/>
cutting the banks of the James River Ca,<br/>
nal letting in the full current of the river,<br/>
and tearing up the railway along its banks.<br/>
All mills, factories and bridges on the line<br/>
of march were destroyed. Commodore<br/>
Hollins, of the Confederate navy, was re-<br/>
ported killed while attempting to escape.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
capture. Sheridan adds, that he met with<br/>
no opposition after the conflict with Early,<br/>
and found food and forage in abundance.<br/>
The courier who brought Sheridan's des-<br/>
patches to Grant stated that Sheridan re-<br/>
connoitred Lynchburg, but found its gar-<br/>
rison reinforced and its defenses too strong<br/>
to attack. Sheridan was said to be endeav-<br/>
oring to reach White House on the<br/>
Pamunky.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mobile dispatches of the 28th ult., to<br/>
the Richmond papers, state that 28 Feder-<br/>
al steamers and transports had entered the<br/>
bay, and landed large numbers of troops<br/>
upon Dauphin's Island. An early attack<br/>
upon that city was expected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
R. C. Kennedy, charged with participa-<br/>
tion in the attempt to burn the New York<br/>
Hotel last autumn, had been convicted by<br/>
a court-martial as a spy and incendiary, and<br/>
sentenced to be hanged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Tribune announces, from Washing-<br/>
ton, that many Federal officers, whose<br/>
term of service have expired, had proceed-<br/>
ed to Mexico and accepted command in the<br/>
Republican army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Lincoln, under date of the 14th inst.,<br/>
orders the arrest and imprisonment during<br/>
the war of all Federal citizens or domiciled<br/>
aliens who have held intercourse with the<br/>
Confederate States by sea; he also directs<br/>
all non-resident foreigners who have been<br/>
engaged in blockade-running to leave the<br/>
country within twelve days, if on the At-<br/>
lantic side, and within forty days, if on the<br/>
Pacific side, not to return during the war,<br/>
under pain of imprisonment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Confederate Congress, which was to<br/>
have adjourned on the 11th inst., had ex-<br/>
tended its session to the 14th, in compliance<br/>
with a message from President Davis, which<br/>
stated that he had an important communic-<br/>
ation to submit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The draught was commenced in New<br/>
York on the 15th inst. No opposition was<br/>
made. Provost-Marshal Frye had an-<br/>
nounced that the conscripts are not to be<br/>
called into actual service while volunteering<br/>
continues reasonably brisk.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_9_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, May 6th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Richard Cobden died yesterday in Lon-<br/>
don.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plague is making fearful ravages in<br/>
St. Petersbergh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Monte Video surrendered to Hores.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brazilian troops took possession.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace resulted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hores temporarily assumed Presidency
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In answer to a question put by the New<br/>
delegate relative to reports of the Pope<br/>
coming to England; Palmerston said Eng-<br/>
land offered Pope hospitality; masta (! as<br/>
to) his coming to England it would be a<br/>
political anachronism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great opposition about to be made to<br/>
the nomination of Bishop of Lahore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Attempt made to form Grant's junction<br/>
with Sheridan failed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sherman reported to have been driven<br/>
from Goldsboro with heavy loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Committee of the Commons report<br/>
a vast number of false signatures attached<br/>
to petitions in favor of Azim Jah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Papal Government has declared to<br/>
Foreign Ambassadors its inability to raise<br/>
an adequate force to suppress revolutionary<br/>
attempts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Spain has stated its intention to confer<br/>
the Balaeric Isles on the Pope if obliged to<br/>
quit Rome.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria has declared its readiness to<br/>
abstain from voting in the Diet on Bavarian<br/>
proposals regarding Duchies, if Prussia do<br/>
so too; if not Austria will vote in favor of<br/>
Bavarian proposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Discussion of claim of Augustenburg fixed<br/>
for 6th April.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Papal states invaded by brigands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
French troops aent to expel them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of the French about to<br/>
visit Algeria.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Arrivals from Calcutta,—Alumbaugh,<br/>
Nile, Queen of the South. S. S. Golden<br/>
Horn, Chiwell Abbey, and Oriana.<br/>
Discount four Consols ninety and a quarter.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_9_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
(Special Telegrams for the Observer)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NEWS FROM LONDON TO
APRIL 19th.
FURTHER FAILURES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"London, 10th April, Afternoon .—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dhollera 10 pence ; declining .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Shirtings 9s. and 6d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"London, 12th April; evening;—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fair Dhollera 10 pence one farthing .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Failures:— Boll Killor & Co., Liverpool .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Charles Fore [Fox?] and Company .<br/>
Liabilities six handled thousand Pounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Neile Brothers, Liverpool .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
T. Logan , Glasgow .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We add some items from Telegrams of<br/>
an earlier date which we find in the Mad-<br/>
ras Athenaeum .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 6th April-—Portugal has given<br/>
satisfaction for firing upon the Niagara,<br/>
dismissed the Governor of the Fort,<br/>
and saluted the American Flag with one<br/>
hundred and three guns . Four dismissed.<br/>
( Discount four.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 8th April—-The Indian Budget<br/>
has caused great surprise and dissatisfaction.<br/>
Sir Charles Wood has declared that the<br/>
Export duties are totally opposed to<br/>
everything he expected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oxford won the boat race.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton; Dhollera ten-pence three far-<br/>
things. Bengal six-pence farthings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, 30th March-—Severe battle<br/>
at Petersburg. Lee attacked-—gained tem-<br/>
porary success—afterwards repulsed, heavy<br/>
loss both sides. Sherman joined Schofield<br/>
at Goldsboro after hard fighting. Peace<br/>
Rumours renewed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 10th April.—Charles Joyce<br/>
and Co., failed million. Cotton half penny<br/>
lower. India Railways higher.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, 11th April, 10.25 a m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, 1st April—A General ad-<br/>
vance of Grant’s army has commenced, and<br/>
a great battle is believed to have com-<br/>
menced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Thomas is advancing on Lynch-<br/>
burg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One three-four ( ! Gold 134.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, Saturday morning, 13th Apr.<br/>
3.10 a. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York 5th.-—After three day’s bloody<br/>
battle Grant has occupied Petersburg and<br/>
Richmond. Lee retreating on Lynchburg<br/>
closely pursued.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lee’s losses estimated at fifteen hundred<br/>
killed and wounded, twenty-five hundred<br/>
prisoners, and one hundred to two hundred<br/>
guns. Federals lost seven hundred.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton—-Dhollers, ten pence half penny;<br/>
Bengal, five pence half penny.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 13th April.-—Three days fight-<br/>
ing.—15000 Confederates-—7000 Federals<br/>
killed and wounded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lincoln in Davis’ house at Richmond.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lee hemmed in and expected to sur-<br/>
render.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton. Dhollra 9d lb.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 19th April, 8.50 p.m. New<br/>
York. 8th.—-Pursuit of Lee continues.<br/>
Sheridan overtook and routed him near<br/>
Burke Vally. Sheridan thinks Lee will<br/>
surrender.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sheridan advancing. Raleigh attacked.<br/>
An attack near Mobile commenced.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_10_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some two years since a quantity of tam-<br/>
arind was sent by a number of American<br/>
Citizens here, to New York for the use of<br/>
the Christian Commission. No news had<br/>
been received from it after it left China, and<br/>
it was supposed to be lost. By this mail<br/>
however it is learned that it was received<br/>
and appropriated to the sick soldiers and<br/>
sailors. Portions of it were sent to Norfolk<br/>
Va. New Berne N. C. Port Royal S. C. and<br/>
to New Orleans La. It was found to be ex-<br/>
cellent in cases of Camp Fever and Diar-<br/>
rhia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Tuesday evening 9th inst. there was<br/>
a grand illumination at wat Pra-Kao it being<br/>
the anniversary of the birth, death and in-<br/>
spiration of Buddha, it was conducted on a<br/>
much larger scale than usual. Prince and<br/>
Noblemen were represented each only by a<br/>
lantern made after his own taste and giving<br/>
his name and seal &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the "Straits Times" of May 6th there<br/>
is an item referring to the "extraordinary<br/>
procedure of the French at Bangkok."<br/>
Wrong impressions will get abroad occas-<br/>
sionally. Truth demands that we state<br/>
that there was only one gun-boat viz the<br/>
Mitraille. There was no gun-boat menac-<br/>
ing Campoot so far as we know. The Mi-<br/>
traille did not anchor opposite the Royal<br/>
Palace, nor did she in any way menace the<br/>
Royal Palace. The usual friendly salute<br/>
was fired upon her arrival here. And when<br/>
the treaty between France and Siam in re-<br/>
ference to Cambodia was concluded she<br/>
left peaceably. What she would have done<br/>
had her demands not been complied with<br/>
we know not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M. Consul was abroad during the<br/>
time the French were here, but he did not<br/>
leave on account of their coming. He held<br/>
communication daily with the city during<br/>
his absence. We believe that his advice<br/>
was asked by the Siamese, and freely given<br/>
by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_10_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My Dear Sir—Some years ago I made<br/>
a note of the following law against "obtain-<br/>
ing husbands under false pretences," it was<br/>
passed by the English Parliament in 1770<br/>
and enacts " That all women of whatso-<br/>
ever age, whether virgins, maids, or widows,<br/>
who shall impose upon, seduce, and betray<br/>
into matrimony, any of H. Majesty's male<br/>
subjects by virtue of scents, paints, cos-<br/>
metics, washes, artificial teeth, false hair<br/>
spanish wool, iron, iron stays, bolstered<br/>
hips, or high heeled shoes, shall incur the<br/>
penalty of the law, now against witchcraft,<br/>
and like misdemeanors, and their marriage<br/>
under such circumstances, upon conviction<br/>
of the offending party, shall be null and<br/>
void."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Do you know if this law has been repeal<br/>
ed? I am acquainted with a few bewitching<br/>
creatures, who do not pay the slightest re-<br/>
gard to the above, and although I may not<br/>
always be proof against their witchcraft, I<br/>
should be very sorry to see any of them un<br/>
dergo the penalty of the law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Your's &c. Silverbullet.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_10_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
If you read the following verses, and are told<br/>
that they are written by a boy fifteen years old, who<br/>
saved carefully to raise money enough to buy the pa-<br/>
per and pay the postage, then wrote the lines upon<br/>
the window-sill, and with modest hesitation and<br/>
doubt sent them off, would you not augur well of<br/>
him? But if you knew that he was of foreign blood,<br/>
his parents dead, his mother, though very poor, yet<br/>
greatly educated, and careful, before dying, of his<br/>
education; and that the verses are the remembrance<br/>
of an old legend his mother used to sing,-—will you<br/>
not feel that upon this page of the Easy Chair you<br/>
have fallen upon one of those chapters of romance<br/>
which are familiar to us in Miss Braddon’s books,<br/>
say—and in older and better books than hers—and<br/>
in the best history of human life? It is remarkable<br/>
to find the rhythm and the tone of the oldest En-<br/>
glish poetry in these verses of a half-American lad<br/>
of to-day. There is a suggestion in the measure<br/>
and phraseology of the pompous richness and stiff<br/>
brocaded movement of old English verse. Imag-<br/>
ine that the Easy Chair copies from some page of<br/>
two or three centuries ago, and it will not seem<br/>
strange. "Easy Chair Harper's Monthly".
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_10_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE SUN AND NIGHT—AN ALLEGORY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM THE SPANISH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Already Night, ambitious Empress, round<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}This earthly orb her leaden chains had spread;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And mortals, wrapt in slumber so profound,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Seemed less enslaved in Sleep's embraces than dead.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Sol early knew her proud, insidious aim,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}And, mounting hastily his car sublime<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}(The while his breast fierce ire and rage inflame),<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Grasps his keen rays and flies to the Eastern clime.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He gained the Horizon! — When poor Night beheld<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Her more than equal foe intrenched secure,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Swiftly she fled, by hurrying fears impelled,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}T'escape the fury of her swift pursuer.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From side to side disconsolate she flies,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}But finds, alas! no refuge, no repose;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When haply, lo! a shady grot she views,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}And creeps for shelter, trembling as she goes.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In close pursuit the Sun the welkin treads,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Darting his fiery shafts on every side,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Climbs the steep vault, his piercing splendor extends,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}To find what den the fugitive might hide.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A while he gazed attentive; but in vain<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}His penetrating eye surveyed the world;—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Outbraved! his choler 'gainst the humble plain<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}The fury of his blazing weapons burled.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wistful, meanwhile, within the covert far,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}'Mid the thick branches of the friendly grove,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Night hear, appalled! the rolling of his car,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Which headlong on her hot pursuer drove.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Soon as he passed from coward terrors free<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}She felt new life her languid powers pervade;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And freedom now and calm tranquillity<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Breathed their bland influence through the realms<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}of shade.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}First peeping through the copses of the wood,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}She saw, far distant, Sol's declining flame—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Beheld him buried in the Western flood,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Then jocund forth from her asylum came.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Elate with pompous dignity she viewed<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}A shining troop of circling stars appear,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Then, vying in obsequious homage, strewed<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Their gaudy spangles round the hemisphere.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The uncourteous Moon, deck'd in a borrowed robe,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Foremost along the dingy concave swims—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thus Night, triumphant Mistress of the globe,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}The King of Day's sublimest glory dims.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Night, Peerless! whom no rival shall assail,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}What time thy foe his short career has run—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Say, who e'er fancied that thy flimsy veil<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Might thus obscure the effulgence of the Sun?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So, Truth, irradiating, deigns to shine<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Like the bright sun, and mists and clouds pervades;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But lo! we bow at our accustomed shrine,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}And lose ourselves again in Error’s shades.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We listen not when sage instruction speaks,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}Or, listening, oft her precepts we disdain;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And wavering Folly back returns and seeks<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}To reign once more where it was wont to reign.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_10_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A man came to the Duke of Wellington. "What<br/>
have you to offer?" "A bullet-proof jacket, your<br/>
grace." "Put it on." The inventor obeyed. The<br/>
duke rang a bell. An aide-de-camp presented him-<br/>
self. "Tell the captain of the guard to order one of<br/>
his men to load with ball cartridge." The inventor<br/>
disappeared, and was never seen again near the<br/>
Horse Guards. No money was wasted in trying that<br/>
invention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WHAT IT WAS ABOUT.—Dr. Barnes being inclined<br/>
to sleep during a dull, prosy sermon, a friend who<br/>
was with him, jolted him on his having nodded now<br/>
end then. Barnes insisted on his having been<br/>
awake all the time. "Well, then," said his friend,<br/>
"can you tell me what the sermon was about? "<br/>
"Yes, I can," he answered, "it was about an hour<br/>
too long."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
   All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.<br/>
   A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.<br/>
   There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.<br/>
   The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.<br/>
   Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_11_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Four gentlemen—a Baptist, Presbyterian,<br/>
Methodist, and Roman Catholic—met by<br/>
agreement to dine on a fish. Soon as grace<br/>
was said, the Catholic rose, armed with a<br/>
knife and fork, and taking about one-third<br/>
of the fish, comprehending the head, re-<br/>
moved it to his plate, exclaiming, as he sat<br/>
down, with great self-satisfaction, "Papa<br/>
est caput ecclesiæ:" the Pope is the head<br/>
of the church. Immediately the Methodist<br/>
minister arose, and, helping himself to about<br/>
one-third, embracing the tail, seated him-<br/>
self. "Finis coronat opus;" the end crowns<br/>
the work. The Presbyterian now thought<br/>
it was about time for him to move, and,<br/>
taking the remainder of the fish to his plate,<br/>
exclaimed, "In mediis est veritas;" truth lies<br/>
between the two extremes. Our Baptist<br/>
brother had nothing before him but an<br/>
empty plate, and the prospect of a slim<br/>
dinner; and, snatching up the bowl of<br/>
drawn [melted] butter, he dashed it over<br/>
them all, exclaiming, "Ego baptiso vos;" I<br/>
baptize you all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The London Spectator concludes a late article on<br/>
Gen. Sherman’s march, written on receipt of Americ-<br/>
can news now four weeks old, with the emphatic<br/>
(now prophetic) declaration: — "There is not a<br/>
general now alive in Europe who, if Sherman suc-<br/>
ceeds, will not recognize the addition of one more<br/>
to the short but first-class leaders of armies."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steeling Money.—The following extract from<br/>
Camden will explain the origin and use of the word<br/>
"sterling."—"In the time of King Richard I, monie<br/>
coined in the east parts of Germanie begun to be of<br/>
especiall request in England for the puritie thereof,<br/>
and was called Easterling monie, as all the inhabit-<br/>
ants of those parts were called Easterlings, and<br/>
shortly after some of that countrie, skillful in mint<br/>
matters and alloes, were sent for into the realme to<br/>
bring the coins to perfection, which since that time<br/>
were called of them sterling, for Easterling."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Wealthiest Man—-An Annual Income of<br/>
$5,000,000.—Alexander T. Stewart, the dry goods<br/>
nabob of New York, has the largest income of any<br/>
man in America, or (probably) the world. He has<br/>
lately paid an income tax of $250,000—on a net in-<br/>
come of five million dollars!—This would be the in-<br/>
terest, at 6 per cent, of over eighty millions. We<br/>
know of no case among the wealthy men of England<br/>
that surpasses or equals this, and we suppose A. T.<br/>
Stewart is the “richest man” living—Albany Argus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lady's age—A lady who still prides herself on<br/>
her youth and beauty had to appear at a Paris police-<br/>
court last week. She had differences with her son,<br/>
who is old enough at least to be examined on oath.<br/>
They both had to state their age in a court of Just-<br/>
ice. "Your age, madame?" asks the courteous<br/>
justice. "Twenty-five," says audacious mother. A<br/>
little later the son is in the box. "Your age, sir?"<br/>
asks justice. "Why" answers ingenious youth,<br/>
"I had, to my astonishment, that I am a year older<br/>
than my mother."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is fame? The advantage of being known by<br/>
people of whom you yourself know nothing, and for<br/>
whom you care as little.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Learning will accumulate wonderfully, if you add<br/>
a little every day. Pick up the book and gain one<br/>
new idea, if no more. Save that one—add another<br/>
as soon as you can.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You labor overmuch in your composition, doc-<br/>
tor," said a flippant clergyman to a venerable divine<br/>
"I write a sermon in three hours, and make nothing<br/>
of it." "So your congregation says," quoth the<br/>
doctor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lady that would please herself in marrying was<br/>
warned that her intended, although a very good sort<br/>
of a man, was very singular. "Well," replied the<br/>
lady, "if he is very much unlike other men he is<br/>
much more likely to make a good husband."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A woman having occasion to visit an acquaintance<br/>
living in a neighboring town, took her seat in a<br/>
railroad carriage. Surprised at the short time in<br/>
which the journey was accomplished, she remarked,<br/>
that if she had known she could have got there so<br/>
quickly, she would have walked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Archbishop Whateby was endeavoring to elicit a<br/>
candidate's idea on the market value of labor, with<br/>
reference to demand and supply, but being puzzled,<br/>
the prelate put a question in this simple form—"If<br/>
there are in your village two shoemakers with just<br/>
sufficient employment to enable them to live a tolera-<br/>
bly and no more, what would follow if a third shoe-<br/>
maker set up in the same village?" "What would<br/>
follow, sir?" said the candidate; "why, a fight, to<br/>
be sure!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It seems to me I have seen your physiognomy<br/>
somewhere before," said a swell to a stranger whom<br/>
he met the other day; "but I cannot imagine where."<br/>
"Very likely," replied the other: "I have been the<br/>
keeper of a prison for the last twenty years."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a Scotch town lately, a man from the country<br/>
applied to a respectable lawyer for legal advice. Af-<br/>
ter detailing the circumstances of the case, he was<br/>
asked if he had stated the facts exactly as they oc-<br/>
curred. "Ou, ay, sir," rejoined the applicant, "I<br/>
thought it best to tell you the plain truth; you can<br/>
put the lees till't yourself."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man applied to Dr. Jackson, the celebrated<br/>
chemist of Boston, with a box of specimens: "Can<br/>
you tell me what this is, sir?" Certainly I can.<br/>
sir, that is iron pyrites." "What sir?" in a voice of<br/>
thunder. "Iron pyrites." Iron pyrites! and what<br/>
is that?" "That's what it is," said the chemist, put-<br/>
ting a lot on the shovel over the hot coals, where it<br/>
disappeared. "Dross."| "And what is iron pyrites<br/>
worth?" "Nothing." "Nothing! why, there's a<br/>
man who owns a hill full of that in our town, and<br/>
I've married her!""
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What part of speech is man?" said a pedagogue<br/>
to a sailor boy pupil. "A verb sir," replied the lat-<br/>
ter. "A verb, is it?" said the teacher, with a sig-<br/>
nificant twist of his lips ; "please given an example"<br/>
"Man the yards!" was little Tarpaulins moment re-<br/>
sponse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Never meet trouble half way, but let him have<br/>
the whole walk for his pains. Perhaps he will give<br/>
up his visit before reaching your house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two dull and torpid natures may be aroused by<br/>
contact with each other; even a couple of dry sticks<br/>
rubbed together, will make a flame.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Moral beauty, the reflectiou of the soul in the<br/>
countenance, is as superior to superficial comeliness<br/>
as mind is to matter. Those who look good cannot<br/>
fail to be good-looking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lawsuit in Glastenbury, Conn., about a grind-<br/>
stone worth $6, has just been decided at Hartford<br/>
by a verdict of that amount, after it has cost the<br/>
contending parties $400.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Ah! Jemmy, Jemmy," said the kind-hearted<br/>
Dr. Ponsohby, bishop of Derry, to a drunken black-<br/>
smith. "I'm sorry to see you beginning your evil<br/>
course again, and, Jemmy, I am very anxious to<br/>
know what you intend to do with that fine lad, your<br/>
son?" "I intend, sir," said Jemmy, "to do for him<br/>
what you cannot do for your son"—"Eh! eh! how's<br/>
that—how's that?" To which Jemmy, with a burst<br/>
of genuine feeling, sir; I intend to make him a<br/>
better man than his father"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-16_12_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r17a">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MAY 16TH 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Fanny Kirchen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Rossini</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">760</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Oldb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Apr</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Noorul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">292</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Richard Cobden</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bischoff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Cargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Diamond City</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lubek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">252</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">276</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">445</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Fr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Gunboat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">299</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Eng Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Seng Tai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">483</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
