---
linkTitle: 'November 15th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 15th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 15th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 21
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 15th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 29.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Nov. 15th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last issue speaking of Her Majesty<br/>
the Queen of Great Britain, we used the<br/>
following sentence, viz;—"She was to witness<br/>
on August 26th the inauguration of a<br/>
memorial statue, in honor of the late prince<br/>
Consort." A copy of the paper was sent back,<br/>
by one in the highest authority here with the<br/>
above sentence under scored, and the fol-<br/>
lowing comment made in the margin—<br/>
"Christian idolaters act like Buddhist idol-<br/>
aters, in honor of the late Buddh".—In an-<br/>
other place in the margin he says, "The<br/>
worship of the image of Buddh of the<br/>
learned Siamese, is like the worship of the<br/>
crucified Jesus, and Mary etc. of the Ro-<br/>
man Catholics, and the respect of many<br/>
Europeans for the statue of their sovereigns.<br/>
but the worship of idols of Buddh celebrat-<br/>
ed as inspired or embodied by spirits called<br/>
phe, like most of the Laos and Cambodians<br/>
&c. can be called the act of idolatry. "These<br/>
comments were probably called forth by an<br/>
article on "Wet Visiting," which appeared<br/>
in our last issue. Whatever impression the<br/>
article may have been calculated to leave<br/>
upon the mind, we are justified in saying<br/>
that the writer of that article, has the most<br/>
profound respect for His Majesty the Su-<br/>
preme King of Siam, and had not the most<br/>
remote idea of classing him, among those<br/>
who may be denominated "Old Siam" but<br/>
has always looked upon him as the Great<br/>
Representative of "Young Siam."—We are<br/>
very glad, however to have these comments<br/>
from His Majesty as no one is more learned<br/>
upon the subject of the religion of his<br/>
country, than His Majesty. Any thing<br/>
that we may say in our columns which may<br/>
in any way refer to His Majesty, we hope<br/>
will always be characterised by that high<br/>
respect, which his very exalted position de-<br/>
mands. Our journal was not intended to<br/>
be in the strict sense of the term a religious<br/>
journal, but occasionally the subject creeps<br/>
in. We shall only therefore try to show<br/>
briefly the difference between the respect<br/>
which the good Queen of England shows<br/>
for the memory of her late royal husband<br/>
and the reverence which the Siamese show<br/>
for the images of Buddh. His Majesty dis-<br/>
claims for himself and the learned Siamese<br/>
the idea of being idolaters, and anything<br/>
which we can conscientiously do to help<br/>
them out of the scrape, we will most gladly<br/>
do it. Any discussion too, which may be<br/>
carried on in our columns, we trust will be<br/>
characterised on all sides by the best of<br/>
good humor; for when a man gets angry<br/>
in a fair discussion, it is evidence that he<br/>
is either advocating a bad cause, or that he<br/>
is unable to maintain his position. The re-<br/>
spect which the Queen of Great Britain<br/>
showed for her late royal husband, by hon-<br/>
oring with her presence the inauguration<br/>
of a statue to his memory was by no means<br/>
a religious reference. Prince Albert was<br/>
a very good man, and was very much be-<br/>
loved by his royal wife, and family, and al-<br/>
so by the whole British nation. Whilst<br/>
therefore the good Queen honored at Co-<br/>
burg his native place, the inauguration of<br/>
his memorial statue, by her presence, she<br/>
did not worship him, or consider it in any<br/>
way a religious act. She did not expect to<br/>
obtain any merit from such service. On<br/>
the contrary she is a firm believer in the re-<br/>
ligion of Christ, as revealed in the Bible. It<br/>
is said that a heathen Prince where he saw<br/>
that England was a great country, asked<br/>
her the secret of that greatness, she in re-<br/>
ply pointed to the Bible and said that was<br/>
the secret of Englands greatness. Buddh<br/>
on the other hand is the god of the Buddh-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ists, and when they bow before his image<br/>
they expect to make merit by it, to assist<br/>
them in the future world.  The one is an<br/>
act of respect, whilst the other is an act of<br/>
worship.—Roman catholics it is true do<br/>
use the crucifix, and images of the Virgin<br/>
etc. but Protestants of course look upon<br/>
that as a species of idolatry, a corruption<br/>
of the true religion, a relie of heathenism<br/>
brought into the church.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jesuitism.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 197)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The original "Company" was composed<br/>
of only ten chosen members with Ignatius<br/>
as their leader. Wise prophets declared<br/>
that " the company would prove to be that<br/>
decumen (10th vane) by which the bark<br/>
of the pirate Luther would be sunk." His-<br/>
tory has not quite verified the prediction<br/>
though as Macauley admits "the tide of the<br/>
battle was turned, and Protestantism was<br/>
beaten back from the foot of the Alps even<br/>
to the shores of the Baltic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The company was first formally organ-<br/>
ised, and the three vows of obedience, pov-<br/>
erty, and chastity, administered, August<br/>
12th 1534. The members being chiefly<br/>
young, some preparatory studies were<br/>
necessary, and it was not until three years<br/>
later that the Society really entered upon its<br/>
work at Venice. The first thing was to se-<br/>
cure the sanction, and authority of the<br/>
Pope (Paul III). By taking a fourth vow<br/>
of implicit obedience to the demands of the<br/>
sovereign Pontiff, they received his blessing<br/>
and immediately entered upon their miss-<br/>
ion. Free passports were granted them to<br/>
visit any part of the world on their errand<br/>
of love, they accordingly went forth, two<br/>
and two as preachers of the faith. Loyola,<br/>
Lainez and Faber, however, remained in<br/>
Venice, to more fully complete and perfect<br/>
the organisation. By vote, Loyola was elected<br/>
as General of the Order, which position<br/>
he retained until his death in 1556.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let us now attend briefly, first to the<br/>
Society itself, and then to some of its res-<br/>
ults. The Society is composed of four<br/>
distinct classes, the Professed (servants of<br/>
Pope,)— temporal and spiritual coadjutors,<br/>
(Priests and lay brethen, printers &c.)—-<br/>
Scholars and Novices, or those admitted<br/>
on probation for two years.  The General<br/>
is elected by vote of the Professed mem-<br/>
bers, and holds his office during life.  His<br/>
power is absolute as to the appointment of<br/>
all officials, the disposal of temporalities,<br/>
admission of fresh members into the So-<br/>
ciety, etc.  The first vow and virtue of<br/>
the Society is unqualified obedience to consti-<br/>
tuted authority.  This principle prevails a-<br/>
mong the four classes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their system of education was complete.<br/>
Every pupil was thoroughly examined be-<br/>
fore being admitted to the benches of the<br/>
company. As has been said, they tested the<br/>
quality of the metal before they undertook<br/>
to coin the circulating mediom. On one<br/>
occasion a candidate for admission, was put<br/>
though the ordeal of examination and failed<br/>
at all points, and was about to be dismissed<br/>
as a helpless blockhead, when they be-<br/>
thought to try him in Geometry, and Na-<br/>
ture at once responded; he retained his<br/>
place on the benche;—became a great<br/>
mathematician, and aided in constructing<br/>
the Gregorian calendar, while his pupil<br/>
Ricci went to repeat his lesson to the Chin-<br/>
ese, and "built there a mission on lines,<br/>
curves, and angles." From this accurate<br/>
knowledge of the mental quality and cap-<br/>
acity of each member, the General was al-<br/>
ways able to adopt the worker to his work.<br/>
As Steinmetz says, "square pegs in round<br/>
holes, or round pegs in square holes are<br/>
seldom seen in the history of the Society."<br/>
A system of free education was established<br/>
by the Jesuits throughout Europe, and<br/>
their schools soon became immensely pop-<br/>
lar, and were the great means by which<br/>
the solid growth and widening influence of<br/>
the Society were secured. At the death of<br/>
Loyola, in 1556, nineteen years after the<br/>
birth of the Society, the company numbered<br/>
2000 members; 4000 youths were under<br/>
Jesuit tuition, and nine provinces were<br/>
established, viz;—-Italy, Sicily, Germany,<br/>
France, Spain, Portugal, Asia, Africa, and<br/>
America. Not Romanista only but Pro-<br/>
testants from every land sent their children<br/>
to be instructed at Jesuit colleges. Among<br/>
the alumni of their universities are found<br/>
enrolled the names of some of the greatest<br/>
scholars-in Europe.  Lord Bacon declared<br/>
their schools as worthy to be taken as<br/>
models, and for two centuries they were just-<br/>
ly so regarded.  At the time of the partial<br/>
suppression of the Order, the King of<br/>
Prussia offered them protection affirming,<br/>
"I consider them as learned men whom it<br/>
it would be difficult to replace to educate<br/>
youth.  Among all the Catholic clergy in<br/>
my kingdom, the Jesuits alone are given to<br/>
letter."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The canonical writings of the Jesuits are<br/>
three; the Spiritual Exercises, Loyola's fa-<br/>
mous Letter on Obedience, and the Consti-<br/>
tutions.  The first was simply a drill book,<br/>
or manual of Church discipline.  It laid<br/>
down certain rules, and prescribed certain<br/>
duties to which every candidate for admis-<br/>
sion to the Society must conform, and<br/>
by the faithful compliance with which all<br/>
were certified of being made "meet for the<br/>
kingdom of heaven." Twenty eight days<br/>
were deemed amply sufficient to convert<br/>
the vilest sinner into the most virtuous<br/>
saint, the first week he must purify the lusts<br/>
of the flesh by bodily mortifications, scourg-<br/>
ings and fastings, while he occupies his<br/>
mind with a gloomy retrospect of sin. The<br/>
second week the study of the life and suf-<br/>
ferings of Christ is to absorb his attention,<br/>
and by close self scrutiny he decides what<br/>
profession he can engage in to the greatest<br/>
service of religion. The third week he<br/>
contemplated the gloom of our Saviour's<br/>
sepulchre and the abyss and wailings of the<br/>
damned, from which his death rescued us.<br/>
The fourth week the chrysalis saint bursts<br/>
forth into rapturous joy, glorifying the<br/>
Redeemer and singing peans of praise<br/>
to the most high God. This is the com-<br/>
plete Bible of Jesuitism. This method of<br/>
cure if duly applied to the soul is absolute-<br/>
ly infallible. However much the spirit may<br/>
be defiled by dross when cast into the fur-<br/>
nace, it is only pure gold when it comes<br/>
forth from it. As we have said, twenty<br/>
eight days was the original time allotted<br/>
for this purgation, but this period was after-<br/>
wards abbreviated to fifteen, and even ten<br/>
days, when the demands of business were<br/>
pressing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The entire system of religion embodied<br/>
"Exercises" was materialistic and sensuous<br/>
in the extreme. It consisted chiefly of<br/>
conjuring up before the mind representa-<br/>
tions of Christ in the garden—on the<br/>
Cross,—of heaven,—of hell, and of purga-<br/>
tory, and then devoutly meditating thereon.<br/>
It was what Isaac Taylor aptly calls—"An<br/>
asasatus of pictorial piety," and he hazards<br/>
the conjecture that Loyola drew the hint<br/>
for it from the illustrated Book of Martyrs,<br/>
which entertained him while in hospital.<br/>
There is at any rate abundant evidence<br/>
that the author had a very meagre ac-<br/>
quaintance with the Bible. But the secret<br/>
of the great strength of the system of<br/>
Jesuitism lay in their peculiar vow and<br/>
doctrine of Obedience. This doctrine is ful-<br/>
ly developed in a letter of Loyola's to the<br/>
Portuguese houses, written only three years<br/>
before his death. The doctrine simply re-<br/>
quired a complete "immolation of the is-<br/>
tellect." The Society is an absolute<br/>
monarchy, and its head has perfect jur-<br/>
isdiction over the whole man—body, in-<br/>
tellect and soul. We cannot do better<br/>
than to quote a paragraph from the above<br/>
letter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Obedience is the daughter of humility,<br/>
-—the nurse of charity,—-the sister of jus-<br/>
tice,-—the mother of brotherly concord, and<br/>
the enemy of self opinion;—-it is a guide<br/>
which never wanders; an oracle that can-<br/>
not deceive; the port of salvation, and the<br/>
mark which distinguishes you from all other<br/>
religious orders. There are two sorts of<br/>
obedience, the one imperfect—-the other<br/>
perfect. The imperfect considers if what<br/>
is commanded be just and reasonable, and<br/>
submits but in appearance to orders which<br/>
shock the understanding;—-the perfect, on<br/>
the contrary, is nearly blind—believes with-<br/>
out examining, that all the orders it recieves<br/>
are just,—-complies internally with the ex—<br/>
ection of them, and adds to the execution<br/>
the sacrifice of its own will to that of its<br/>
superior."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus absolute was the government which<br/>
the General exercised over the Society. The<br/>
Jesuit was taught from the initial point of<br/>
his connection with the Order, to yield him-<br/>
self to the will of his superior perinde cad-<br/>
aver,—and he learned his lesson well, for<br/>
with the unreasoning, passive obedience of<br/>
a corpse, or an automaton, he executed an<br/>
and every command of his superior. So<br/>
completely was the freedom and the man-<br/>
hood of the Jesuit vassal destroyed. Need<br/>
we wonder that under such a regime, his<br/>
moral sense became sadly blunted, and his<br/>
spiritual being yet more sadly distorted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We come next to speak of the actual<br/>
workings of the order, and shall conclude<br/>
with a few general remarks on the past and<br/>
probable future of Jesuitism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
C.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Weather
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the last year or more, we have<br/>
had a kind of "lusus naturae" in Siam,<br/>
the rains of last year were quite short of<br/>
The usual amount, and consequently the<br/>
rice crop was short. During the rainy sea-<br/>
son which has just about closed, up till Sep-<br/>
tember we had not near the amount of rain<br/>
we should have had. But when they got<br/>
rightly started, is appeared as difficult for<br/>
them to stop at the proper time. We<br/>
usually find the rains pretty well settled up,<br/>
and the N. E. Monsoon set in by the 1st of<br/>
November, but this time copious rains con-<br/>
tinued up till about the 10th. We heard<br/>
cries, of too much water, and a flood, and<br/>
rice rose slightly in price in consequence.<br/>
About the year 1828 it is said, the whole<br/>
country was flooded, for about two months,<br/>
and the crops were completely drowned<br/>
out.  Some of the natives began to be ap-<br/>
prehensive of another such flood.  During<br/>
the last few days of October, and the first<br/>
few in November the weather was oppres-<br/>
sively hot.  Although we generally have a<br/>
few such days during the lull in the mon-<br/>
soons, this year there appeared to be more<br/>
of them and they were unusually sultry.<br/>
Mosquitoes too, the pest of Siam, have been<br/>
unusually plenty, and ravenous for some-<br/>
time, so that it is almost impossible to have<br/>
any enjoyment in the evenings.  They gen-<br/>
erally appear to know a new-comer, and<br/>
having once singled him out, they show no<br/>
mercy; but this year they appear to be in-<br/>
discriminate in their attacks, and treat all<br/>
alike. For the last few days, the weather<br/>
appears to be settled, and the N. E. mon-<br/>
soon rightly set in, and in consequence<br/>
we have a change in the atmosphere, and have<br/>
also a taste of those cool "bracing breezes"<br/>
so grateful to Europeans in this latitude.<br/>
During this monsoon on account of the dry<br/>
breezes and the cool atmosphere we enjoy<br/>
a kind of respite from the mosquitoes. But<br/>
every season has its draw backs. The sud-<br/>
den change in the atmosphere has brought<br/>
the usual colds, generally prevalent at this<br/>
season. Those once past however Europeans<br/>
may expect for the next three months to<br/>
enjoy the most pleasant season in the clim-<br/>
ate of Siam. It is also the best time to<br/>
enjoy a tour through the country or down<br/>
the sea-coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Incident in Paris.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1845, while in Paris, I occasionally<br/>
dined with an American gentleman of<br/>
wealth. He gave the most sumptuous din-<br/>
ners, and these were washed down with<br/>
costly wines and liquors of every descrip-<br/>
tion. Among the light wines most relished,<br/>
and especially recommended by our Amer-<br/>
ican Consul, Mr. L. Draper, who was gen-<br/>
erally one of the guests, was the Lafitte wine<br/>
of Bordeaux. This was a very superior<br/>
kind of claret. So much was said in its<br/>
favor that I, then being a wine-bibbler, was<br/>
anxious to take to America with me a sup-<br/>
ply of this superior article, and our host<br/>
kindly gave me a letter of introduction to<br/>
the Messrs. Lafitte at Bordeaux, whither I<br/>
was soon going.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after arriving in that city I called<br/>
upon the Messrs. Lafitte, and was by them<br/>
introduced to their business manager, Mr.<br/>
Good. He accompanied me through their<br/>
extensive wine vaults, and descanted enthu-<br/>
siastically upon the peculiar qualities of<br/>
their vineyards, the superiority of their<br/>
brands of wine, etc. I tasted several sam-<br/>
ples of this wine, and was quite favorably<br/>
impressed. The vintages of 1830 and '31<br/>
particularly pleased me. Mr Good de-<br/>
clared that brand of wine was like oil,<br/>
and I agreed with him. In fact I fully re-<br/>
solved to order at least a couple of pipes of<br/>
Lafitte wine for America, before quitting<br/>
Bordeaux.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next day I met an English friend,<br/>
and invited him to spend the evening at my<br/>
hotel, and indulge in cigars and a bottle of<br/>
Lafitte wine. He was punctual, and the<br/>
refreshments were duly ordered. An old<br/>
bottle of Lafitte wine was produced. It was<br/>
covered with mold and cobwebs, which,<br/>
upon being carefully removed by the wait-<br/>
er, discovered a label nearly destroyed by<br/>
mildew, but which, with some difficulty,<br/>
we deciphered to read:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Vindu Lafitte, 1831."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our mouths watered as we reflected that<br/>
here was a bottle of this genuine and cele-<br/>
brated claret, fourteen years old. The cork<br/>
was drawn, and our claret glasses, as thin<br/>
almost as the sheet of paper upon which I<br/>
am writing, were filled. Then, as is inva-<br/>
riably the custom, we each grasped the<br/>
bowl of the thin glass in our hands and<br/>
held it there a few minutes, in order that<br/>
the warmth of our hands should impart a<br/>
similar temperature to the wine, and thus<br/>
bring out the taste of the grape.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then, according to custom, each of us<br/>
very deliberately took a large mouthful of<br/>
the wine, and swallowed it very slowly, in<br/>
order that we might enjoy the full flavor of<br/>
the grape from which it was made.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Fruity," remarked my English friend,<br/>
with charming gusto, as the last of the<br/>
mouthful slipped down his throat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Very," I replied, with great unction, as<br/>
the last of my mouthful went through the<br/>
same process.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now this was all according to the estab-<br/>
lished practice of drinking good claret<br/>
wine. Try it in London, Paris, Vienna St.<br/>
Petersburgh, anywhere, where good wine<br/>
is drank, and where gentlemen pride them-<br/>
selves upon being connoisseurs, and it will<br/>
always be found indispensable in drinking<br/>
good wine to pour it into very thin glasses,<br/>
indispensable to warm the glass of wine in<br/>
the hand, indispensable to taste the grape<br/>
plainly, indispensable for one gentleman to<br/>
exclaim "Fruity," and equally indispen-<br/>
sable for another gentlemen to smack his<br/>
lips and respond "Very."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We spent the evening joyously, in smok-<br/>
ing our cigars, relating anecdotes, cracking<br/>
jokes, and exhausting our delicious bottles<br/>
of "fruity" Lafitte. The latter article was<br/>
found to be so rare and delightful that we<br/>
agreed to spend the next evening in the<br/>
same place, and in the same pleasing occu-<br/>
pation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following evening at eight o'clock<br/>
found my English friend and myself seated<br/>
in my parlor, witnessing the wiping of dust,<br/>
cobwebs, and mold from a bottle by the<br/>
same waiter, and revealing to our delighted<br/>
eyes the pleasant inscription:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Vindu Lafitte, 1831."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The same drawing of the cork, the same<br/>
warming of the glass of wine in the hand,<br/>
the same exclamation "fruity," and the<br/>
same response "very," were the proper<br/>
preliminaries to another evening of antici-<br/>
pated enjoyment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each of us had drunk our glass of this<br/>
modern nectar, and each had expatiated<br/>
in the warmest terms upon its delicious<br/>
flavor and peculiar merits. Our glasses<br/>
were again filled and emptied. We felt<br/>
grateful that we were thus especially and<br/>
supremely blessed. I had fully resolved<br/>
to order three pipes of this wine instead<br/>
of two, from the excellent Mr. Good, agent<br/>
of the excellent Messrs. Lafitte, proprietors<br/>
of the super-excellent clarets;, when, while<br/>
I was in the act of filling our glasses a<br/>
third time, I was startled by something<br/>
that made my hair almost stand on end,<br/>
and which caused me nearly to drop the<br/>
bottle from my trembling hand. Had the<br/>
ghost of Bacchus risen from the glass and<br/>
seized me by the nose I could not have<br/>
been more astonished; had the spirit of<br/>
mischief emerged from the bottle and stuck<br/>
me through and through with pins, I could<br/>
not have been more outrageously angry.<br/>
I placed the battle again on the table, fell<br/>
back in my chair, and pointing to the label<br/>
on the bottle, I remarked, in a semi-sepul-<br/>
chral voice, "Good heavens! look at that<br/>
label!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My friend's eyes almost started from<br/>
their sockets; he gave an audible groan,<br/>
and his right hand involuntarily found it-<br/>
self pressing upon the pit of his stomach,<br/>
as he glanced toward the label, evidently<br/>
expecting to find it inscribed with the<br/>
word "Poison!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But, no, it was not as bad as that.<br/>
There it was, a sort of ornamental label,<br/>
with the words, rendered indistinct by<br/>
mold and age, "Vinda Lafitte."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Look at this," I exclaimed, pointing<br/>
to a light colored streak running diagonally<br/>
across the label, seeming to have been<br/>
caused by the scratch of a nail drawn brisk-<br/>
ly over it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Don't you remember," said I, that last<br/>
night, while we were drinking our wine<br/>
and telling our stories, I was playing with<br/>
my knife, and that, by frequently drawing<br/>
its point across that label on the bottle,<br/>
I finally scratched clean through the paper!<br/>
Don't you see that this is the identical<br/>
label!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I would swear it on a thousand Bibles,"<br/>
exclaimed my English friend, with ener-<br/>
getic indignation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was quite as indignant, and rang the<br/>
bell violently.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This French scoundrel of a landlord<br/>
has played us a nice rick," I remarked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes," replied my friend; "his cobwebs<br/>
and imitation mold were well laid on."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This is doubtless common 'vin ordi-<br/>
naire,' worth about six sous a bottle, in-<br/>
stead of the fifteen francs which he charges<br/>
for Lafitte."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No doubt of it," replied my friend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And yet we thought it was quit 'fruity,'"<br/>
I remarked, with a smile, notwithstanding<br/>
my anger at the imposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, you called it so; but I confess I<br/>
thought it was very different from that we<br/>
drank last night," replied my English<br/>
friend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Come, come, that won't do," I respond-<br/>
ed, determined not to be saddled with all<br/>
the ignorance which both of us had be-<br/>
trayed; "you distinctly pronounced it<br/>
'fruity.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh. that was last night."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Certainly, but it was to-night also.<br/>
We have both been nicely sold, and there<br/>
is no use trying to dodge it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By this time the "garçon" arrived.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Send the landlord here instantly," said I.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The waiter disappeared, and the landlord<br/>
soon entered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My indignation returned, and, putting<br/>
on the air of a connoisseur, I poured out<br/>
a glass of wine, and asked the landlord to<br/>
drink it, and give me an opinion of its<br/>
quality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He drank it very leisurely, smacking his<br/>
lips at each swallow, and then remarked:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Magnifique! Glorious Vin du Lafitte,<br/>
more than a dozen years old!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Vin ordinaire, two months old," I ex-<br/>
claimed, with no small degree of anger at<br/>
his impudence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You are joking," he replied, pointing<br/>
to the label; "you see this is the Lafitte<br/>
of 1831."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is an imposition and a swindle, a<br/>
cheat and a robbery. Don't you think I<br/>
know what wine is!" I exclaimed, assum-<br/>
ing the air of a man who had been in the<br/>
wine trade all his life. "I tell you this is<br/>
the vin ordinaire, worth but one franc per<br/>
gallon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The host looked amazed, and tried to as-<br/>
sume an air of injured innocence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My dear sir," said he, "you forget that<br/>
you are in the city of Bordeaux, and that<br/>
the house of Messrs. Lafitte is only across<br/>
the street, opposite my hotel. It is not<br/>
possible to make a mistake about the wine.<br/>
Besides, did you not see the bottle was<br/>
covered with mold and cobwebs when<br/>
it came from my cellar!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Finding that my assumed knowledge of<br/>
wine would have no effect on the landlord,<br/>
and reflecting that he probably knew how<br/>
successfully he had humbugged us the night<br/>
previous with the same kind of wine, I<br/>
pointed out the label to him, and, telling<br/>
him all the circumstances, convinced him<br/>
that it was impossible to deceive us any<br/>
longer. The moment he saw that further<br/>
denial or prevarication was useless, he<br/>
smiled, assumed a patronizing air, patted<br/>
me on the shoulder and exclaimed:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Monsieur Barnum, you are one very<br/>
sharp Yankee. I shall acknowledge to<br/>
you this is vin ordinaire, but you shall<br/>
have immediately one, two, three bottles<br/>
of magnifique Lafitte for nothing. But I<br/>
shall tell you one thing. I have kept this<br/>
hotel nine years, and have sold many<br/>
thousand bottles of wine for 'Lafitte,' and<br/>
I never sell but twelve dozen real Lafitte<br/>
in my whole life! You are one Americain<br/>
with both eyes open!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I accepted his apology, and one bottle<br/>
of his "Magnifique Lafitte." But the<br/>
charm was broken. I doubt whether the<br/>
last bottle was ever in the cellars of Lafitte,<br/>
but, whether or not, neither my friend nor<br/>
myself ventured to pronounce its contents<br/>
"fruity."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This incident caused me to change my<br/>
mind in regard to taking wine to America.<br/>
I concluded, if I must be cheated, I might<br/>
as well have that operation performed by<br/>
my own countrymen as by foreigners. But<br/>
the lesson was not wholly lost on me I<br/>
soon afterward quit wine-drinking alto-<br/>
gether. There is no denying the fact that<br/>
imagination leads us into many strange<br/>
blunders, and in nothing more easily than<br/>
in regard to the qualities of wines and<br/>
liquors.-—P. T. Barnum.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having in our last Siamese issue employ-<br/>
ed, the figure Old and Young Siam, I have<br/>
been suprised to learn that some persons<br/>
whom I had firmly fixed in my mind as<br/>
belonging to the class I mean by Young<br/>
Siam have strangely fancied that because<br/>
they were rather aged in the ordinary sense<br/>
of the phrase Old and Young, that I must<br/>
regard them as being old in the figurative<br/>
sense. I am very sorry that I have thus<br/>
been the occasion of displeasing any of our<br/>
friends and readers some of whom I regard<br/>
not only as our best patrons, but also as<br/>
the main pillars of Young Siam. In this<br/>
class I have unhesitatingly placed His Ma-<br/>
jesty the supreme king of Siam. By Old<br/>
Siam, I mean all the rulers and subjects of<br/>
Siam who are still strenuous for all or most<br/>
of the old ways and fashions and customs<br/>
of Siam in regard to government, literature,<br/>
science commerce, slavery and religion-—all<br/>
such as think that the ancients knew more<br/>
them the moderns and that hence it is folly<br/>
to deviate much from the old track of their<br/>
ancestors. In other words, all such as be-<br/>
lieve and act according to the dogmas that<br/>
the human race are on the great decline of<br/>
ages, and that it will be useless to resist<br/>
the abridging tendences of the decline as<br/>
regards the age, the stature, the mind or<br/>
morals of mankind. In this class I have<br/>
been wont to place all the old school Bud-<br/>
dhists who still cling to all or to most of<br/>
the fancies and nonsense of Trie P'oom<br/>
and a multitude of other religious<br/>
books which the New School Buddists<br/>
have cast overboard as being enemies alike<br/>
of all improvement in true knowledge and<br/>
religion. Now who does not know that<br/>
His Majesty the supreme king is the found-<br/>
er of that New school, and that as such<br/>
he has become the progenitor of what I<br/>
denominate Young Siam. Having known<br/>
him more than 30 years, I can testify that<br/>
when a young man, a chief priest in a Bud-<br/>
dhist temple, he evinced marked evidence<br/>
that he was born for a more enlightened<br/>
age than any before in Siamese history,<br/>
and would, when placed on the Throne of<br/>
the Prabat Somdets, stand much higher<br/>
among the nations of Asia than any or even<br/>
all of his royal predecessors put together.<br/>
Every year from that time to his accession<br/>
was a joyful witness of his progress in lit-<br/>
erature and the arts and sciences by which<br/>
he became signally well prepared to rule<br/>
both the church and the state of the Siamese.<br/>
And from the time of his accession to the<br/>
present there have arisen many living and<br/>
enduring witnesses to the correctness of<br/>
our judgment that His Majesty is richly<br/>
worthy of being accounted the main pillar<br/>
of Young Siam. One of the first and<br/>
most notice-able witnesses to this, is the fact<br/>
that His Majesty very soon after coming<br/>
to the throne, invited one Missionary lady<br/>
from each of the three Protestant Missions<br/>
in the city, to teach the English language<br/>
and European science in the royal harem,<br/>
and made an experiment of their teaching<br/>
for a period of about three years. Though<br/>
it be true that he dispensed with their ser-<br/>
vices from fear that they would proselyte<br/>
his wives and children to the christian faith,<br/>
it did not depose him from the high posi-<br/>
tion of being father of Young Siam. He<br/>
quickly obtained the services of an accom-<br/>
plished English lady as teacher of his<br/>
children, who did not feel it to be her duty<br/>
to make any special effort to teach the<br/>
christian religion in connection with her<br/>
services in the royal palace. And under-<br/>
her tuition all His Majesty's children, aged<br/>
from 8 to 15 years being some 40 or 50<br/>
in number, are now being trained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Witness also the encouragement His Ma-<br/>
jesty has ever given to new models of ship<br/>
building, by which Old Sian in the line<br/>
of Chinese merchant Junks, and war Junks<br/>
has sloughed herself and we see her old<br/>
skin eaten of white ants and rotting all<br/>
about her old docks in the city and the<br/>
provinces. And we see but recently come<br/>
out of that old chryilitic state, a fleet of<br/>
more than 100 square rigged merchant<br/>
men of good model, 8 men of war-steamers<br/>
and 20 trading and pleasure yacht steamers.<br/>
Witness also the new treaties of mutual<br/>
friendship and commerce which His Ma-<br/>
jesty has gloriously inaugurated with no<br/>
less than eight of the western nations, by<br/>
which the world is being blessed and Siam<br/>
greatly enriched and improved. Witness<br/>
too, the two Embassies which His Majesty<br/>
has already sent to Europe and the one he<br/>
has in contemplation to send to the U. S.<br/>
Am.—the new road also and canals he has<br/>
already caused to be made, and the many<br/>
others he sincerely purposes to make, and<br/>
the royal Mint he has established, and the<br/>
improvements he manifests a determina-<br/>
tion, though rather slowly developed, of<br/>
making in its machinery and its issues.<br/>
With such substantial and enduring wit-<br/>
nesses by his side, His Majesty need not fear<br/>
that his contemporary journalists, or future<br/>
historians will ever think of classing him<br/>
with Old Siam, provided he does not halt<br/>
in his progress of improvement and take<br/>
some retrograde track.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I do not wonder that His Majesty is un-<br/>
willing at present to adopt all the proposed<br/>
plans of railroad and telegraph lines that<br/>
are urged upon him. I agree with him,<br/>
that the time has not yet come for Siam to<br/>
launch out largely in this direction. I<br/>
would have her make a beginning in these<br/>
improvements on a small scale as she did<br/>
in 1834 in building square rigged vessels<br/>
and in 1854 in the use of steam power ap-<br/>
plied to boats. I am only sorry that His<br/>
Majesty feels sometimes so much annoyed<br/>
by the contin?al and, as it seems to me,<br/>
injudicious pressure of this subject upon<br/>
him, as to lead him to speak and write im-<br/>
patiently and sometimes with bitter ridicule<br/>
against these improvements, which must be<br/>
introduced into Siam sooner or later if she<br/>
is ever to stand up with dignity among the<br/>
family of nations. But I do not take this<br/>
to be a true index of His Majesty's heart<br/>
and purposes, as the vane about the chang-<br/>
ing of the monsoon is by no means a cer-<br/>
tain index of the direction of the wind for<br/>
the succeeding six months. They are sim-<br/>
ply out-bursts of impatience, which will<br/>
I trust soon give way, as in multitudes of<br/>
instances before in His Majesty's illustrious<br/>
career, to a sound policy in the end.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am one who believes that His Majesty<br/>
is at heart much more in favor of Chris-<br/>
tianity, even, than he has the name of be-<br/>
ing, and that but for the trammels which<br/>
his oath of office has thrown about him, he<br/>
would show himself far more liberal in this<br/>
direction than he now does. But even now<br/>
how much does the king distinguish him-<br/>
self in his liberality in this regard above<br/>
nearly all heathen monarchs? How<br/>
freely and widely has he opened the doors<br/>
of his kingdom to all prosyleting influences<br/>
among his subjects, honoring no foreign<br/>
influence more highly than that of Chris-<br/>
tians? I would have this put to His Ma-<br/>
jesty's credit as the father of Young Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The European summary bears the same<br/>
uninteresting feature of the previous mail.<br/>
The principle pleasing aspect is that every-<br/>
thing looks for the most part peaceful.<br/>
The Courts of England and France are still de-<br/>
voted to pleasure. H. B. Majesty, and the<br/>
royal family, including the Prince, and<br/>
Princess of Wales, and the Prince, and<br/>
Princess Louis of Hesse, are enjoying them-<br/>
selves in the Northern Highlands. The<br/>
Imperial Family of France are still at Biar-<br/>
ritz. The rumoured ministerial Changes<br/>
are contradicted by the Moniteur. Rath-<br/>
er a grave correspondence is going on be-<br/>
tween France and Prussia in relation to the<br/>
Ott affair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle thing transpiring in the<br/>
United States is the trial of Wirtz, for the<br/>
torture, and slow murder by starvation, and<br/>
otherwise of the Union prisoners, who were<br/>
confined at Andersonville. In the first in-<br/>
dictment Gen. Lee, and several others were<br/>
included, but President Johnson dismissed<br/>
the. trial, and ordered a new indictment,<br/>
from which all the names except Wirtz were<br/>
left out. Some heart rending things, have<br/>
come to light during the trial, but it is<br/>
evident that Wirtz was only the instrument<br/>
of his superiors, and it appears hard that<br/>
he should suffer alone, whilst the real in-<br/>
stigators of the cruelty are permitted to go<br/>
free. Gen. Winder appears to be more at<br/>
fault, than Wirtz, and the chief instig-<br/>
ators were undoubted of Jeff. Davis and<br/>
R. E. Lee. Time appears to soften down<br/>
public opinion against the Arch Rebel him-<br/>
self, and it is now probable that should he<br/>
be even condemned for treason, he would<br/>
not be executed. The Virginians seem to<br/>
be unwilling to part with their great chief<br/>
R. E. Lee, and to prevent his going to Eu-<br/>
rope as he intended, the trustees of Wash-<br/>
ington college, Va. have elected him Pre-<br/>
sident of that institution, which he has ac-<br/>
cepted. He seems to be more humble<br/>
than many of the other rebel leaders. It is<br/>
also certain that, at the outbreak of the re-<br/>
rebellion it was not so much the rebellion, he<br/>
followed as Virginia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That state seceded and from his peculiar<br/>
views of state rights, he was bound to go<br/>
with her. Once in the vortex of rebellion,<br/>
he was lead to do many things at which in<br/>
ordinary times he would have shuddered,<br/>
and for which how humble soever he may<br/>
now be, he ought to receive some punish-<br/>
ment. There is quite a contrast between<br/>
him and Gen. Thomas. Both are Virgin-<br/>
ians, and at the outbreak of the rebellion,<br/>
Lee was a Colonel, and Thomas a Lieuten-<br/>
ant in the regular army. Lee resigned, joined<br/>
the rebellion and became its great Chief-<br/>
tian. Thomas remained loyal, and if he<br/>
was not the greatest military leader of the<br/>
Union, he was among the greatest. Twice<br/>
he preserved one of the best armies of the<br/>
Union from destruction, where his superior<br/>
officer had abandoned it, and when Sherman<br/>
started on his great campaign across Geor-<br/>
gia, he left Thomas to attend to Hood, and<br/>
how effectually he did it.  He is now one<br/>
of the most beloved and honored sons of<br/>
his country.  Lee on the other hand al-<br/>
though pardoned, might even be looked up-<br/>
on with distrust.  He is however eminent-<br/>
ly qualified in many respec?ts, for the liter-<br/>
ary position to which he has been elected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A delegation of prominent citizens re-<br/>
presenting nine Southern states have called<br/>
upon President Johnson, to express their<br/>
allegiance to the constitution, and the Un-<br/>
ion.  The President on the other hand as-<br/>
sures them, that the Government have no<br/>
disposition to deal harshly with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_5_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
EXTREMELY POLITE.—A young of very<br/>
polite address, whose husband had lately<br/>
died, was visited soon after by the minister<br/>
of the parish, who inquired, as usual about her<br/>
husband's health, when she replied, with a<br/>
peculiar smile, "He's dead, I thank you."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_6_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Christianity vs. Buddhism
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
In answer to B. vs. C.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are much pleased with the gentle<br/>
spirit and frankness evinced by the writer<br/>
of the article in our last issue headed Budd-<br/>
hism vs. Christianity. He proves himself to<br/>
be a gentleman of rare occurrence among<br/>
Siamese Lords. We hope ourselves to<br/>
profit by the truly good example of our<br/>
correspondent in this regard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Before attempting to reply directly to<br/>
the questions which he has propounded,<br/>
we would remark that he seems to regard<br/>
at quite unanswerable the most important<br/>
questions we put to a friend of Buddhism<br/>
and has consequently passed them over in<br/>
silence. But he has started others which<br/>
he seems to think will greatly puzzle us to<br/>
answer, concluding doubtless, that if they<br/>
are not thoroughly set aside they must stand<br/>
as insuperable objections to our idea, that<br/>
all the great intellectual lights of the world<br/>
come directly or indirectly from the Chris-<br/>
tian religion; or in other words from the<br/>
Bible. Our antagonist professes not to be-<br/>
lieve that Europe is indebted to the Chris-<br/>
tian religion for her superior amount of<br/>
intelligence and practical wisdom. He has<br/>
heard that "there are many in Europe who<br/>
do not hold to the Christian religion, and<br/>
who have light and knowledge just the same<br/>
as those who hold it." Upon making this<br/>
statement he asks "what light is this that<br/>
shines and gives them prosperity, pray?"<br/>
This he evidently thinks is a stunning ques-<br/>
tion. But we do not feel it to be such at<br/>
all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply we beg leave first to correct the<br/>
impression he has in his mind, that "there<br/>
are many in Europe who do not hold to the<br/>
Christian religion," The truth is, and we<br/>
have a world full of evidence to bear us<br/>
out in the statement, that there is not more<br/>
than one in a thousand in all Europe of<br/>
the stamp to which our antagonist has re-<br/>
ferred. Every kingdom, every province,<br/>
every city, every village, every little com-<br/>
munity throughout all that land of light and<br/>
power is a Christian community. That is,<br/>
the vast masses of the people believe in one<br/>
living, almighty, and eternal God the Father<br/>
of all mankind, and that Jesus Christ his<br/>
son came into the world to save sinners.<br/>
But while this is a fact that cannot be<br/>
controverted, it must be confessed that the<br/>
great masses of the people of Europe do not<br/>
hold to the Christian religion in the sense<br/>
of obeying the instructions of Christ. They<br/>
are only Christians in the sense that the<br/>
masses of the Siamese are Buddhists, but<br/>
do not care to observe strictly its teachings,<br/>
And such nominal Christians in Europe, as<br/>
our antagonist concedes, have much greater<br/>
light and knowledge than the masses who<br/>
are born and educated in Buddhist coun-<br/>
tries. "What light is this" our Buddhist<br/>
advocate enquires.?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We answer, It is the light which has em-<br/>
anated directly or indirectly from the Bible,<br/>
that wonderful book of light which the<br/>
Lord Jesus Christ has given them. Under<br/>
the light and influence of that Book they<br/>
were all born and educated. All their<br/>
parents had been more or less illuminated<br/>
by that book, and they reflected their light<br/>
upon the children. All the schools, and<br/>
academies, and colleges in which the chil-<br/>
dren were educated were Christian schools<br/>
to a greater or less extent. Not one of their<br/>
teachers, probably, certainly not more than one<br/>
in a thousand would have been at all willing<br/>
to be called a disbeliever in God or Christ his<br/>
son. Now if there be at the present time<br/>
one in a thousand or even more in Europe<br/>
of her sons in other parts of the world<br/>
who do not hold to the Christian religion,<br/>
and yet have as much light and power of<br/>
intellect as true Christians generally possess,<br/>
we most confidently say they owe mainly that<br/>
distinction above the people of Buddhist<br/>
countries to the Christian religion. Just as a<br/>
Buddhist young man going to Europe and<br/>
being educated at Oxford University and<br/>
returning after 10 years to Siam still a con-<br/>
firmed Buddhist, would have much more<br/>
knowledge and power than any educated at<br/>
the wats, and that because he had been<br/>
educated in the light of Christianity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now is it not a most notable fact that<br/>
wherever Christianity is successfully plant-<br/>
ed, and becomes wide spread, filling the<br/>
land, and influencing powerfully human<br/>
governments, there you will invariably find<br/>
the greatest prosperity, among men—the<br/>
greatest development of intellect—the best<br/>
state of morals, and the most powerful<br/>
governments. To what can it be attribu-<br/>
able but to the influence of Christianity?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is still another obstacle in the<br/>
way of our Buddhist friend to believing in<br/>
the superior utility of the Christian re-<br/>
ligion, and that is the poor and dwarfish<br/>
examples he has seen among the natives<br/>
of this country wh? are professing Chris-<br/>
tians. Concerning such he says, "that he<br/>
has not seen them have any prosperity, on<br/>
the contrary they are much in debt and in<br/>
slavery. Why does not that light come<br/>
and shine on them, better than on those<br/>
who are not Christians?" Our answer is,<br/>
that if this statement of his be a true one<br/>
it is because that they are only Christians<br/>
in name and not in heart. In other words<br/>
they are more hypocrites so that according<br/>
to the words of Christ, the light of the<br/>
gospel shined in darkness upon them, "and<br/>
the darkness comprehended it not." And<br/>
it is much to be feared that most of those<br/>
who have made a profession of Christianity<br/>
under the teaching of Protestant missionaries<br/>
are of this class, and that nine hundred<br/>
and ninety nine in a thousand of the people<br/>
under Roman catholic Jeautism in all Siam<br/>
are of the same stamp.  We would beg<br/>
our Buddhist advocate not to refer to such<br/>
at all as examples of the degree of light<br/>
and prosperity which Christianity imports<br/>
to individuals and communities and states<br/>
that truly believe and obey the teachings of<br/>
Christ. Such are but false witnesses against<br/>
Christianity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If our friend would have a glance at<br/>
what a little of the true lew of Christianity<br/>
will do among an idolatrous people after<br/>
due time is given to it to work, let him look at<br/>
the beginning of the English nation, when<br/>
all the people of her isles were wading as<br/>
deep in heathenism as any of the Budd-<br/>
hist nations. Let him look at all Europe<br/>
which was once sunk in heathenism and ig-<br/>
norance. Let him look to more modern<br/>
instances of the power of Christianity to<br/>
elevate an noble the most degraded idol-<br/>
aters the world ever saw.—I mean the Sand-<br/>
wich islanders. Only fifty years ago they<br/>
were far below the Siamese. But now they<br/>
are above them in general knowledge and<br/>
they are classed among the enlightened<br/>
Christian nations. Let our Buddhist ad-<br/>
vocate come still nearer home and look in<br/>
upon his neighbors the Karens, whom the<br/>
Siamese are wont to despise as ignorant<br/>
woodsend. Let him listen to the meads of<br/>
praise which the English Commissioners in<br/>
Burmah are frequently giving them touch-<br/>
ing their rapid advancement in literature<br/>
practical wisdom and influence under the<br/>
teachings of the Christian Missionaries a-<br/>
mong them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But our friend in extenuation of the<br/>
great mental darkness, which he seems<br/>
to concede does indeed reign over all<br/>
Buddhist countries, says, "Buddhism is<br/>
very deep and intricate, and difficult to<br/>
be understood." If so then surely it is a<br/>
religion not designed by its author to benefit<br/>
the great masses of mankind. It is not like<br/>
Christianity" which a wayfaring man<br/>
though a fool may read " and understand<br/>
even when he runneth. And this testimony<br/>
of our Buddhist advocate we fully believe<br/>
is a fair one, and hence we draw from it one<br/>
of our strongest arguments against Budd-<br/>
hism as having come from any pure and<br/>
benevolent being. Surely if Buddha were<br/>
as wise, good, and powerful as his friends<br/>
believe him to have been, he would have<br/>
taught a religion that could be easily un-<br/>
derstood by children as well as men, by the<br/>
masses as well as by a few of the marvel-<br/>
ously studious and selfdenying. But ac-<br/>
cording to our antagonist a man must first<br/>
annihilate himself, as it were, "become<br/>
indifferent to every thing," before he can<br/>
hope to understand Buddhism. In other<br/>
words "It is only those who have a<br/>
firm unshaken belief in it, that can live<br/>
up to it at all." Hence Buddhism<br/>
offers no-aid to any who have any human<br/>
sensibility remaining in their souls when<br/>
they pass into the future state. If such be<br/>
Buddhism no wonder its advocate con-<br/>
cludes that it would be useless, in the pres-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ent enlightened age of the world to "go<br/>
abroad and teach it in other countries." It<br/>
not according to his own fable a vast<br/>
"bundle of straw" without even a kernal<br/>
of good grain in it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We most earnestly pray that our gentle-<br/>
manly friend, and advocate of this system<br/>
may see it as we do and forsake it for<br/>
Christianity, by which he may receive al-<br/>
mighty aid to enable him to resist the de-<br/>
praved will, and overcome the world the<br/>
flesh and the devil, and reap at death life<br/>
everlasting.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Arrivals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle local event which has tran-<br/>
spired during the fortnight was the arrival<br/>
and departure of the steamer Chow Phya.<br/>
H. Alabaster Fsq. Interpreter to H. B. M.<br/>
Consulate who left here about a year ago<br/>
for a visit home was one of the passengers<br/>
per Chow Phya. One of the most pleasing<br/>
features connected with Mr Alabaster's re-<br/>
turn is that he has brought Mrs Alabaster<br/>
with him. G. W. Virgin Esq. also returned<br/>
per Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr Thomas Millar who left this some<br/>
three years ago has also arrived, Mr Millar<br/>
came via China.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The future prospects of America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Toronto Globe, of a recent date,<br/>
writes as follows:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With their characteristic readiness to<br/>
drive a trade the merchants and people of<br/>
the United States will not be long in get-<br/>
ting into a position to meet their custom-<br/>
ers, on the other side of the Atlantic, at<br/>
least half way. With peace restored at the<br/>
South, and millions of skilled cultivators<br/>
ready to work for wages, the plantation of<br/>
the South may soon be made to bloom with<br/>
cotton, if the dominant party there only<br/>
will that it shall be so, by giving less atten-<br/>
tion to politics and more to work. A rich<br/>
harvest of prosperity is before them, if they<br/>
will cordially aquiesce in and carry out the<br/>
maxim that "the labourer is worthy of his<br/>
hire," and attempt no longer to live upon<br/>
the unrequited toil of the African. Never<br/>
were better prospect for recovering from<br/>
the disasters of a war before any people than<br/>
those which now present themselves to the<br/>
people of the cotton growing States.  Eng-<br/>
land, France, the Northern States, and Ca-<br/>
nada, want their cotton; and they are wil-<br/>
ling to pay liberally for it. If they would<br/>
but cease their bickerings about caste, they<br/>
would soon reap a rich reward. Vessels,<br/>
flying the flags of all nations, would crowd<br/>
their harbours to exchange commodities<br/>
with them, giving occupation to flotillas of<br/>
steamers and barges upon their rivers, and<br/>
to railways yet unbuilt. And, in a very<br/>
few years, they would find wealth pouring<br/>
into their coffers, from all parts of the world<br/>
under the free-labour system as it never<br/>
could do under the blighting system to<br/>
which they have been so long, so blindly,<br/>
and so almost hopelessly wedded.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. St. Cyr Jul-<br/>
ien in our firm ceased from this date, and<br/>
Mr. T. M. Alloin will sign by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam<br/>
Nov. 1st 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE will be exposed for sale by pub-<br/>
lic auction on Thursday next the 16th inst.<br/>
at 10 o'clock a. m. the Household Furniture,<br/>
Books, Boats, and other Sundry articles<br/>
belonging to Jno. GUNN & Co. at their re-<br/>
sidence, Koh Kwai; consisting of Tables,<br/>
Chairs, Couches, Toilet Tables, Looking<br/>
Glasses, Bedsteads, Mattresses, Pillows,<br/>
Pillow Cases and Sheets, Crockery Ware,<br/>
Glasses, Lamps, Knives and Forks, (1 set<br/>
new and very superior), Table Covers &c.<br/>
&c. &c.<br/>
Several fine Engravings and Paintings,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Grand Piano Forte by Broadwood,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6 Almirahs,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2 Book Cases,<br/>
A valuable selection of Books, Office Fur-<br/>
niture, including a Patent Safe, Copying<br/>
press, and Writing Desks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Double barrelled fowling piece by<br/>
Westley Richards cost £40 (new)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Revolver by Deane and Adams
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Four oared gig ("BLUE JACKET")
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 {{< news/indent2 >}}do{{< news/indent2 >}}do ("NEW BOAT")
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 {{< news/indent2 >}}do{{< news/indent2 >}}do ("SHANNON")
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Six oared{{< news/indent1 >}}do ("NO NAME")
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Run Keng four chows new, and in<br/>
good order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Auctioneers.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 11th November, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Don't write Poetry.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following advice can be best appre-<br/>
ciated by editors. We find it in an ex-<br/>
change paper:-—"Don't write poetry. If<br/>
you can not help it, if it sings in your<br/>
head and will be heard, why then there is<br/>
no other way but to put it upon paper,<br/>
and send it to the printer. But try to<br/>
help it if you can. There are only two or<br/>
three poets alive at any one time. A great<br/>
poet makes and marks an age; and poor<br/>
poets, or those who think they are poets<br/>
and are not, are plenty as blackberries.<br/>
Every hamlet has its poetaster. O! how<br/>
much valuable white paper is spoiled by<br/>
those who think they can write poetry.<br/>
You may make correct verse with faultless<br/>
rhymes, and there is not a gleam of poetry<br/>
in it. Poetry requires a peculiar faculty,<br/>
the imagination; and you may have genius,<br/>
sense, and learning, and the power of ex-<br/>
pression so to write prose to rival Burke or<br/>
Johnson, and after all may make yourself<br/>
ridiculous by trying your hand at poetry.<br/>
Write prose."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"Mr. Rassy, 482 New Oxford street, in-<br/>
ventor of buttons for trowsers that never<br/>
come off"-—are the words of an advertise-<br/>
ment in a London paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_10 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r02">PRICE CURRENT.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rice</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White Tic. 89 @ 91 Namsuang,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 54, Nasaun Tic. 68 @ Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1 Tic. 14<span class="s1">⅚</span> pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>" 14 pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>" 13¼ pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Brown Tic. 6½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 10 picul. scarce</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 2¾</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Scarce Tic. 10½ Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 210 @ 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Hides-Tic. 10¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Horns Black Tic. 10¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 13½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Prime Tic. 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">middling Tic. 160 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gamboge</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 49 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 79½ @ Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sticklao</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 13; No. 2 Tic. 10½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Ivory</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 330 @ 235 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cardimums</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 160 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 21<span class="s1">⅞</span> picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic 83 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Laos, Tic 265,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Cochin China Tic. 710 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gold leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Ansing Tic. 16¾ Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 4 cent premium.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—is now<br/>
ready to receive Vessels of any burthen<br/>
and the attention of Ship Owners,<br/>
Agents and Masters is respectfully<br/>
solicited to the advantages for Repair-<br/>
ing and Sparring Vessels which no<br/>
other Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of the<br/>
Premises is submitted for the informa-<br/>
tion of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of wa-<br/>
ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Length. 300 feet. (to be extended)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breadth. 100 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Depth of Water 15 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Caisson,<br/>
has a splendid entrance of 120 feet<br/>
from the River with a spacious Jetty on<br/>
each side, where Vessels of any size<br/>
may lay at any state of the Tides, to<br/>
lift Masts, Boilers etc.—with Powerful<br/>
Lifting Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring Dis-<br/>
patch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the differ-<br/>
ent departments of Ship-wrights, Mast<br/>
and Black Makers, Blacksmiths,<br/>
Engineers, Foundry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended by<br/>
Europeans who have had many years<br/>
experience in the different branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best picked<br/>
men from Hongkong and Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular at-<br/>
tention to the Great advantages this<br/>
Dock offers, being in a Port where<br/>
the best Teak and other Timber can<br/>
be had at the cheapest cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in con-<br/>
nection with the Dock to insure dis-<br/>
patch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in height<br/>
and can be taken out or shifted with-<br/>
out cutting or causing any expense to<br/>
ships having to get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared to<br/>
give estimates or enter into Contracts<br/>
for the repairing of Wooden or Iron<br/>
Ships; or the Building of New Ships,<br/>
Steam Boats, etc. or any kind of work<br/>
connected with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may lay<br/>
at the Company's Buoy's or Wharf free<br/>
of charge until ordered to remove by<br/>
the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leaving<br/>
the Dock must approve and sign<br/>
there-—Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting the<br/>
docking to be addressed until further<br/>
notice to the undersigned by whom all<br/>
Bills will be signed and collected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN BUSH
Managing Director.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having had for<br/>
many years experiences in Europe as<br/>
Mill-wright, and Engineer as well as<br/>
Surveyor, and Valuer of Machinery,<br/>
Contractor for the Erection and repair-<br/>
ing of<br/>
  Marine and Stationary Engines.<br/>
  Boilers of every description.<br/>
  Sugar Mills and Gearing.<br/>
  Hydro Extractors for drying sugar.<br/>
  Rice Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Saw Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Oil Mills & Presses.<br/>
  Hydraulic Presses.<br/>
  Rolling Mills for Silver, Copper
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and Lead.<br/>
  Iron Bridges.<br/>
  Swing Cranes for Wharfs.<br/>
  Water Wheels.<br/>
  Mill Gearing.<br/>
  Fitting wood Cogs in Wheel.<br/>
  Patterns for Bernal and Spar wheels.<br/>
  Contrifugal and other Pumps for<br/>
  Land Irrigation. &c. &c. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
begs to notify all Steam Ship, Rice,<br/>
and Sugar Mill Owners and the Public<br/>
in General. that he is now ready to<br/>
Execute all orders in connection with<br/>
the above, and can be consulted at any<br/>
time between the Hours of 10 A. M.<br/>
and 4 P. M. at the Bangkok Dock<br/>
Company's New Dock, at Koh Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHARLES HOWARTH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Holding Certificates as passed<br/>
Engineer and Mill-wright from the<br/>
British Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the public-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ESTATE OF ROBERT HUNTER, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been appointed ad-<br/>
ministrator of the Estate of the late Robert<br/>
Hunter, who died at Bangkok on 19th April last,<br/>
requests that all parties indebted to the said<br/>
Estate will make immediate payment, and that<br/>
all who have claims thereon, will send in the<br/>
same without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
R. S. SCOTT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok,<br/>
31st October 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would here-<br/>
by inform the public that he<br/>
has a free daily post boat con-<br/>
nected with the printing office<br/>
of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles above<br/>
the centre of foreign business,<br/>
is virtually brought to the<br/>
doors of all the Consulates<br/>
and foreign merchants, at least<br/>
once a day, (Sunday's except-<br/>
ed) and twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port. The<br/>
regular daily boat is dispatch-<br/>
ed from the office about 9 A. M.<br/>
and the occasional boat at 1<br/>
P. M. The post boy will call<br/>
at each of the Consulates, and<br/>
at the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for letters,<br/>
or other business for the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers, can<br/>
be left in charge of W. H.<br/>
Hamilton Esqr. at Messer Vir-<br/>
gin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r70">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r71">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Enterprise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Somfeld</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">488</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Kim Ti Ting</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Lagore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">383</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Precanmatia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Jarvis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">368</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Faithful</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Phillips</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">379</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Illus. Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hemes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Frederick Hendrik</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Glasser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">522</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dutch do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Tay Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ownehand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do <span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Yun Chai Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Richton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Bark.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Tait</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do <span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Drews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Esmeralda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Drown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hamb. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Macao</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Heidecomps</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Eynders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">733</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Holl. <span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rbf">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">298</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Europe</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bintang G. Timore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">110</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cilie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">British Schoooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Etienne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hamb. <span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shivers</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Emeralda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Drews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Macao</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Faithful</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">British<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">279</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Phillips</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Frederick Hendrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Dutch<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">522</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Glazner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Heidescomps</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hollands<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">733</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rynders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ownehand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Chin Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Praw</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">98</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Javanese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kussovie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Grey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lander</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Mathilda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">228</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Storm</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Omar Pasha</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Black</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah Ly</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hartlepool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Tait</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Captain Bush</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rc0">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rbf">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruiser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Enterprise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">488</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Somfrith</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">....</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barkintine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">....</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Phya Burut</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">251</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soy Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cherribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">183</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">189</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dolphin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Marys</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Yun Chai Hong.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Richten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
