---
linkTitle: 'October 14th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - October 14th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); October 14th'
date: 2025-09-24T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 19
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY OCTOBER 14th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 19.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
October 14th 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There could scarcely be a more heartless<br/>
and discouraging mission than that of an<br/>
Editor in Siam. Not more so was that<br/>
of the prophet Isaiah, when he was sent to<br/>
preach to those who he was told would not<br/>
believe. An editor has the privilege to<br/>
exercise his functions, and give vent to his<br/>
opinions and suggestions, but he is assured<br/>
that his articles will neither be read, nor<br/>
obeyed. In a translation, which appeared<br/>
in our last issue, is a piece of advice to<br/>
editors and others, which informs them<br/>
very clearly what they have to expect. At<br/>
this however we are not at all disappointed.<br/>
Ingratitude is inherent in the human heart,<br/>
and those who have been the best servants,<br/>
and even the best advisers have oftentimes<br/>
been most ungratefully treated. We how-<br/>
ever, we suppose, must on the other hand<br/>
be truly grateful for the privileges of ex-<br/>
ercising our editorial functions unmolested.<br/>
We may murmur but our murmurings will<br/>
most certainly not be heeded. Some of<br/>
those who are really interested in the trade<br/>
and property of the country, in order to<br/>
bring the matter before the public, and the<br/>
government, proposed through the News-<br/>
papers to import a new copper coin which<br/>
would take the place of the miserable lead<br/>
affairs now in use. That proposal brought<br/>
out the article in question. The public<br/>
are informed that some new coins are com-<br/>
ing out speedily, and that no further advice<br/>
or proposals upon the subject are necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the translation in question we learn<br/>
one or two other little things. We learn<br/>
that nations, as well as individuals, although<br/>
they may be ignorant and superstitious,<br/>
may get such an opinion of themselves as<br/>
to feel that they know almost every thing<br/>
that is worth knowing, and have no need<br/>
of any further advice. We learn also the<br/>
kind of articles which are most appreciated<br/>
here. All those things which would be a<br/>
permanent blessing and benefit to the coun-<br/>
try, and which would tend to elevate it to<br/>
a position of intelligence, and enterprise, in<br/>
common with the great nations of the earth,<br/>
we not wanted.  But all things calculated<br/>
to amuse and tickle the fancy of a nation<br/>
of children, and which would rather hind-<br/>
er than otherwise their progress in the way<br/>
of true civilisation, are wanted, and will be<br/>
appreciated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Louvre
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the English Reader
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the side of the Seine, the celebrated<br/>
gallery of the Louvre connects that Palace<br/>
with the Tuileries. I was here that, before<br/>
the overthrow of Napolean the choicest<br/>
treasures of art which the world had pro-<br/>
duced were assembled together—A collec-<br/>
tion of the spoils of all countries which<br/>
could only have been accomplished by the<br/>
injustice of a mighty conqueror. Those<br/>
spoils have been restored to their rightful<br/>
owners; in some cases only to excite a fruit-<br/>
less admiration, but with the certainty that<br/>
had they remained in France, they would<br/>
have nurtured the most hateful feelings of<br/>
national vanity, and have stimulated the<br/>
taste of the people at the expense of their<br/>
public integrity. The statues and pictures<br/>
which now remain in the Louvre, have been<br/>
honestly acquired. Many of them are valu-<br/>
able and some of the highest order of ex-<br/>
cellence. And though the Apollo and the<br/>
Transfiguration no longer attract pilgrims<br/>
from every quarter of the globe where art<br/>
is venerated, the treasures which remain,<br/>
are abundant and choice enough, to serve for<br/>
example and instruction. One of the most<br/>
remarkable pictures now preserved in the<br/>
gallery of the Louvre is supposed to be the<br/>
last work of the celebrated Goya, painted<br/>
near the close of his life at Bordeaux and<br/>
is entitled "Un Chien en arrêt devant un<br/>
serpent." The artist dying bestowed it on an<br/>
old and faithful attendant with the words<br/>
"Vous en ferez un devant de cheminée."<br/>
The "devant de cheminée" soon after<br/>
passed into the hands of a broker of the<br/>
Cours d'albert, and was not long after [....]<br/>
chased at the Fair de saint Forte to<br/>
magnificently installed in the gallery of the<br/>
Louvre. An incident in the personal ex-<br/>
perience of Goya is of so deep an histor-<br/>
ical interest, being connected with the dark<br/>
period of the Inquisition, that we cannot re-<br/>
sist giving it to our readers in commencing<br/>
our present sketch of the Louvre with its<br/>
historical scenes and associations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was in the early part of the year 1816<br/>
on the return of the Royal family to Mad-<br/>
rid that Goya attained the position of first<br/>
painter to Ferdinand the VI of Spain. This<br/>
intellectual and noble artist was not only<br/>
a favorite with the king, but was universal-<br/>
ly admired and esteemed, as he had already<br/>
combated the enemies of the throne<br/>
and of independence by the aid of his<br/>
palette and brush. In fact in most of his<br/>
paintings, sketches, and caricatures, Goya<br/>
vividly portrayed a hatred; the most vigo-<br/>
rous, energetic, and deep rooted, against the<br/>
depraving influence of the barbarous in-<br/>
stitutions of his country, giving at times<br/>
terrific illustrations of what human nature<br/>
is capable of becoming under the spur of<br/>
bigotry and religious hatred. On finding<br/>
that the clergy of his country, in the fana-<br/>
ticism of their religious zeal, had demanded<br/>
of a monarch of the nineteenth century, the<br/>
reestablishment of the Inquisition, Goya<br/>
with a few touches of his pencil endeavored,<br/>
if possible to extinguish the courage of this<br/>
so called, religious philosophy. He pre-<br/>
sented a tableau or picture to his Patron<br/>
and Sovereign, Ferdinand VII entitled<br/>
“Crime de lese Majesty, divine et humane,”<br/>
representing Ferdinand himself, seated in<br/>
royal magnificence on his throne, lending a<br/>
willing ear to some counsellors, who were<br/>
no others than Philippe II. and the most<br/>
celebrated 'of the Inquisitors of the ancient<br/>
church of Spain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Philippe was seen standing a little lower<br/>
and behind the throne of the son of Charles<br/>
IV. with his head slightly inclining towards<br/>
the shoulder of Ferdinand, and his eye<br/>
fixed on a crucifix which one of the chief<br/>
of the Sacred Office bore triumphantly be-<br/>
fore them. At the foot of the throne were<br/>
placed the most heroic of the martyrs<br/>
of the Inquisition, from every siècle<br/>
of its history, snatched from oblivion<br/>
by a few vigorous touches, who appeared<br/>
to be disputing with the conscience of the<br/>
new Sovereign. On the last step of the<br/>
throne was placed a monk of the order of<br/>
Saint Dominque who played the part of<br/>
recorder in that solemn and terrible au-<br/>
dience; writing down the names of the<br/>
gulty on a long roll of parchment, with a<br/>
pen the point of which terminated in a<br/>
poignard. And to leave no part undone<br/>
in this keen satire, Goya would have the<br/>
recording monk dip his pen, or rather the<br/>
point of the poignard, in the blood of one<br/>
of the most illustrious female victims of the<br/>
last century. The desk of the recorder<br/>
was a human skeleton.  The figures so a-<br/>
bly reproduced by the painter appeared to<br/>
be agitated by the various passions expres-<br/>
sed on each face, and some bore so life-like<br/>
a resemblance to many who were still fresh<br/>
in the memory of the living, that one might<br/>
almost imagine that a Philippe, a Valdes,<br/>
and a Torquemada lived, felt, thought, spoke,<br/>
and acted, once more the hideous drama of<br/>
that religious period.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One evening not long after the comple-<br/>
tion of the "Crime de lese Majesté, divine<br/>
et humaine," as Goya was engaged in his<br/>
studio, he heard a knocking, and on open-<br/>
ing his door, was greeted by one of the<br/>
Judges of the Sacred Office who had come<br/>
to execte on the person of the celebrated<br/>
and courageous artist the decree of the<br/>
Grand Inquisition of Ferdinand VII.  After<br/>
having taken a minute inventory of all that<br/>
belonged to Goya, he attached the fatal seal<br/>
to his dwelling, and conducted his prisoner<br/>
to the new palace of the Sacred Office. Go-<br/>
ya calmly awaited his fate. He soon found<br/>
himself in a dark chamber, containing a low<br/>
bed and a stool, which were dimly visible<br/>
through the surrounding gloom. The re-<br/>
treating sounds of foot steps and the gra-<br/>
ting of the key as it turned upon him told<br/>
him all the rest. He threw himself upon the<br/>
conch and fell into a deep sleep. On awaking<br/>
next morning he found a Familiar seated<br/>
beside him, who said to him with a smile,<br/>
will you please to reproduce on your can-<br/>
vas, in order to follow up your first picture,<br/>
such scenes as you will now be made fam-<br/>
iliar with. Observe carefully, listen atten-<br/>
tively, and inspire yourself. Where am I?<br/>
demanded the artist. In one of the dungeons<br/>
of the Sacred Office replied the Familiar:<br/>
in a dungeon which has the just proportions<br/>
of a sepulchre and no more. The dead do<br/>
not require much room. Am I then con-<br/>
demned to die? When one falls into such<br/>
an abyss, it is not to live. May I have the<br/>
liberty of writing and reading while await-<br/>
ing my execution? No. May I not complain,<br/>
nor weep, nor groan, nor sigh, nor sing? he<br/>
inquired. Yes weep, groan, bewail yourself<br/>
or sing at your pleasure. But I warn you,<br/>
behold! a gag and a lash. Oh! now I see<br/>
but too clearly that I am in the power of<br/>
the Inquisition, said the unhappy artist. To<br/>
which the Familiar replied by a cruel<br/>
smile. But formerly did not the justice<br/>
of the Sacred office send to the accused,<br/>
assassins who bore at least some resem-<br/>
blance to judges? Be tranquil you shall<br/>
be judged, replied the Familiar. Shall I be<br/>
permitted to defend myself? The best de-<br/>
fence for one so guilty is the confession of<br/>
his crime. But what if my conscience re-<br/>
proaches me of no crime? It must be be-<br/>
cause your conscience has become mute<br/>
and we will perhaps find it a tongue in<br/>
the chamber of torture. The chamber of<br/>
torture! Yes the chamber of torture. Rise<br/>
and follow me. The Familiar leading the<br/>
way, Goya rose and following him across,<br/>
around and through dark passages and in-<br/>
extricable labyrinths of gloom, they entered<br/>
a vast subterranean chamber dimly lighted<br/>
by two sepulchral looking lanterns, where<br/>
the eyes of the artist fell upon the most fright-<br/>
ful instruments of torture, horrible panoply's<br/>
which had for centuries furnished religious<br/>
arms to the executive justice of the Inquisi-<br/>
tion. At the same instant three or four<br/>
Executioners clothed in a sort of sackcloth of<br/>
deep black serge, with their heads covered<br/>
with a capuchin or hood of the same stuff, en-<br/>
tered the chamber, and one of them approach-<br/>
ing, placed his large heavy hand on the<br/>
shoulder of Goya, and made as though he<br/>
would force him into a sitting posture, over<br/>
a frame work called a chevelet. But at a<br/>
nod from the Familier he desisted and with<br/>
an air of deep disappointment kept closely<br/>
regarding his prey lest he should escape.<br/>
The Familier proceeded to explain to the<br/>
unfortunate artist, that the Inquisition had<br/>
provided three infallible means for finding<br/>
a voice to mute consciences, viz: the cord,<br/>
the water, and the fire. Attempt therefore<br/>
to be silent when the Inquisition interro-<br/>
gates, and you shall immediately be at-<br/>
tached to that cord, which will then be pas-<br/>
sed over yonder pulley, and at a given signal<br/>
the Executioner will suspend you so high,<br/>
and so well, that there will hardly remain<br/>
to you time, or breath, or strength, to cry<br/>
mercy, ere you are thrown back all wounded,<br/>
bruised, torn, and bleeding on the damp<br/>
pavement below.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then the Physicians of the tribunal will<br/>
restore you to life for a day, an hour, and<br/>
a minute, and should it please you still to be<br/>
silent, another torture will perhaps bring<br/>
you to reason. Extended on this chevalet of<br/>
wood, and garrotted between these sharp<br/>
pointed spikes, you will submit, to a punish-<br/>
ment which the damned themselves have<br/>
hardly to endure in the infernal regions to<br/>
which they are condemned. The Execution-<br/>
er at distant and carefully measur'd inter-<br/>
vals, will slowly drop only one drop of wat-<br/>
er to moisten your burning lips. Suffocated,<br/>
you will think yourself dying at each in-<br/>
stant. But not so, you will still resist the<br/>
pain, the fatigue, and misery of this torture,<br/>
and will be resuscitated time after time to<br/>
again endure new and more exquisite suf-<br/>
fering.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Physicians of the tribunal will deign<br/>
again to tender to you the strength which<br/>
one so guilty and culpable deserves for<br/>
further and more refined suffering. And<br/>
should you still persist in stifling the cries<br/>
of your conscience a third torture will as-<br/>
suredly put an end to your incorrigible im-<br/>
piety. The Executioner will fasten together<br/>
your hands and feet with strong cords and<br/>
rub them briskly with "des matieres" a<br/>
rough and sharp instrument until they<br/>
have laid bare and bleeding every nerve in<br/>
them. You will then be placed before a<br/>
fire which demons lend to the Executioners<br/>
of the sacred office. The heat will scorch<br/>
your flesh, shrivel, convulse and harass<br/>
your nerves, and you will almost hear the<br/>
cracking of your own bones under the ex-<br/>
cruciating process, and it will be seen how<br/>
long you will hold out. In your obstinacy<br/>
the Inquisition holds you but a pagan on<br/>
the "gril" of the renowned Saint Laurent.<br/>
After your resuscitation, there will remain<br/>
to you one alternative that of passing<br/>
through the flames to the honor of an Au-<br/>
to-da-fe .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What, cried the unhappy artist , will not<br/>
the cord, the water, and the fire yet have<br/>
made an end of me! No.—The Inquisition<br/>
destroys not its enemies. What then? It<br/>
simply aids, helps them to die. The Inqui-<br/>
sition has a horror of blood, it only seeks to<br/>
curb, restrain, mortify, and punish the flesh,<br/>
—'tis the justice of the king that ends life.<br/>
And Spain! cried Goya, with a voice of<br/>
profound horror and indignation, Spain<br/>
finds amusement, pleasure, and gayety at<br/>
these spectacles of her child the Inquisitions<br/>
pious vengeance, and Ferdinand permits;<br/>
not only permits but lends to the frightful<br/>
cruelties of Philippe the programme of an<br/>
Au to-da-fe! It is certainly so. And the law?<br/>
The king wishes, and so wills the law. And<br/>
justice, liberty, where are they? In heaven<br/>
no doubt. And Equality! In the cemetery.<br/>
Entomb me then and the Lord be your<br/>
judge. In believing that you will be judged<br/>
by your Sovereign, you must not imagine<br/>
an earthly one, for in the name of your<br/>
Heavenly sovereign, to whom you have just<br/>
appealed, the Inquisition will judge, con-<br/>
demn, torture, and burn you, once in this<br/>
dungeon you have but one grace to expect,<br/>
one favor to hope. Humble yourself before<br/>
God and declare that you die a christian,<br/>
and believe in the justice of the Inquisition;<br/>
and the Executioner will not burn you till<br/>
you have been first strangled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scarcely had the Familiar ended these<br/>
details, when the folding doors at the fur-<br/>
thest end of the chamber, noiselessly unfold-<br/>
ed being drawn back by pulleys, and Goya<br/>
saw entering a procession of Dominican<br/>
Monks, headed by a Grand member of the<br/>
Sacred Office, holding a richly ornamented<br/>
golden crucifix which he planted before the<br/>
"Buechee" or scaffolding, and took his<br/>
place opposite the alter. Then followed the<br/>
arrival of the king and his court, and lastly<br/>
the Grand Inquisitors masked, and their<br/>
escort. Goya horror struck saw the con-<br/>
demned being dragged forth from their<br/>
massive wooden cages, he heard the crack-<br/>
ling of the burning fires as they sent out<br/>
flames, like keen, fierce, angry, livid tongues.<br/>
and amidst the suffocating cries of the vic-<br/>
tims and the loud chants of the monks he<br/>
dropped insensible on the floor. The Fami-<br/>
iliar bore him away, and as consciousness<br/>
slowly returned he opened his eyes with<br/>
cries of "Dieu merci, un peu d'air, un peu<br/>
de lumiere, un peu de soliel." The Familiar<br/>
of the Sacred Office now said to the painter,<br/>
this hall, (pointing to a lofty and spacious<br/>
apartment), serves as the tribunal of the<br/>
Inquisition, and wants nothing except a<br/>
material souvenir of the great deeds and<br/>
the great men, who have honored the Sacred<br/>
Office and gives to this chamber its illust-<br/>
rious pretorial characteristics. You, who<br/>
have already dared to revivify on your can-<br/>
vas one of the most illustrations of the jus-<br/>
tifiers of God and the Inquisition, Thomas<br/>
Torquemada, retake your palette and<br/>
brush, inspire yourself with this great work,<br/>
illustrate, glorify, immortalize for ever the<br/>
history of the Inquisition of Spain. Recall<br/>
into life again all the glorious phantoms<br/>
hidden within the precincts of the Sacred<br/>
Office. The Inquisition condemns you to<br/>
resuscitate within this hall, by the enchant-<br/>
ment of genius, all the Grand Inquisitors<br/>
of Spain, from Torquemada and Cisneros to<br/>
jose de Harce and Lorenzana. Pointing<br/>
the way to liberty, he concluded with these<br/>
emphatic words, the Inquisition will pardon<br/>
you only at the price of several chef d<br/>
oeuvres—The Inquisition will forget your<br/>
crimes only when you have wasted your<br/>
genius in immortalizing her order. But<br/>
let neither your brush nor your pencil, at<br/>
any period of time, trifle, or point, or speak<br/>
of Torquemada, or of Philippe, or Valdes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Goya on accepting these terms became<br/>
free, a delay of three months having been<br/>
granted him, by the Grand Inquisitor to<br/>
design the Cartoons for a historical gallery—<br/>
He betook himself bravely to the task—<br/>
from morn till night,—through the night<br/>
till its silent stags paled into day, un-<br/>
wearingly he labored on. But in accepting<br/>
the conditions he did not lose sight of the<br/>
hatred with which the order had inspired<br/>
him. Intently rapt in his novel study, he<br/>
produced almost unconsciously an immense<br/>
gallery of historical figures the most hid-<br/>
eons and scenes the most deplorable of the<br/>
Inquisition. Animated by his fierce hatred<br/>
he represented each reign in the Royalty<br/>
of Spain and of the Inquisition, through<br/>
the horrors and crimes of the one and the<br/>
other, as symbolical of the epoch it portray-<br/>
ed, until he approached the reign of<br/>
Philip II. This reign was represented<br/>
by suspending a balance from one of the<br/>
side posts of a scaffold—-in one scale was<br/>
seen a female figure representing liberty—-<br/>
and in the other was the sword of State—-<br/>
At the foot of the scaffold Philip II. was<br/>
represented in the act of throwing a cruci-<br/>
fix into the scale with the sword to equalize<br/>
the balance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Goya eager to finish this historical sketch<br/>
and give a synoptical view of the whole,<br/>
imagined a deluge, not of water, but of fire,<br/>
representing oceans of flames, and over the<br/>
loftiest waves of this sea of fire he placed<br/>
an immense arch surrounding Royality<br/>
and Religion, and around this arch writhing<br/>
in the agonies of torment were seen Jews,<br/>
Turks and Heritics, divines, savants, and<br/>
philosophers, sorcerers, schismatics and<br/>
excommunicants, the great and the small,<br/>
the aged and the young, the splendid, the<br/>
fair, and the beautiful, the monks, the priest,<br/>
the bishops, and popes, the people and the<br/>
nobles, mendicants and kings.—All those<br/>
who by birth, family, or education, by their<br/>
loves, affections, fortune, spirit, or character,<br/>
by their knowledge, or through their fears,<br/>
had dared to give the faintest expression<br/>
of their doubts and dread of the Inquisition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Goya feared not to send this vast Cartoon<br/>
to the Grand Inquisitor, General de Cas-<br/>
tille. But he lingered not for the thanks<br/>
or acknowledgments of the Sacred Office.<br/>
Having previously made all his preparations<br/>
for flight, that very night, he secretly<br/>
quitted Madrid and fled to France, where<br/>
he was cordially received and cherished by<br/>
L. Lorente, the learned author of His-<br/>
toria critique de l'enquisition Espagnolle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Towards the close of his life he remem-<br/>
bered once more the Inquisitors of Madrid<br/>
which inspired his last work, before men-<br/>
tioned, entitled "Le chien en arrêt devant<br/>
un serpent". In the secret thoughts of the<br/>
aged artist the dog represented Spain,<br/>
and the serpent the Inquisition.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburi
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor—-Has the practical and all<br/>
absorbing question of the rice crop been<br/>
decided yet! In this province, after hang-<br/>
ing in suspense as if equally balanced for a<br/>
time, the preponderance of evidence is now<br/>
in favor of a fair crop. Two or three weeks<br/>
since it was the all absorbing topic, swal-<br/>
lowing up for a time even the lottery ma-<br/>
nia. The usual rise in the river during the<br/>
ninth and tenth months, did not take place<br/>
till near the latter portion of the tenth, so<br/>
that much anxiety and even alarm began<br/>
to be felt. So much importance did the<br/>
question assume that our enterprising friend<br/>
the Lieut. Governor had set his wits, and<br/>
men to work in preparing an artifical process<br/>
of watering this vast plain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plan adopted was to throw a dam<br/>
across the river just below the mouth of<br/>
the two principal canals, which go off on<br/>
each side and serve as the two grand arte-<br/>
ries by which water is carried to its ut-<br/>
most extremity. He first made provision<br/>
for defraying its expenses without touching<br/>
the royal treasury, or the pockets of the<br/>
people. This was done by imposing a tax<br/>
of one catty on the Lottery farmer, and a<br/>
smaller one on the Po farmer, and so on, tax-<br/>
ing only these things which are a nuisance<br/>
in the community. Whatever were the mo-<br/>
tives or the influence brought to bear on<br/>
them, they all consented to the arrange-<br/>
ment and the money was paid. Next came<br/>
the building of the dam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The special occasion that called it forth<br/>
demanded greater haste, probably, than<br/>
was consistent with a thorough preparation<br/>
for such an undertaking. But to the persever-<br/>
ing and enterprising undertaker, no obsta-<br/>
cles seemed insurmountable. He had suc-<br/>
ceeded in building a bridge across the same<br/>
river that would be an honor to its con-<br/>
structor in any place or country, notwith-<br/>
standing the Siamese officials predicted a<br/>
failure. That was a grand success, and he<br/>
was confident of his own power to accom-<br/>
plish this also. So the largest and strong-<br/>
est posts that could be obtained in the place<br/>
were procured. These were driven deep<br/>
down into the ground, about four feet apart,<br/>
while cross timbers were extended in three<br/>
parallel lines cross-wise, one at the top<br/>
against the middle, and another at the<br/>
bottom. This was to be the frame work<br/>
which was to support the body of the<br/>
water. Between these posts the filling up<br/>
was to be of bamboo. The river was all<br/>
life for a week. Besides those engaged in<br/>
it, the citizens of the place, and the rice<br/>
farmers, especially, congregated on the river<br/>
bank, to see the result of the experiment.<br/>
And so intensely did the Phra Palat be-<br/>
come interested in it himself, that he came<br/>
down by daylight and examined the whole<br/>
foundation in person, to see if the work<br/>
of the previous day was all firm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The frame was all finished and the filling<br/>
in commenced, when a sudden rise in the<br/>
river, before the buttresses were put up<br/>
below it, at once made a breach in the<br/>
wall and rendered it unnecessary. He was<br/>
almost regretting that the river had risen<br/>
that he might see the success of his plans.<br/>
But however successful they might have<br/>
been, I suppose there is no doubt that: na-<br/>
ture's water pot is after all the best. What<br/>
it could have done at best but partially,<br/>
has been done thoroughly. The fields are<br/>
watered, and they have shown their grati-<br/>
tude to the kind providence that has visited<br/>
the earth and watered it, that has "greatly<br/>
enriched it with the river of God which is<br/>
full of water," by putting on their finest dress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those of your readers who have taken a<br/>
view at this season of the year from the<br/>
summit of the Kings mountain, as it is com-<br/>
monly called, need not be told that it<br/>
is probably one of most lovely prospects that<br/>
the eye of man is permitted to behold.<br/>
Every thing conspires to make the prospect<br/>
one of surpassing loveliness. The parallel<br/>
ranges of mountains, as well as the single<br/>
peaks, which rise in the west and<br/>
seem to receive the setting sun, as he<br/>
passes from the kingdom of the white<br/>
Elephant, to Her Britannic Majesty's pos-<br/>
sessions and the nations of the west; and<br/>
the beautiful azure blue of the gulf to the<br/>
E. and S.E. and the two natural bounderies<br/>
which inclose this beautiful plain. Nor is<br/>
the filling up less touching than the grand<br/>
outlines. The city of Petchaburee with its<br/>
long row of market buildings, and beautiful<br/>
roads, and a few tall steeples from the tem-<br/>
ples around lies at your feet; the river winds<br/>
along in a wandering course through the<br/>
city and plain till it empties into the gulf.<br/>
Beyond the river towards the bay seems to<br/>
be one vast palm forest, the pride and<br/>
ornament of eastern plains, though they<br/>
really conceal one of the largest and finest<br/>
sections of the rice fields, lying on each<br/>
side of the large canal going towards Ban<br/>
Keeo and Ban Taloo. To the left of K'ow<br/>
kadai it is a broad expanse of rice fields,<br/>
whose monotony is sufficiently broken by the<br/>
regular and irregular little enbancements sur-<br/>
rounding them and the various shades of<br/>
green to make a pleasing variety to the eye.<br/>
While towards K'ow Hluang is another broad<br/>
extent embracing His Majesty's own fields<br/>
ornamented with beautiful clusters of palm<br/>
in every conceivable variety of combination,<br/>
affording a pleasing relief if the eye ever<br/>
tires at beholding such a beautiful green.<br/>
To the west again the fields that begin near<br/>
the mountains are soon lost amid what ap-<br/>
pears to be another palm forest extending<br/>
to the western mountains. Taken together<br/>
the whole affords one of those scenes which<br/>
seen once will never be forgotten, and loses<br/>
but little of its power to please when gazed<br/>
on for one hundred times. Nor is it a scene<br/>
of mere beauty. The plain is one of the<br/>
large granaries that supply this kingdom<br/>
with the staff of life, the failure of which<br/>
last year has prestrated all the branches of<br/>
trade in your large metropolis, and most<br/>
of the palm sugar consumed in the country<br/>
comes from the same fields.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But with all its natural advantages the<br/>
place has some serious drawbacks to its<br/>
prosperity and growth.  The greatest is<br/>
probably the shallowness of the river which<br/>
makes the city difficult of access even by<br/>
small boats during a considerable part of<br/>
the year.  The building of the temporary<br/>
dam referred to above, suggests a question<br/>
worthy of consideration which had already<br/>
occupied the attention of the intelligent and<br/>
public spirited Phra Palat.  That is, whether<br/>
or not it is possible by means of a few per-<br/>
manant dams and locks, such as the western<br/>
nations use in their canals, to counteract<br/>
this great obstacle to the prosperity of the<br/>
place.  He thinks that it is possible and has<br/>
mentioned it to the authorities, but they<br/>
are slow to adopt any thing which is new<br/>
for fear of a failure.  An experienced and<br/>
scientific engineer could soon decide whether<br/>
it were practicable.  If it could be done it<br/>
would be a great improvement to the place,<br/>
while the permanant dams would, even in<br/>
the case of the lowest water ever known,<br/>
afford the means of watering the rice fields,<br/>
and thus secure a crop except for excess of<br/>
water as was the case last year. Even the<br/>
suggestion of such improve ments is some-<br/>
thing neither very gracefully nor gratefully<br/>
received by the Siamese, but as nothing is<br/>
charged for this it is offered as cheap as it<br/>
will probably be lightly esteemed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But to return to the rice. The river rose<br/>
almost to its highest mark sufficiently long<br/>
to water the above plain, and then subsid-<br/>
ed. It is now (Oct. 5th) rising again. If<br/>
it continues for a few days more the crops<br/>
will be very great, though not so heavy as<br/>
they would have been had there been more<br/>
water during the ninth and tenth months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Minister and<br/>
Chaw Phya Montree and suit, left yesterday,<br/>
having had, I suppose, a very pleasant lit-<br/>
tle visit in this place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours, D.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Brothers Leinhardt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 169)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He wondered at himself, for he had done<br/>
no new thing; hard and selfish actions con-<br/>
stituted his life, but never before had their<br/>
memory given him one moment’s uneasiness.<br/>
He piled the great logs upon the fire, refil-<br/>
led his pipe, and strove to banish such<br/>
thoughts, but his efforts were vain; that<br/>
heart-broken woman haunted him, and her<br/>
last words passed and repassed monoton-<br/>
omously through his brain, till at length, being<br/>
unable to forget, Franz suffered his thoughts<br/>
to dwell upon them patiently. He soon be-<br/>
gan to calculate how much gold would so<br/>
weigh down a soul, and he wished, wicked<br/>
wretch that he was, that some demon<br/>
would give him a trial; not that he was<br/>
more willing to lose his soul than another,<br/>
but being very shrewd, he could think of<br/>
fifty ways to keep the gold, and cheat the<br/>
devil. In such thoughts as these, time slip-<br/>
ped away, the fire smouldered down to<br/>
glowing coals, and shadows crept across the<br/>
floor. Amid the deep silence the wheels<br/>
of the clock began to whir, and forth from<br/>
his retreat darted the little man in the red<br/>
nightcap, clanking his bags together twelve<br/>
times. This Franz expected, but his astonish-<br/>
ment was extreme when, instead of return-<br/>
ing modestly to his den in the old clock, as<br/>
he had done every hour for years; the gob-<br/>
lin, demon, or whatever he was, seated<br/>
himself on the mantle shelf, nodding and<br/>
winking at Franz as if there was some deep<br/>
secret between them. Franz rubbed his<br/>
bewildered eyes and stared with all his<br/>
might-—there sat the little mannikin, knock-<br/>
ing his tiny heels together, and eying him<br/>
with a look of malicious intelligence. "I<br/>
can do it for you, Leinhardt," said he at<br/>
length with a knowing wink;" look at<br/>
these, "shaking his little bags triumphantly,<br/>
"they are full of gold." Franz laughed a-<br/>
loud. Ten thousand of such Lilliputian bags<br/>
would not have been a drop in the great<br/>
ocean of his avarice. "Don't laugh, Franz<br/>
Leinhardt," said the goblin with an angry<br/>
frown, "I could shake gold enough from<br/>
those bags to bury you, if I wished; lie<br/>
down and place your strong box upon your<br/>
breast, and I will give you gold as long as<br/>
you can bear its weight; but have a care<br/>
you don't take more than you can lift, for<br/>
though I can give, I cannot take away."<br/>
Franz felt inclined to laugh, but did as he<br/>
was bid, stretching himself on the floor with<br/>
his strong box on his breast, and the little<br/>
goblin perching himself upon the side, be-<br/>
gan to pour a small but steady stream of<br/>
glittering gold from his two little bags. The<br/>
weight increased slowly; at first Franz<br/>
tried to move it frequently, but as the box<br/>
grew heavier his exertion knew no bounds,<br/>
and so loath was he to lose one grain of<br/>
the precious yellow dust, that it was not<br/>
till a sense of suffocation oppressed him,<br/>
and he found his strength barely sufficient<br/>
to move the box that he cried "stop!"<br/>
"Oh, you are not allowing for my weight,"<br/>
said the goblin briskly, and Franz easily<br/>
persuaded, permitted him to pour in a lit-<br/>
tle more. The gold seemed to flow much<br/>
faster than before, and again he cried<br/>
"stop! stop!" for the weight was crushing<br/>
him. With a shrill laugh, the goblin disap-<br/>
peared, yet the box was not a whit lighter<br/>
for his absence, and Franz strove in agony<br/>
to move it, but in vain. Poor Franz, he<br/>
had now what he hoped and longed and<br/>
toiled for-—gold, heavy yellow gold, more<br/>
than he could, though he struggled ever<br/>
so hard: yet it was with loving clasp<br/>
that he wrestled his arms around it, his<br/>
heart loathed its former idol as he groaned<br/>
and writhed beneath the weight which pin-<br/>
ned him to the perishing earth: and every<br/>
grain of shining dust would he have given<br/>
for the memory of one act of loving charity<br/>
that might win from the cloud-shrouded<br/>
Prince of the poor and needy the welcome<br/>
sentence-—"Inasmuch as ye have done it<br/>
unto one of these my brethren, ye have done<br/>
it unto me." Days, months and years rol-<br/>
led on till ages had passed in this unutter-able<br/>
agony, when he perceived a strange<br/>
commotion all around him, and knew in-<br/>
tuitively that the end of all things earthly<br/>
was at hand. Suddenly a bright light shone<br/>
around, and a crowd of people entered the<br/>
room and gathered sadly about him. Look-<br/>
ing from face to face, he recognized friends,<br/>
acquaintances and servants, and foremost<br/>
among them his brother, with his wife and<br/>
children. Then was heard a voice saying—-<br/>
"This soul has been suffering for ages and<br/>
he has learned to hate the gold he worship-<br/>
ped, therefore any of you his kindred,<br/>
friends or servants, whom he has helped,<br/>
may aid him to remove the awful load that<br/>
binds him to the earth." A cry of hopeless<br/>
despair burst from Franz's lips as his eyes<br/>
wandered from face to face, and only the<br/>
memory of harsh words and selfish actions<br/>
rose up before him. One person turning<br/>
to his brother Flemming, said, "You were<br/>
a poor-sickly creature, with many children<br/>
often in need of daily bread, surely he has<br/>
given you of his abundance and you can<br/>
help him!" but Flemming sadly shook his<br/>
head, and Christina, whose heart was always<br/>
pitiful, wept as she turned away, her face<br/>
reminding Franz of that stormy winter<br/>
night, long, long ago when he had driven<br/>
her from his door cold, hungry and sore.<br/>
One by one they passed away with sad, re-<br/>
gretful looks; and a solemn voice like a<br/>
distant echo was heard.—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The gold that so hardened his<br/>
heart has bound him to the earth, he<br/>
can never mount to glory."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At his friends departed, the light faded<br/>
away, and he was left to his doom alone<br/>
and in darkness; he suffered an eternity of<br/>
anguish. With all the wild energy of des-<br/>
pair he struggled, shrieking for mercy, when<br/>
suddenly the earth gave way beneath him;<br/>
and, oh horrors! he felt himself falling—fail-<br/>
ling—until his head come down with a<br/>
dreadful thump on the broad stone hearth,<br/>
and opening his eyes, he found himself ly-<br/>
ing among the dead embers. He sat up<br/>
and rubbed his eyes; daylight was glim-<br/>
mering through the window; but every<br/>
trace of box, or gold, or goblin had disap-<br/>
peared. He looked fearfully and shuddered,<br/>
as the little man in the red nightcap pop-<br/>
ped out and nodding his head knowingly,<br/>
clanked his tiny bags together. Back he<br/>
darted again as usual, and his master sat<br/>
down in deep thought. The servants were<br/>
just up and stirring when Franz appeared<br/>
among them, not a hard taskmaster to<br/>
urge on their labors, but to issue such or-<br/>
ders, that they declared to each other there<br/>
was no saying what would happen next.<br/>
Such a bustle arose in the little brown<br/>
house as he had not seen for many a long,<br/>
long day, and before an hour had passed,<br/>
old Franz was driving his wagon towards<br/>
his brother's house laden with good things<br/>
for the sick and hungry.  It was his first<br/>
errand of mercy, and very queer and be-<br/>
wildered he felt driving along through the<br/>
sharp mooring air not to increase his wealth,<br/>
but to give a part to the poor and needy;<br/>
and many old-fashioned texts grew bright<br/>
and fresh in his memory which he had well<br/>
nigh forgotten, such as—"He that hath<br/>
pity upon the poor, lendeth unto the Lord;<br/>
and that which he hath given will he pay<br/>
him again."  "Blessed be the man that<br/>
provideth for the sick and needy, the Lord<br/>
shall deliver him in time of trouble."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When poor Christina was so rudely re-<br/>
pulsed from her brother-in-law's door, she<br/>
took herself with swift foot and heavy<br/>
heart to her weary homeward road.  The<br/>
night was dark, the way long and rough.<br/>
and the wind wild and piercing. Hope,<br/>
that can lighten the heaviest load, was dead;<br/>
and love, man's choicest blessing, seemed<br/>
a bitter curse since the sufferings of each<br/>
loved one wrung her heart with anguish.<br/>
When she reached her home, Flemming<br/>
raised his languid head and gazed at her<br/>
with questioning eyes; and the little child-<br/>
ren seized her gown, and crowded round<br/>
with their clamorous "What did Uncle<br/>
Franz give you, mother?" "Nothing, noth-<br/>
ing, my children.  Ah me! yes, a few hard<br/>
words." Flemming lay down and closed<br/>
his eyes, and the eager little questioners<br/>
went supperless to bed, and wept themselves<br/>
to sleep.  God help the mother who hears<br/>
her children cry in vain for bread!  But<br/>
where will they find help who hear such<br/>
cries without pity when Christ shall say:<br/>
"I was an hungered, and ye gave me no<br/>
meat; I was naked, and ye clothed me not."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the long night Christian sat by<br/>
her cold hearth, almost too despairing to<br/>
pray; but when the day broke, its cold,<br/>
bleak comfortless light making the desola-<br/>
tion of her home seem yet more drear—<br/>
wonder of all wonders! Franz's wagon drew<br/>
up at the door, and the little man, nervous<br/>
and fidgety as one will be in a novel posi-<br/>
tion, jumped out, shook hands with Flem-<br/>
ming and his wife, and hastened to deliver<br/>
his load of comfort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After yesterday's repulse, Christian could<br/>
not have been more astonished had a flock<br/>
of ravens appeared with bread and meat in<br/>
their beaks to minister to her necessities.<br/>
Franz would hear some of their thanks or<br/>
wonderment (which latter feeling greatly<br/>
predominated in their minds); but as he<br/>
lifted out jar after jar, packing after pack-<br/>
age, urging all around to quick despatch,<br/>
and the brightened faces of the poor<br/>
parents, and the eager enjoyments of the<br/>
half-finished children, a pure happiness<br/>
that he had never felt before thrilled his<br/>
heart, and he felt that even in this life mer-<br/>
cy has a rich reward. To Christian, it seemed-<br/>
that Heaven had wrought a miracle in<br/>
answer to her prayers for succor; and many<br/>
a trouble-trod son did she cheer with the<br/>
wondrous story. Though he pondered it<br/>
long and deeply, Franz never told the<br/>
strange dream that had roused his slum-<br/>
bering conscience; but from that night he<br/>
was a different man-—his hand was now<br/>
open to the suffering and needy; the way-<br/>
faring man no longer trudged wearily past<br/>
the little brown house; the children of the<br/>
poor joyfully gathered the droppings of his<br/>
harvests; and though frugal, he was no<br/>
longer miserly. His astonished neighbors<br/>
shook their heads, saying such sudden<br/>
changes boded death; but the event proved<br/>
them wrong: Franz lived to a good old age;<br/>
and what seemed at one time much less<br/>
likely, when he did die there were many<br/>
who sincerely regretted him; for he had<br/>
learned that "to know the art of alms," is<br/>
greater than to be crowned with the dia-<br/>
jem of kings."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Drinking Our Debt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the able argument of Mr. Jay Cooke<br/>
the purpose of which is to demonstrate,<br/>
that our National debt, if rightly managed,<br/>
will prove a national blessing, a fact is in-<br/>
cidentally stated which is of itself a start-<br/>
ling one. Not less than a hundred million<br/>
gallons of whiskey were distilled last year<br/>
in the loyal States! Some portion of this<br/>
was of course properly used in various arts<br/>
and manufactures; but for the larger part, we<br/>
may safely assume, will find its way to the<br/>
bar-rooms and saloons that meet us on ev<br/>
ery hand. From other statistics we learn that<br/>
a still larger quantity of ale, beer, and<br/>
cider was brewed in the same time; whilst of<br/>
domestic wines the manufacturing no doubt,<br/>
amounted to several million of gallons; as<br/>
in 1860 it reached nearly two millions, hav-<br/>
ing increased at the astonishing rate of seven<br/>
hundred and forty per cent during the pre-<br/>
ceding ten years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But Mr. Cooke takes into account sim-<br/>
ply the consumption of whiskers; and of this<br/>
he treats only upon financial grounds. On<br/>
our National debt of three thousand million<br/>
dollars, the annual interest is one hundred<br/>
and sixty-five million dollars. The revenue<br/>
tax upon whiskey is two dollars a gallon.<br/>
It is easy therefore to see that this single tax<br/>
if successfully collected, and if the manufac-<br/>
ture continue undiminished, would pay the<br/>
entire interest upon our enormous debt, with<br/>
a handsome surplus besides. Or if devoted<br/>
exclusively to the payment of the debt itself,<br/>
it would extinguish that formidable sum in<br/>
the brief space of fifteen years! Indeed,<br/>
should the consumption of whiskey continue<br/>
to increase as it has done for the past few<br/>
years, and if we embrace in the calculation<br/>
the entire Union, ten years would probably<br/>
suffice!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a curious circumstance, dwell upon<br/>
by Mr. Cook, that six tenths of all that whis-<br/>
key eludes the vigilance of revenue asses-<br/>
sors and collectors. How it happens, that<br/>
so large a proportion of distillers should at-<br/>
tempt to defend the Government, and the<br/>
attempt be so largely successful, we will not<br/>
stop to conjecture. The secular papers have<br/>
contained numerous accounts of similar at-<br/>
tempts, not always successful, on the part of<br/>
various brewers, to escape their portion of<br/>
the public burden. Whether the manufac-<br/>
ture of spirits and malt liquors has a ten-<br/>
dency to demoralize those engaged in it,<br/>
will be an interesting question to discuss<br/>
with the aid now furnished by revenue sta-<br/>
tistics.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But our present object is to obtain some<br/>
adequate conception of the imperial mag-<br/>
nitude of our whiskey potation. We have<br/>
mentioned only the tax upon whiskey; but<br/>
it to this we add the marketable value of the<br/>
article itself, and estimate the entire cost,<br/>
tax included, at the low average rate of two<br/>
and a half dollars a gallon, we have the start-<br/>
ling sum of two hundred and fifty millions<br/>
of dollars, as our present annual consump-<br/>
tion of whiskey in the loyal States. It would<br/>
be within bounds to say that the recovered<br/>
States would easily swell this amount to<br/>
three hundred millions.  Is it not a start-<br/>
ling fact that every ten years sum of mon-<br/>
ey, equivalent to the whole war-debt under<br/>
which the nation labors, goes down our<br/>
throats in the shape of whiskey!  It it has<br/>
excited the astonishment of the world that<br/>
in four years we would be willing to contri-<br/>
bute this amount to sustain our Govern-<br/>
ment, is it not a most astounding fact that<br/>
in ten years we would voluntarily swallow an<br/>
equally enormous amount from the worm of<br/>
the still!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Take another illustration.  The distance<br/>
from Baltimore to San Francisco is about<br/>
three thousand miles. The cost of railroad<br/>
construction was commonly estimated a few<br/>
years ago at twenty-five thousand dollars a<br/>
mile.  Estimating the present cost at double<br/>
that rate, though this is probably beyond the<br/>
fact, we have one hundred and fifty millions<br/>
as the cost of this iron band to rivet our<br/>
wide domain.  When a railroad to the Pa-<br/>
cific was first proposed, its projector was<br/>
ridiculed for advancing a visionary scheme.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government alone, it was affirmed,<br/>
could undertake so colossal a work, and na-<br/>
tional bankruptcy would be the result of so<br/>
Utopian an enterprise.  Yet it would now<br/>
appear that every six months we swallow,<br/>
in liquid fire, the means that would construct<br/>
this grand improvement.  Each year, it may<br/>
be safely said, a trans-continental railroad<br/>
with double track throughout, amply sup-<br/>
plied with rolling stock of the best descrip-<br/>
tion, and with a parallel line of telegraph<br/>
in complete working order, is offered up a<br/>
voluntary sacrifice, upon the counter of the<br/>
dram-seller!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One illustration more.  The daily average of<br/>
our whiskey consumption is about eight<br/>
hundred thousand dollars. The endowment<br/>
of a College, or Theological Seminary, is<br/>
ordinarily put at one hundred thousand<br/>
dollars. Let us, however, double this sum,<br/>
as being more near the minimum that should<br/>
be devoted to this purpose. And again we<br/>
have the startling fact that every twenty-<br/>
four hours that pass over us, we distil into<br/>
alcohol a sum that would endow four noble<br/>
institutions, with magnificent appliances,<br/>
for the education of our sons and daughters!<br/>
May we not well stand aghast at these<br/>
frightful revelations of our revenue assessors?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we might multiply illustrations with-<br/>
out end. Suffice it to say that the money<br/>
we devote to whiskey would in a few years<br/>
pay off our colossal debt, it would interlace<br/>
the States and belt the continent with rail-<br/>
road bands, it would cover the Union with<br/>
a telegraphic spider-web, it would illumin-<br/>
ate our coast with lighthouses and improve<br/>
our harbors for a commerce such as the<br/>
world has never before witnessed, it would<br/>
connect with a ship canal our unsurpassed<br/>
lake and river system, it would dot our land<br/>
with churches and schools, with colleges<br/>
seminaries, with asylums and hospitals, it<br/>
would make provision for the widows and<br/>
orphans, the maimed and the destitute,<br/>
whom the war has left as its sad legacy, it<br/>
would-—but where shall we stop in enumer-<br/>
ating the blessings which three hundred<br/>
millions a year, properly applied, might<br/>
diffuse over the whole land! Succeeding<br/>
centuries have wondered at the folly of the<br/>
Egyptian queen, in dissolving her costly<br/>
jewels to purchase the luxury of one expen-<br/>
sive draught. But the extravagance of<br/>
CLEOPATRA sinks into insignificance, when<br/>
compared with the wealth which we annu-<br/>
ally waste, into baleful draughts, by the<br/>
fatal alchemy of the distillier, and which<br/>
might have been transmuted into so much<br/>
public and private advantage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor have we touched upon the worst fea-<br/>
ture of the case. Were this money simply<br/>
lost, and nothing more, such a waste of<br/>
magnificent resources would be sad enough.<br/>
But no arithmetic can compute the fearful<br/>
aggregate of wretchedness and woe, of pov-<br/>
erty and disease, of misery and crime, of<br/>
tears and blood, which are comprehended<br/>
in these brief statistics-—one hundred mil-<br/>
lion gallons of whiskey per annum! The<br/>
blessings lost we almost forget, when we<br/>
come to contemplate the actual suffering<br/>
and shame which have spread over the land<br/>
in this deluge from the still. The records<br/>
of our courts and prisons, the revelations<br/>
of the cellars and garrets, in the crowded<br/>
abodes of want, might afford some faint pic-<br/>
ture of the wrecks that strew the whole<br/>
course of this fiery stream. But how many<br/>
immortal spirits have sunk to endless ruin<br/>
under this fearful tide of death, eternity<br/>
alone can disclose. From its dreadful sta-<br/>
tistics, could he not see them, the distiller<br/>
would shrink back appalled at the view of<br/>
the destruction he had wrought.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And yet we hear it suggested that efforts<br/>
will be made to induce the next Congress to<br/>
moderate the tax on whiskey, that the tide<br/>
of rain may flow more profusely. Should<br/>
such efforts be made, we trust the people<br/>
will express, in unmistakable ways, their<br/>
wishes that if any change be permitted, the<br/>
tax should be increased, and that its exac-<br/>
tion be rigidly enforced. Could the excise<br/>
on whiskey be placed so high as to confine<br/>
its use to medicine and the arts, gladly<br/>
might we forego the revenue which would<br/>
thus be lost, and with renewed courage<br/>
take up the burden of our national debt,<br/>
with national resources not impaired, but<br/>
invigorated, by the cessation of the poison-<br/>
ous stream that flows from the still.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Presbyterian Banner.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Carlyle's Prophecy.—Perhaps the<br/>
disfavor with which our national cause is<br/>
regarded in England is partly explained by<br/>
the remark recently attributed to Carlyle,<br/>
viz, "Let America succeed, and England<br/>
goes to Democracy by express train."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Pacific.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_7_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoining the<br/>
premises of the "Borneo Company Limited," and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 P. M., under the supervision of Prof. C. Hewesoon<br/>
for the purpose of practising Church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The American Era.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
History is made up of epochs or points<br/>
of time fixed by grant and remarkable ev-<br/>
ents. There are dynastic epochs or eras,<br/>
such as the Roman, Byzantine, Pagan,<br/>
Christian or Mohammedan;  and also per-<br/>
iods in the world's history which have been<br/>
established by historic events.  The chro-<br/>
nology of history has principally been the<br/>
result of military achievements with a single<br/>
exception—-the Christian era.  These have<br/>
been effected by extraordinary men of gen-<br/>
ius, whose deeds of prowess or sagacity<br/>
have given new impetus and a marked<br/>
character to their times.  In the earliest<br/>
chronology, during the Assyrian war, Belus<br/>
was vanquished by Haikus, King of Arm-<br/>
enia; then Semiramis conquered Armenia,<br/>
and Tygraenes in turn led many Asiatic<br/>
monarchs before him as hostages.  The feats<br/>
of Xerxes, with his immense hosts, against<br/>
the Greeks mark a period in history.  Al-<br/>
exander and Caesar also stand out in the<br/>
boldest relief; and the fame of many war-<br/>
riors in the struggle of nations is imperish-<br/>
able, although they have not constituted<br/>
distinctive eras in history. Constantine,<br/>
Charlemagne and Mohammed have stum-<br/>
ped  with their own names the eras in which<br/>
they fought and flourished. The Thirty<br/>
Years' War of Germany, the Magna Charta<br/>
of England and the American Revolution<br/>
are all fixed epochs, and a "Petit Corporal"<br/>
has made his distinguishing mark and trans-<br/>
mitted to posterity the lasting remem-<br/>
brance of Waterloo, a mausoleum as endur-<br/>
ing as the pyramids of Cheops.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We of the nineteenth century, looking<br/>
with awe and amazement into the retro-<br/>
spect of the mighty past, have ourselves<br/>
enacted a more wonderful epoch in the<br/>
world's history than any which has hither-<br/>
to transpired. There never was such a bat-<br/>
tle field as this continent of North Ameri-<br/>
ca; nor was there ever such a rush to arms.<br/>
The hordes of Xerxes, whose arrows bedim-<br/>
med the sun, could not have numbered<br/>
more than three hundred thousand men,<br/>
undisciplined and accoutred with the rudest<br/>
implements of warfare; and the whole com-<br/>
bined forces which figured on the battle<br/>
fields of Europe in the Napoleonic era scar-<br/>
cely exceeded one million. The American<br/>
rebellion has called out three million of<br/>
soldiers from a population enjoying all the<br/>
benefits of civilization; men of intelligence,<br/>
education and the highest moral culture;<br/>
men from every rank of life, of whom our<br/>
lamented ruler nobly said, "Each one is fit<br/>
to be a President," thus attesting the man-<br/>
hood of each patriot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The complete equipment and mainten-<br/>
ance of this immense army, which has<br/>
elicited the admiration of the civilized world,<br/>
has displayed the unbounded resources of<br/>
the country. The bounties to volunteers<br/>
and the liberal pay of the soldiers have<br/>
never been equalled. No history records<br/>
such exploits as will be told of us, such in-<br/>
stances of individual heroism, such selfim-<br/>
nfolation on the altar of patriotism. It did<br/>
not suffice that thousands of families were<br/>
called to mourn the loss of their kinsmen;<br/>
but the sacrifice of the head of the nation<br/>
was also needed to complete the tragedy.<br/>
The purse strings of the nation have been<br/>
opened and the treasure lavishly bestowed.<br/>
The people have borne the severest taxation<br/>
without murmuring, and now it is not im-<br/>
probable that our immense national debt of<br/>
three thousand ?millions of dollars will be<br/>
entirely assumed and cancelled by our<br/>
wealthy citizens, an idea emanating from<br/>
the same spirit of pure patriotism which<br/>
has maintained the war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The record of the achievements of our<br/>
military men will be more brilliant than<br/>
any which has hitherto marked the pages<br/>
of history. The cutting of the canal around<br/>
Island No. 10, on the Mississippi, and the<br/>
successful transportation of steamers through<br/>
the woods was a wonderful feat of engineer-<br/>
ing, excelling the transportation of artillery<br/>
over the Alps. The capture of New Or-<br/>
leans is equal if not superior to the engag-<br/>
ement at Trafalgar or the battle of Aboukir.<br/>
The conflict between the Monitor and the<br/>
rebel ram Merrimac, in Hampton Roads,<br/>
and the engagement and sinking of the Al-<br/>
abama excited the wonder and the admira-<br/>
tion of the whole world. The passage of<br/>
the entire Army of the Potomac, by Grant,<br/>
across the James, in the very presence of<br/>
the enemy, without loss; the raid of Sher-<br/>
man through Georgia, South and North<br/>
Carolina, and Sheridan's cavalry maneuv-<br/>
ers, causing the fall of Richmond-—the Ma-<br/>
lakoff of the rebellion-—with the surrender<br/>
of Lee, are grand exploits hitherto unsurpas-<br/>
sed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The glory of these achievements is en-<br/>
hanced by the fact that this struggle has<br/>
not been between superior and inferior<br/>
races, nor to repel foreign aggression; but<br/>
but between father and son, brother and brot-<br/>
her—of one race, one blood, one culture and<br/>
one ability. If the arms of the Union have<br/>
been victorious it was not merely by force<br/>
of numbers, for the rebellion had the advan-<br/>
tage by being indigenous to the soil and<br/>
standing on the defensive: also, without<br/>
doubt, aided and abetted by enemies of the<br/>
republic.  It was the moral rectitude of the<br/>
cause, the ultimate liberty and union of<br/>
both North and South, the rescue of so<br/>
many millions of the human race from slav-<br/>
ery which, like Aaron and Hur, stayed up<br/>
our hands until this Amalek was utterly<br/>
discomfited.  If the military men of our<br/>
country have been equal if not superior to<br/>
any of their predecessors, it is because there<br/>
is a stamina in the American people equal<br/>
to any emergency.  For, when was Ameri-<br/>
can ingenuity ever at fault?  Colton was<br/>
crowned king by the sagacity of Whitney;<br/>
the exuberance of our prairies has been<br/>
garnered by McCormick; a girdle has been<br/>
put around the earth by Morse, and print-<br/>
ing has been accelerated to lightning speed<br/>
by Hoe, Colt, Spencer, Dahlgren and a<br/>
host of others have combined to make the<br/>
artillery of war more terrible, and Parrott's<br/>
swamp angels have annihilated distance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our recent struggle has developed the<br/>
military genius of the hour, and our armies<br/>
and navies have been led on to battle and<br/>
victory by men whose names will be hand-<br/>
ed down to posterity. Grant, Sherman,<br/>
Sheridan, Farragut, Porter and a host of<br/>
others, have made this age and this land<br/>
illustrious. Our battle fields are sacred<br/>
ground, consecrated by the blood of patriot<br/>
soldiers, and the footprints of the veterans<br/>
who have fought for union, liberty and<br/>
equality. Two hundred thousand of these<br/>
veterans have just been on review at the<br/>
national capital—the most imposing milit-<br/>
ray spectacles the world ever witnessed. One<br/>
million of these brave men yesterday re-<br/>
ceived ovations all over a grateful nation.<br/>
The great Napoleon observed that "with<br/>
French infantry and Mameluke cavalry he<br/>
could conquer the world," and General<br/>
Grant, with better justice, may say, with<br/>
Sherman's veterans and Sheriden's cavalry<br/>
he could go from pole to pole, conquering<br/>
and to conquer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Henceforth the republic of the United<br/>
States stands before the world the greatest<br/>
of nations, and the American era will be<br/>
the most distinguished in the annals of his-<br/>
tory.{{< news/indent4 >}}New York Herald.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We have been quite gratified on per-<br/>
ceiving that His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King of Siam, has taken encouraging notice<br/>
of an article in our last issue of the Siam-<br/>
ese Recorder concerning the great Bazar<br/>
of the city. In that article we felt it due<br/>
to His Majesty to praise him for the great<br/>
improvement that had been made in the<br/>
street of the Bazar, and the thorough pro-<br/>
tection of it by the royal Police Force.<br/>
But as we found a few places in the street<br/>
that had been broken up and become quite<br/>
muddy and unpleasant, the thought occur-<br/>
red to us that if His Majesty could be<br/>
respectfully informed of it by our paper<br/>
he would very likely cause those breaks<br/>
to be repaired.  And so it has proved.<br/>
We are informed that His Majesty, having<br/>
noticed our remark, has ordered that he<br/>
would this season visit temple Koh and<br/>
temple Samp'eng by a procession through<br/>
the Bazar, instead of going by the river,<br/>
which has ever been the custom.  This<br/>
was sufficient hint to inform the officers in charge<br/>
of the Bazar, that the street must previous-<br/>
ly be well repaired.  And we were happy<br/>
in walking it on the 12th, a day after the<br/>
procession to find that the work had really<br/>
been done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It being now the season for the annual<br/>
visitation, of the temples, of Buddh by the<br/>
king, His Majesty the Supreme King is<br/>
now daily devoted to this work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BIRTH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 11th inst, the wife of Mr. Charles<br/>
Howarth, of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—is now<br/>
ready to receive Vessels of any burthen<br/>
and the attention of Ship Owners,<br/>
Agents and Masters is respectfully<br/>
solicited to the advantages for Repair-<br/>
ing and Sparring Vessels which no<br/>
other Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of the<br/>
Premises is submitted for the informa-<br/>
tion of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of wa-<br/>
ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Length. 300 feet. (to be extended)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breadth. 100 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Depth of Water 15 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Caisson,<br/>
has a splendid entrance of 120 feet<br/>
from the River with a spacious Jetty on<br/>
each side, where Vessels of any size<br/>
may lay at any state of the Tides, to<br/>
lift Masts, Boilers etc.—with Powerful<br/>
Lifting Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring Dis-<br/>
patch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the differ-<br/>
ent departments of Ship-wrights, Mast<br/>
and Black Makers, Blacksmiths,<br/>
Engineers, Foundry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended by<br/>
Europeans who have had many years<br/>
experience in the different branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best picked<br/>
men from Hongkong and Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular at-<br/>
tention to the Great advantages this<br/>
Dock offers, being in a Port where<br/>
the best Teak and other Timber can<br/>
be had at the cheapest cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in con-<br/>
nection with the Dock to insure dis-<br/>
patch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in height<br/>
and can be taken out or shifted with-<br/>
out cutting or causing any expense to<br/>
ships having to get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared to<br/>
give estimates or enter into Contracts<br/>
for the repairing of Wooden or Iron<br/>
Ships; or the Building of New Ships,<br/>
Steam Boats, etc. or any kind of work<br/>
connected with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may lay<br/>
at the Company's Buoy's or Wharf free<br/>
of charge until ordered to remove by<br/>
the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leaving<br/>
the Dock must approve and sign<br/>
there-—Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting the<br/>
docking to be addressed until further<br/>
notice to the undersigned by whom all<br/>
Bills will be signed and collected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN BUSH
Managing Director.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having had for<br/>
many years experiences in Europe as<br/>
Mill-wright, and Engineer as well as<br/>
Surveyor, and Valuer of Machinery,<br/>
Contractor for the Erection and repair-<br/>
ing of<br/>
  Marine and Stationary Engines.<br/>
  Boilers of every description.<br/>
  Sugar Mills and Gearing.<br/>
  Hydro Extractors for drying sugar.<br/>
  Rice Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Saw Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Oil Mills & Presses.<br/>
  Hydraulic Presses.<br/>
  Rolling Mills for Silver, Copper
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and Lead.<br/>
  Iron Bridges.<br/>
  Swing Cranes for Wharfs.<br/>
  Water Wheels.<br/>
  Mill Gearing.<br/>
  Fitting wood Cogs in Wheel.<br/>
  Patterns for Bernal and Spar wheels.<br/>
  Contrifugal and other Pumps for<br/>
  Land Irrigation. &c. &c. &c.<br/>
begs to notify all Steam Ship, Rice,<br/>
and Sugar Mill Owners and the Public<br/>
in General. that he is now ready to<br/>
Execute all orders in connection with<br/>
the above, and can be consulted at any<br/>
time between the Hours of 10 A. M.<br/>
and 4 P. M. at the Bangkok Dock<br/>
Company's New Dock, at Koh Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHARLES HOWARTH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Holding Certificates as passed<br/>
Engineer and Mill-wright from the<br/>
British Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the public-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A NEW JOKE of OUR PRESIDENT.—Bishop<br/>
Simpson recently delivered his great lecture<br/>
in Wesley Chapel, Washington, to a large<br/>
audience, among whom we remarked Pre-<br/>
sident Lincoln and Secretary Stanton. The<br/>
Bishop was very eloquent, and everybody<br/>
seemed completely carried away. He told<br/>
an anecdote during the course of his speech,<br/>
about a Kentuckian, who was asked by an<br/>
Englishman what were the boundaries of<br/>
our country. The Kentuckian replied that<br/>
the United States were "bounded on the<br/>
east by the rising sun, on the west by<br/>
the procession of the equinoxes, on the north<br/>
by the Aurora Borealis, and on the south<br/>
by the day of judgment." This reminded<br/>
the facetious President of the following<br/>
story, which he told us once to those<br/>
around him, in the midst of the Bishop's<br/>
eloquence: "John Bull met with a North<br/>
American Indian, and, in the course of<br/>
conversation, was very anxious to impress<br/>
him with the greatness of the British em-<br/>
pire. 'The sun,' said Mr. Bull, 'never sets<br/>
on English dominion. Do you understand<br/>
how that is?' 'O yes,' said the Indian,<br/>
'that is because God is afraid to trust<br/>
them in the dark.'
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_10_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r81">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST OCT 14TH 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">133</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Barq</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Here</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ingerman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">976</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">British<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">333</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Alardus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Popp</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">813</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ham. Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">339</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">A. Petronella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Voorendyte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ducth Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Biten G. Timore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">110</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Duppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Prus.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Aladus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">813</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Popp</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Petronella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">710</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Voorendyte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Binten G. Timore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">110</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prussian do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chantaloon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">276</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sinagpore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">248</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hartlepool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barkintine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwold &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh So</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Illus. Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Eames</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Morning Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Lit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">122</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tik Chi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Poop</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
