---
linkTitle: 'February 15th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - February 15th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); February 15th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 3
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 15TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 3</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang<br/>
Luang" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANGKOK FEBRUARY 15TH
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King is some-what interested in the oil<br/>
question. The reference of our correspon-<br/>
dent in a former issue to the oil regions in<br/>
some parts of the United States, and the<br/>
suggestion that oil might possibly be found<br/>
in Siam, has excited a desire in the mind<br/>
of His Majesty to have some one who un-<br/>
derstands the business, explore the country<br/>
and point out where oil may be found.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We publish in another column a note<br/>
from His Majesty upon this subject, which<br/>
although evidently a little tinctured with<br/>
irony shows that His Majesty does not<br/>
object to any enterprise which tends to<br/>
develope the resources of the country pro-<br/>
viding it does not delve too deeply into<br/>
the Royal treasury.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whether our correspondent can give any<br/>
additional information upon the oil question<br/>
remains to be seen. His Majesty complains<br/>
that many foreigners would try to induce<br/>
the Siamese, to enter into many things at<br/>
great expense, which they think would be<br/>
of no advantage to them. We suppose it<br/>
would be difficult to accept all the pro-<br/>
posals made to the Siamese by Europeans<br/>
and it will require the exercise of judge-<br/>
ment to choose those which will be really<br/>
useful, but we are sorry that His Majesty<br/>
thinks that his people are not yet in a con-<br/>
dition to appreciate railroads and tele-<br/>
graphs. He thinks the iron rails and<br/>
telegraph wires, would be too great a<br/>
temptation to their thieving propensities.<br/>
We trust however that the day is not far<br/>
distant when the countries north will be<br/>
thoroughly explored and the facilities of-<br/>
fered for trade will be such as to induce<br/>
foreign capitalists to undertake the con-<br/>
struction of railroads and telegraphs even<br/>
here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the most extensive railroads in<br/>
the United States are owned by European<br/>
capitalists and English capitalists are also<br/>
engaging extensively in the oil business in<br/>
the United States. It is but recently that<br/>
the thought was conceived of connecting<br/>
the Eastern and Western hemispheres by<br/>
telegraph, yet there is but a comparatively<br/>
short link wanting in the great chain which<br/>
will connect Siam with Europe and event-<br/>
ually with America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
May we not then look for the time, when<br/>
this link will be completed, and when we<br/>
shall converse daily with our antipodes. May<br/>
we not also look for the time when the<br/>
cars loaded with freight and passengers, will<br/>
roll their ponderous wheels between this<br/>
and the great Celestial empire, and even<br/>
between different portions of this kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CITY OF DIAMONDS.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE BANGKOK,
RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dear Sir— The monotony of our quiet<br/>
life in this rural city, has been again some-<br/>
what interrupted, during the past week, by<br/>
the arrival of another visitor, though not a<br/>
royal one this time, with whose face we<br/>
hope to become familiar in the future, and<br/>
to whose visits we shall look for something,<br/>
to please and instruct. We would welcome<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder to our fireside, if we<br/>
had one; as it is, we will give it an honor-<br/>
able place on our table, and trust that it has<br/>
before it, a career of usefulness and honor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the ends at which you aim, is the<br/>
dissemination of reliable information abroad<br/>
in reference to Siam, the development of<br/>
its resources, stimulating to activity the<br/>
dormant mental powers of this people, elev-<br/>
ating their moral standards, encouraging<br/>
their trade, and agriculture, everything in<br/>
fact which will tend to the mental, moral<br/>
and religious training of the numerous races<br/>
have assembled. You have a boundless<br/>
field before you, that promises to repay<br/>
well, the labor and toil of its cultivation.<br/>
By paying I do not mean any very great<br/>
pecuniary profits suddenly to he derived,<br/>
hut the pleasure of seeing all of these ends<br/>
and others, gradually and surely, though it<br/>
may he slowly, accomplished. It is I think an<br/>
auspicious time for the advent of journalism.<br/>
Every thing is in a formative state. Old<br/>
Siam, is passing away, or is at least awaken-<br/>
ing from her long dark slumber of seclusion,<br/>
ignorance, and superstition. Young Siam,<br/>
can never again be what the old was. It<br/>
has much to gain yet, as immense distance<br/>
to go over, before it can claim to be in point<br/>
of intelligence, literature, science, and reli-<br/>
gion, what the Western nations are.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the light has broken in. Old and<br/>
cherished customs have been broken up.<br/>
This is a great deal in the East where cus-<br/>
tom is law and reigns supreme. It is just<br/>
now at that stage where a few years may<br/>
equal so many centuries at other times.<br/>
More changes have taken place in the last<br/>
decade of years than had been made in a<br/>
century previous. The next will probably<br/>
witness no less, it may be much greater and<br/>
more astonishing ones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That Siam possesses more than its intrin-<br/>
sic importance, a glance at the map with<br/>
any knowledge of its history for a few years<br/>
will show. Trade, which in other countries<br/>
is the growth of centuries, has sprung up as<br/>
a mushroom in a day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not merely its population of six or<br/>
seven millions that invests it with such im-<br/>
portance. You may cut off several times<br/>
that numbor from China, or India, and in<br/>
themselves they would not possess any of<br/>
that interest which Siam holds in the civil-<br/>
ized world. There is much in the geo-<br/>
graphical position which a country occupies.<br/>
It has not always been the largest of the<br/>
most populous countries, that have exerted<br/>
most influence in the world's progress. The<br/>
influence of Palestine, will be felt when that<br/>
of Egypt, and Assyria, will have passed<br/>
away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Greece will live in her poets, orators, his-<br/>
torians, and philosophers, while the Medes,<br/>
and Persians, have left but little to impress<br/>
the world, but the mere report of their<br/>
numbers. While in later periods, an island<br/>
far less than Siam, governs the most po-<br/>
pulous portions of the earth. The geo-<br/>
graphical position in all of these cases, and<br/>
many others that might he mentioned, con-<br/>
tribnted not a little to their greatness. A<br/>
position sufficiently isolated to enable it to<br/>
work out its own problem of government,<br/>
and yet sufficiently accessible to the other<br/>
nations, to make its influence felt, seems on<br/>
the whole most desirable. Siam, has some-<br/>
what such a position. It is situated a little<br/>
distant from the great thoroughfare of the<br/>
nations. It is not a Gibraltar, to make its<br/>
acquisition a necessity to some of the great<br/>
powers, and an object of jealousy to the<br/>
others. Yet when it shall throw of the<br/>
shackles that bind it down, that will forever<br/>
prevent its taking a front position among<br/>
the nations of the earth,—when it shall em-<br/>
brace not only a liberal policy of government,<br/>
but a true and elevating system of religion,<br/>
which would of itself encourage and develope<br/>
literature, science and the arts,—when the<br/>
millions of money now spent in the support<br/>
of polygamy, and idolatry shall be devoted<br/>
to schools and colleges, and churches, and<br/>
canals, and railroads, and telegraphs, it will<br/>
be sufficiently near the great outside world,<br/>
to give it an influence for good. Were its<br/>
present rulers, who have done so much for<br/>
it already,—only awakened to the respon-<br/>
sibility of their station, they could make it<br/>
the pride and the admiration of Christen-<br/>
dom, while they would thereby at the same<br/>
time, establish their own power on a per-<br/>
manent basis. Such a result however, is pro-<br/>
bably more than can be hoped for. Yet it is<br/>
worth of the United labor of all who have<br/>
taken up their residence here. Every class<br/>
of representatives from christian nations,<br/>
consuls and physicians, missionaries and mer-<br/>
chants and seamen have it in their power, to<br/>
do some thing towards hastening such a<br/>
result. But in whatever place may be assign-<br/>
ed to others, you may, Mr. Editor, without<br/>
boasting, claim a position inferior to none<br/>
unless the history of the past is all belied.<br/>
In reference to Siam, the press must have<br/>
an important place in its elevation, and<br/>
progress. I trust your most ardent hopes<br/>
of usefulness, may be realized in your new<br/>
position. I intended when I commenced, to<br/>
say something about one race that forms no<br/>
inconsiderable portion of the population of<br/>
this country, whose province, in the north,<br/>
is one of the most important in his Majesty’s<br/>
dominions, and concerning whom but little<br/>
is known abroad. Having dwelt so long<br/>
on other subjects, I must defer any account<br/>
of the Laos, and a tour taken to their coun-<br/>
try, to another time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours &c.
D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FROM NEW YORK CORRESPONDENCE OF
LONDON DAILY NEW
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
NEW YORK Nov. 8th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You may remember that two months ago<br/>
I informed you that the probabilities were<br/>
that Lincoln would carry all the Northern<br/>
States but three, and these I set down as<br/>
Maryland, Kentucky, and New Jersey. I<br/>
have proved right as to the number, though<br/>
wrong as to the particular States. Mary-<br/>
land has not voted for General Mc. Clellan,<br/>
but Delaware has, while the result in New<br/>
Jersey and Kentucky has been what I anti-<br/>
cipated. The general issue of the elcetion<br/>
i that twenty one out of twenty four States<br/>
have voted for Lincoln, the "preponder-<br/>
ating section" of the Northern people,<br/>
which according to the Times had conclu-<br/>
ded that "the war was a failure," and ought<br/>
to be abandoned, consisting of the majority<br/>
in three States, two of which are slave<br/>
States, and one of them, Delaware, the<br/>
smallest in the Union. The policy of pro-<br/>
secuting the war for the purpose of reducing<br/>
the South to subjection, and destroying<br/>
slavery - of which Mr. Lincoln is the cham-<br/>
pion - has, therefore, received the most<br/>
emphatic confirmation which it is in the<br/>
power of the country to bestow on it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He is the sixth President who has en-<br/>
joyed the honor of re-election, Washington<br/>
being one; and has achieved a triumph, as<br/>
regards the extent of his majority, such as<br/>
has fallen to the lot of none of his prede-<br/>
cessors since the election of Monroe in 1820.<br/>
I think I may safely say that this has justi-<br/>
fied, all that I have ever ventured to assert<br/>
in your columns as to the strength of the<br/>
determination, on the part of the Northern<br/>
people, to continue the contest to the last<br/>
extremity. For it must be remembered,<br/>
that Lincoln, owes no part of his success to<br/>
what the democrats call the "bogus States,"<br/>
meaning those States which are held by<br/>
military force, though nominally within the<br/>
Union. Louisiana, and Arkansas have not<br/>
voted, and Kentucky gave 20,000 majority<br/>
against him. The verdict which has been<br/>
rendered is emphatically that of the people<br/>
of the free States. And it cannot be said,<br/>
either, that it has been due to an outburst of<br/>
unreasoning enthusiasm. The war has now<br/>
lasted four years, and though great successes<br/>
have been achieved, the end is still distant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The loss of life has been very great; the<br/>
drain on the population of the Western<br/>
States has been very heavy; the public debt<br/>
which has accumulated is enormous, and is<br/>
the burden of taxation; and the depreca-<br/>
tion of the currency, presses with pecular<br/>
severity upon the poor, and on persons with<br/>
fixed incomes. Every body is now per-<br/>
fectly familiar with the difficulties of the<br/>
struggle, and there is now few outside the<br/>
great towns who have not suffered from it,<br/>
either in mind, body, or estate. So that<br/>
the decision which was rendered on last<br/>
Tuesday must have been dictated by calm<br/>
and deliberate resolve, must have come from<br/>
men who had counted the cost and were<br/>
willing to bear it. As I have often said<br/>
before, the Northern people may be infat-<br/>
uated about the matter: it may be that the<br/>
enterprise in which they engaged is a<br/>
hopeless one; but it is of the last import-<br/>
ance that Englishmen should clearly under-<br/>
stand that they are in earnest, and that<br/>
peace will come, whenever it does come,<br/>
either from the submission of the South, or<br/>
the exhaustion of the free States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From their weariness or despair it will,<br/>
in my opinion, never come. And I think<br/>
what has just occurred is a curious com-<br/>
mentary, too, on opinions generally preva-<br/>
lent in aristocratic countries as to the fick-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
leness of democracy, and its blindness or<br/>
indifference to the remote consequences of<br/>
its acts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very few have voted for Lincoln who<br/>
were not impelled to it by what they saw,<br/>
or thought they saw, in the far distant future,<br/>
by the consideration of the propable effect<br/>
of a dissolution of the Union on the honor<br/>
and welfare of their children and their<br/>
children's children. Of the Immediate ad-<br/>
vantages that would flow from peace every<br/>
body is aware ; but to the evil consequences<br/>
that would ultimately flow from it every<br/>
body is also alive. I think the great ma-<br/>
jority of the Northern people are anxious<br/>
to fight on new, in some degree from a re-<br/>
gard for the national honor, but in a still<br/>
greater degree because they believe that<br/>
the recognition of the confederacy would<br/>
lead, sooner or later, to the further division<br/>
of the union, to the establishment of several<br/>
small States, and consequently, to long and<br/>
incessant were, if for nothing else, for the<br/>
preservation of that "balances of power"<br/>
for which European statesman have been<br/>
fighting for five hundred years, and which<br/>
they never seem to succeed in permanently<br/>
establishing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The election passed off, in spite of the<br/>
anticipation to the contrary, with perfect<br/>
quiet. Up to the hour of the closing of the<br/>
last mail the city, as I told you had a Sun-<br/>
day look. I walked about the streets during<br/>
the evening, and was struck by the silence<br/>
that seemed to reign every where, and yet<br/>
not a uniform except that of the police was<br/>
visible all day long. But the troops were<br/>
on board Steamers in the river, ready to be<br/>
thrown ashore at any point at which a dis-<br/>
turbance might occur, and the knowledge<br/>
of theis fact no doubt had a salutary influence<br/>
on the roughs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About nine o'clock I went to Tammany<br/>
Hall, the head quarters of the democracy,<br/>
in which it has for forty or fifty years, been<br/>
their wont to assemble on the evening of<br/>
election day, and hear the returns read, and<br/>
listen to the spouting of their favorite ora-<br/>
tors. When I arrived I found a stream<br/>
descending the stairway quite as large as<br/>
that which was ascending, and from their<br/>
looks concluded that the news which was<br/>
coming in was not considered favorable.<br/>
The hall was densely packed by a moat un-<br/>
savory crowd, not by any means so dirty<br/>
or ill dressed as a London audience of the<br/>
same class, but decidedly ruffianly in ap-<br/>
pearance and a large propotion evidently<br/>
Irish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lights burned dimly through the<br/>
thick clouds of tobacco smoke, and there<br/>
was a strong smell of whiskey. "Captain"<br/>
Bynoers, a mob leader of great reputation<br/>
and influence, who is the old times, before<br/>
the establishment of the city police, was<br/>
in the habit of controling the elections in<br/>
many wards of the city, by sending his<br/>
followers round to the polls, to break the<br/>
heads of all voters of the opposite party,<br/>
who attempted to approach them, was ad-<br/>
dressing the meeting. He is an American,<br/>
of strong and rather coarse features, and<br/>
though well dressed, had reduced himself<br/>
to democratic trim by unbuttoning his<br/>
waistcoat, taking off his cravat, and unbut-<br/>
toning his shirt front, and during the pro-<br/>
cess of his discourse gave his face, neck,<br/>
and shoulders a vigorous rubbing with a<br/>
dirty pocket handkerchief. He was evid-<br/>
ently not in good spirits, and was occupied<br/>
in preparing his hearers for a disappoint-<br/>
ment. But this roused them to will, and<br/>
was very powerful and fierce in suppressing<br/>
all interruptions which were not of a com-<br/>
plimentary nature, by threatening to "settle<br/>
with" the persons making them. When<br/>
I succeeded in getting a foot-hold on a bench<br/>
where I could see and hear him, he was<br/>
engaged in accusing the republican party<br/>
of an intention to persecute the catholics as<br/>
soon as they had subjugated the slavehold-<br/>
ers, and brought down roars of applause<br/>
by his denunciations of what he called "re-<br/>
ligious intolerance." From this he passed<br/>
rapidly to abuse of the negro, and occupied<br/>
himself in it during the remainder of my<br/>
stay—nearly half an hour—and anything<br/>
so ribald and disgusting I have never heard<br/>
in a public assemblage. He rang the changes<br/>
for twenty minutes on the smell of the ne-<br/>
groes, and on their lips, nose, and<br/>
"wool," and interspersed it all with denun-<br/>
ciations of the "miscogenators," recurring<br/>
incessantly to the passion which he ascrib-<br/>
ed to the republican leaders for "nigger<br/>
wenches." To the Irish he was very com-<br/>
plimentary, and the accent in which most<br/>
of the plaudits were uttered showed that<br/>
the greater part of his audience were of that<br/>
nation. One joke, which he repeated se-<br/>
veral times, invariably brought down the<br/>
house. It consisted in speaking of some<br/>
body as a "Frenchman who, from his name,<br/>
must have been born in Paris, for it was<br/>
"Micky McGuinness" or 'Pat Reilly.' "<br/>
Neither the election returns, however, nor<br/>
his comments on them, were of a nature to<br/>
keep up the spirits of his audience, and be-<br/>
fore I left, it had grown very thin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}John Brown’s body is mouldering in the grave,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But his soul is marching on—<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
There was another democratic gathering<br/>
of the same kind at Mozart-hall, in which<br/>
the followers of Fernando Wood, or, as they<br/>
call him, "Fernando Wud," met for a similar<br/>
purpose, but as it was in no respect different<br/>
from that at Tammany-hall. I did not think<br/>
it worth while to visit it. The republicans<br/>
had engaged the large hall of the Cooper<br/>
Institute, the largest room in New York,<br/>
accommodating, I believe, between three<br/>
and four thousand persons, had procured a<br/>
band of music, and had the telegraphic<br/>
wires brought on to the platform, so that<br/>
the returns might be read as they arrived.<br/>
When I reached the place it was densely<br/>
crowded, and there was a large gathering<br/>
outside, waiting for news, and taking up<br/>
the cheering that was heard in the inside.<br/>
I do not think I ever saw a more enthusias-<br/>
tic meeting, and the cheering was such as<br/>
one hardly ever hears under a roof. When<br/>
the despatch was read announcing that<br/>
"Glorious Old Massachusetts" as the chair-<br/>
man called it, had given 60,000 majority<br/>
for Lincoln, the whole audience rose and<br/>
gave three cheers and “ one cheer more,”<br/>
waving their hats, and large numbers stand-<br/>
ing on the benches in order to give greater<br/>
range to their shouts. And the difference<br/>
between their appearance and that of the<br/>
crowd at Tammany-hall was in itself a com-<br/>
plete commentary on New York politics.<br/>
The men before me here plainly belonged<br/>
to the flower of the native population. They<br/>
were all well dressed and clean, and a large<br/>
proportion bore evident marks of New Eng-<br/>
land origin and training. The high, though<br/>
rather narrow foreheads, regular and well-<br/>
cut, but rather sharp features, bright but<br/>
rather cold eyes, the quick, eager look, and<br/>
nervous gestures, all told more plainly than<br/>
words could tell that a large proportion of<br/>
them had been born or bred on Yankee soil.<br/>
And if one had any doubt about it, it would<br/>
have been removed by the way in which<br/>
all the New England news was received.<br/>
I don’t think I ever saw such a burst of<br/>
enthusiasm as followed the announcement<br/>
that the Massachusetts majority was not<br/>
60,000, but 75,000. Some elderly men<br/>
near me had their eyes filled with tears.<br/>
Every mention of the names of Grant, or<br/>
Sherman, or Farragut, brought down the<br/>
house, no matter how often repeated. In<br/>
one of the intervals of the speaking, the<br/>
band was called on for "Yankee Doodle,"<br/>
and there being some delay in commencing<br/>
it, a number of persons—two or three<br/>
hundred I should think—began to whistle<br/>
the air, and whistled it through—finishing<br/>
amidst tremendous applause. The time<br/>
passed thus, speaking, cheering, and hearing<br/>
the telegraphic returns read till near 1<br/>
o’clock, apparently without the slightest<br/>
diminution of the excitement, when there<br/>
followed a scene such as has, perhaps, never<br/>
been witnessed at a political meeting.<br/>
Lincoln's election was now certain, and the<br/>
chairman requested the band to play the<br/>
"Old Hundred," which name one has not<br/>
aptly called the "Puritan war song," and<br/>
the audience rose and sang the psalm in<br/>
full chorus, and then broke up, large num-<br/>
bers singing "John Brown" as they went<br/>
out :<br/>
a rather doggrel ditty, originating with the<br/>
abolitionists at the outset of the war, but<br/>
since adopted by the army, and in fact by<br/>
the whole North, as a sort of war song.<br/>
The air is fine, though simple, and the<br/>
words have enough of the hymns about them<br/>
to mingling a religious fervour with the<br/>
political enthusiasm which they excite.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
entertainment, as I have received all the kindness<br/>
which has welcomed me here, with feelings at once<br/>
of pleasure and embarrassment; of pleasure at feel-<br/>
ing that an Englishman who, like you, loves liberty<br/>
and social justice, has in America a second home;<br/>
of embarrassment, and almost of shame, when I<br/>
think how little I can possibly have done to merit<br/>
such attentions. If a mere writer could ever have<br/>
been led by this kind welcome to over-estimate his<br/>
own services, such feelings would have been banish-<br/>
ed from my mind when I was present at a soldier's<br/>
funeral and now borne past me the body of one who<br/>
has given to this cause not mere words of sympathy,<br/>
but a young, promising, and happy life. I was not<br/>
even among the last to perceive the claims of your<br/>
cause upon our sympathies, though, from the time<br/>
when it came clear out of the mists which at first<br/>
surrounded it, as the cause not only of your territo-<br/>
rial greatness but of humanity and civilization, and<br/>
brought out the nobler part of the national charact-<br/>
er, which to the eye of distant spectators had been<br/>
at first obscured, it has received the deep and un-<br/>
wavering allegiance of my heart. On all grounds,<br/>
then, I accept this honour, not for myself, but for<br/>
the great party in England of which I am an ad-<br/>
herent, and which has followed you with its good<br/>
wishes through this great struggle. Would that<br/>
Cobden or Bright were here in my place to represent<br/>
your English friends more worthily, and to acknow-<br/>
ledge this tribute in better words than my unprac-<br/>
tised tongue can command. In truth, little gratitude<br/>
is due from you to any English liberal who has<br/>
raised his voice in support of this cause. It is our<br/>
cause as well as yours. Our hopes of political pro-<br/>
gress have sunk with your calamities. They will<br/>
revive with your victories; they will revive with<br/>
your victories over your enemies in the field; they<br/>
will revive still more with your moral victories at<br/>
home. The tidings are now on their way to Eng-<br/>
land for which English liberals have been waiting<br/>
with intense anxiety, and which will fill their hearts<br/>
with gratitude, joy, and renewed hope. This great<br/>
triumph—this great ratification of the principles<br/>
for which you have done and suffered so much, and<br/>
on which your common wealth is founded—will<br/>
cause almost as much exultation in England as it is<br/>
causing here. I came here purely in pursuance of<br/>
my vocation as a student of history, to verify the<br/>
theory which I had formed. I came to see whether<br/>
the progress of humanity, which I had learned to<br/>
trace through all the ages, and believed to be per-<br/>
petual, had been arrested here. I shall return con-<br/>
vinced that it has not been arrested. I was told<br/>
that my visit to America would modify my liberal<br/>
opinions. In a certain sense I own they have been<br/>
modified. Till I came here I was—not a revolutionist,<br/>
for no man can more heartily abhor violent revolu-<br/>
tions—but somewhat impatient of political evils,<br/>
and anxious for vehement effort and for immediate<br/>
change. I shall return with my impatience allayed<br/>
by a calm assurance of the future. You will suc-<br/>
ceed in your great experiment, and we shall in the<br/>
end feel, in the solution of our political problems,<br/>
the beneficent effects of your success. I came also<br/>
to see a great political crisis. Would that all those<br/>
who love and all those who mistrust free institutions,<br/>
could have seen it also! Would that they could<br/>
have witnessed as I have the majestic calmness<br/>
with which, under circumstances the most perilous<br/>
and exciting, the national decision has been pro-<br/>
nounced. Here is no anarchy, no military dictator-<br/>
ship. In the midst of civil war a civilian is re-elect-<br/>
ed as President by a constitutional process as tran-<br/>
quil as an English Sabbath day. And no king is<br/>
more secure in the allegiance of his subjects than is<br/>
the President in the allegiance of all—even those<br/>
who voted against him—beneath his elective rule.<br/>
I would, too, that the English people could witness<br/>
as I witness the spirit of humanity which returns<br/>
its power over all the passions of civil war, not-<br/>
withstanding the greatest provocations; and the<br/>
absence, which has most forcibly struck me during<br/>
my residence here, of any bloodthirsty sentiment<br/>
or any feeling of malignant hatred towards those<br/>
who are now your antagonists in a civil war, but<br/>
whom, when they shall have submitted to the law,<br/>
you will again eagerly welcome as fellow-citizens,<br/>
and receive into the full communion of the free.<br/>
Many a prejudice, many an error would be dispell-<br/>
ed, many harsh judgment would be cancelled, many<br/>
a bitter word recalled, if only my countrymen<br/>
could behold with their own eyes what I have be-<br/>
held and now behold. I will on this occasion dwell<br/>
on the present state of feeling in England towards<br/>
this country. You know by this time that we are<br/>
not, as a section of our press would represent us to<br/>
be, united in sympathy with your enemies, but that<br/>
in this as on other political questions we are divid-<br/>
ed among ourselves, and that the mass of our peo-<br/>
ple are on your side. Mr. Ward Beecher, who is<br/>
here present, must have sufficiently assured you of<br/>
this fact. But I cannot omit on any occasion, least<br/>
of all on this occasion and in this city, to protest<br/>
that all Englishmen who have any regard for the<br/>
honour of England, or even for her real interest as<br/>
a commercial nation, reprobate and abhor the con-<br/>
duct of those shipbuilders and merchants of Liver-<br/>
pool whose ignoble cupidity, regardless alike of<br/>
public morality and of the welfare of their country,<br/>
has brought the two nations to the verge of a deso-<br/>
lating war. No part of the address which Mr. Jay<br/>
has read finds a more cordial response in my heart,<br/>
or will find a more cordial response in hearts of my<br/>
friends, than that which promises future goodwill<br/>
and peace between England and America. One<br/>
great cause of our transient estrangement has been<br/>
removed, as Mr. Jay has most truly remarked,<br/>
since the slave owner has ceased to fill your councils<br/>
with his tyrannical spirit, and to inflame the animo-<br/>
sity of your people against a nation which with all<br/>
her shortcomings and with all her faults, has been<br/>
the sincere, constant, and active enemy of slavery.<br/>
In the councils of England too - at least in the gen-<br/>
eral sentiment of our nation - a change favourable<br/>
to the continuance of friendly relations with your<br/>
country will not fail to ensue when, the alien born<br/>
of slavery having disappeared, your institutions<br/>
shall stand forth in their true lineaments and na-<br/>
tive character, as the first attempt in the history of<br/>
the world to found a great community on the prin-<br/>
ciples, on which alone a community worthy of the<br/>
name can be founded, of common interest and equal<br/>
right. Your cause, as I said before, is ours; it is<br/>
the cause of the whole human race. That all the<br/>
sacrifices you have made for it may be abundantly<br/>
repaid, that speedy victory may attend your arms,<br/>
that victory may be followed by perfect reconcilia-<br/>
tion and the healing of all the wounds which civil<br/>
war has made, and that you may be guided by the<br/>
spirit of wisdom and of patriotism through the<br/>
work of reconstruction, and all the difficulties and<br/>
problems which remain, is the earnest prayer of<br/>
thousands and tens of thousands of English hearts,<br/>
and of none more than mine."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professor Smith's remarks elicited frequent and<br/>
enthusiastic applause, and were heard throughout<br/>
with the deepest attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROYAL RESIDENCE GRAND PALACE BANGKOK
6th FEBRUARY 1865
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF BANGKOK
RECORDER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was very glad to learn from statement<br/>
in your paper relating to discovery of the<br/>
mineral oil in United States of America,<br/>
the specimen of which I have in my pos-<br/>
sesion from firm of Markswald & Co. here<br/>
some time ago. It in case of cold season<br/>
can be said that it is better than cocoanut<br/>
oil, for it was not becoming thick for pre-<br/>
vailing of cold less than 78° Farenheit. But<br/>
in other case of hot or warm sun in general<br/>
prevailing in Siam, cannot be said as bet-<br/>
ter than Cocoanut oil, as the American oil<br/>
is of strong smell and power of combusti-<br/>
bility or inflammability ; so it may be con-<br/>
sidered as dangerous. Also its flame red<br/>
and producing black smoke for making our<br/>
room unclean, in case of use in lamp with<br/>
glass chimney sometime flaming noise of<br/>
strong flame. For this instance to great<br/>
care ought to be given in its use. So the<br/>
require of the cocoanut oil is yet inevitable<br/>
for our usual lamp.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I shall be glad however to have any per-<br/>
son who may examine our land and point<br/>
out where some mineral oil would be ob-<br/>
tainiable from, either in like manner of the<br/>
American oil or of the usual Burman<br/>
mineral oil. It will be good production<br/>
of our land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think such the consideration and en-<br/>
deavoring is suitable for us who are very<br/>
far from use of telegraph or railway which<br/>
endeavor - no doubt might be liable to be<br/>
favor to thieves, or metalic wires and<br/>
iron bars and long stones &c before use of<br/>
telegraph and railroad. Ah! O! many foreign-<br/>
ers who are endeavoring very often to let<br/>
us be advised and have great expense for<br/>
what we think will be of no use for this<br/>
country of poor and ignorant people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I would be glad to know as soon as<br/>
possible who will assist us to point the<br/>
place for some mineral oil in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I beg to be your good friend.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
S.P.P. Mungkut. R. S.
in 5017th day of reign.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF THE
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In an article in the "Siam Times," the<br/>
writer says, "there is only one step between<br/>
pure Buddhism and Christianity." If the<br/>
writer of that article is but a professing<br/>
Christian, which is but another name for a<br/>
down-right hypocrite, this language is all<br/>
which we might expect from him, but if<br/>
he is a lover of Jesus Christ, his own ex-<br/>
perience will give the lie to his words, and<br/>
his own heart condemns him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Buddh is a dead god, at best a lump of<br/>
inanimate matter, and his followers are<br/>
poor blind deluded mortals, wallowing in<br/>
superstition and sunk in immorality; to<br/>
them the future is shrouded in eternal<br/>
night, without one ray of hope, or they<br/>
look forward to spend it in sensual delight,<br/>
and unhallowed pleasures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the God of the Christian is Jehovah<br/>
of Hosts, the one living and true God, the<br/>
Creator of the universe, and Jesus Christ,<br/>
the sum and centre of the Christian's soul, is ,<br/>
an ever-living, ever-loving God and Saviour,<br/>
whose service is one of love. No barthen-<br/>
some rites or superstitious worship does<br/>
He require of His followers, but the grate-<br/>
ful homage of a broken and contrite heart,<br/>
are in His sight the offering of peerless value,<br/>
"in spirit and in truth," God, our God must<br/>
be worshipped, or not at all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor in the Christian's hopes bounded by<br/>
time, he looks forward with bright antici-<br/>
pations to the future, into the world of<br/>
spirits, in sure and certain hope of spend-<br/>
ing a happy, yea a glorious Eternity, with<br/>
the pure and holy in his Father's house,<br/>
where Jesus dwells enthroned in glory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How immeasurable the distance between<br/>
the two systems, any reflecting mind may<br/>
at once perceive, and any honest heart ac-<br/>
knowledge, that it is not "one step" but<br/>
Eternity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Novice.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MR SANDS STATEMENT
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Finding that there was an likely-hood of<br/>
getting to Bangkok in this way, the Gov-<br/>
ernor ordered the elephants to be got in<br/>
readiness, and on the 28th Dec we took<br/>
our final departure from Champoon, Char-<br/>
les Herring (who was still sick) on one,<br/>
James Maxwell and myself on the other,<br/>
accompanied by a party of Siamese on foot.<br/>
We went as far as Bansuan on that day, and<br/>
put up at a Josh-house for the night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Charles Herring being sick before we<br/>
started, the jotting of the elephant made<br/>
him worse, and being of opinion that he<br/>
could not bear the fatigue of traveling any<br/>
farther, I came to the conclusion to leave<br/>
him behind, but the Siamese officers not<br/>
approving of this, and the man himself<br/>
desiring to proceed, I thought it best to<br/>
take him along with me. Next day the<br/>
29th we had to wait for another elephant<br/>
the officers seeming to think that two were<br/>
not sufficient, that day Charles Herring ap-<br/>
peared much better, and on the 30th we<br/>
resumed our journey and arrived at Pa-<br/>
thieu, one of the officers took me to the<br/>
Governor's house, where I received the<br/>
same kind trearment as at my former visit.<br/>
Finding that C. Herring, was getting worse<br/>
with the consent of the Siamese officials, I<br/>
left him at Pathieu, with the Governor,<br/>
who furnished me before starting, with<br/>
some provisions for the road, in the even-<br/>
ing we rested in a bananna plantation for<br/>
the night . On January 1st 1865 we rested<br/>
on the South bank of the river, which div-<br/>
vides Pathieu from Bankapan. These two<br/>
districts (except about the Governors) ap-<br/>
pear to be one dense forest, yielding large<br/>
quantities of wood oil, many of the trees<br/>
being of immense size. At Bankapan we<br/>
stopped at the Governors, and put up in a<br/>
bamboo-shed, which appears to be intend-<br/>
ed chiefly for travelers. We were detained<br/>
here for two days, and then forwarded on<br/>
carts drawn by buffaloes. About two hours<br/>
after we started we came to a small stream<br/>
where we stopped, and unyoked the Buffa-<br/>
loes, to have a "roll in the gutter." This<br/>
was done two or three times a day, which<br/>
stopped us greatly to our progress. In the<br/>
evening we came to a cleared spot, which<br/>
had been cultivated, marks of the hand of<br/>
man were here visible, the denseness of the<br/>
forest, being relieved by patches of cleared<br/>
land at intervals. We reached Papayla on<br/>
the 6th. Here the country is clear for miles<br/>
around, running waste and uncultivated,<br/>
with but very few inhabitants. On the 7th,<br/>
continuing our journey, we came into a<br/>
mountainous district. Along the mountain<br/>
side the land is well cleared, and apparently<br/>
very fertile, if we may judge by the grass<br/>
growing upon it, which is about five feet<br/>
high. Deer, Junglefowl &c are plentiful<br/>
here. We rested for the night at Cow Leow<br/>
mountains. Our usual custom when we<br/>
could not reach a house, was to sleep under<br/>
the carts, after having set a watch to keep<br/>
the fires burning, which we were oblidged<br/>
to do, there being tigers prowling around us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our mode of cooking was somewhat<br/>
primitive, each being for the time his own<br/>
cook. Upon stopping for the night, which<br/>
always where wood and water could<br/>
be conveniently found, we proceeded to<br/>
erect our [ires. This was done in various<br/>
ways, either by taking two sticks, about six<br/>
or eight inches in diameter, and placing<br/>
them parallel to each other at convenient<br/>
distances, so that our pot would sit be-<br/>
tween, and catch each of them, the fire be-<br/>
ing between them; or we made a hole in<br/>
the ground a little smaller than the pot,<br/>
having one side open to admit the fire-<br/>
wood and air; sometimes three stones<br/>
placed at right angles answered our purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were to the natives of the district<br/>
through which we passed, what Jack terms<br/>
"a perfect curio," as soon as we arrived at<br/>
any place, the inhabitants would all gather<br/>
round staring at us, no matter how tired<br/>
we were, or how much we desired to be<br/>
free from observation, we could not keep<br/>
the natives away, whether we were cooking<br/>
or eating, they were always present, watch-<br/>
ing all our movements, making enquiry<br/>
what kind of food we eat, &c. of the Escort,<br/>
which accompanied us, and upon learning<br/>
the didèrent kinds we used, they would<br/>
sometimes bring us an old fighting cock,<br/>
(one that had been through his degrees in<br/>
the cock pit,) with him we made excellent<br/>
soup Our mode of killing and dressing Mr.<br/>
Rouster, was to them a source of merriment;<br/>
but their greatest wonder was, to find that<br/>
we lived without using beetle nut, this was<br/>
to them a matter of great surprise. This<br/>
evening we rested on the beach at the foot<br/>
of the Hoa-one Mountain. Upon starting<br/>
next morning, our road led round the moun-<br/>
tain, and after traveling all day we did not<br/>
make 4 mités in the right direction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We arrived at Putunap the 10th and<br/>
remained till the 12th. This part of the<br/>
country is very beautiful, being well cleared<br/>
and cultivated in many places. Deer and<br/>
Jungle-fowl are plentiful, we journied and<br/>
passed through Pran, Suchoup, Cham,<br/>
and after various delays we arrived at Petch-<br/>
aburee on the 30th Jan.; but did not see<br/>
the Governor, he having gone down the<br/>
river with His Majesty the Supreme King,<br/>
who was about to return to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Governor returned about 4 P. M.<br/>
when I went and reported myself to him.<br/>
He received me kindly and promised to<br/>
forward the party to Bangkok the follow-<br/>
ing day. The same evening a message was<br/>
sent from His Excellency the Prime Minis-<br/>
ter for me to come to his residence, the<br/>
Governor having informed him of our arri-<br/>
val. I went to his Excellency's who after<br/>
hearing my statement of the loss of the<br/>
Fah Kee, gave orders that we should be<br/>
sent on board of the Steam Yacht Volant,<br/>
then lying at the mouth of the river; and<br/>
next morning we started for Bangkok<br/>
where we arrived at 7 P.M. 21st Jan. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GEORGE E. SANDS
LATE FIRST OFFICER
Schooner Fah Kee
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A note from His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King of Siam, states, that "Klawng Bang<br/>
Huang" is not the name of the canal near<br/>
the mouth of which our office is situated,<br/>
but that "Klawng Bangkok Yai" is the<br/>
proper name. Europeans will please re-<br/>
member this correction.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ODDS AND ENDS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tongues are apt to be unruly, for, as we can’t<br/>
see them, it is impossible to keep a watch on them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Bobby what is steam?" "Boiling water' That's<br/>
right, compare it." "Positive, boil; comparative,<br/>
boiler; superlative, burst."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"There’s two ways of doing it" said Pat to him-<br/>
self, as he stood amused and waiting for a job. "If<br/>
I save two thousand dollars I must lay up a hundred<br/>
a year for twenty years, or I can put away ten dollars<br/>
a year for two hundred years; Now which shall I do :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Sir I will make you feel the arrows of my resent-<br/>
ment." "Ah! Miss, why should I fear your arrows<br/>
when you never had a beau?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"So you wouldn't take me to be twenty!” said a<br/>
rich heiress to an Irish gentleman, while dancing<br/>
the polka. " What would you take me for then ?<br/>
"For better or worse," replied the son of the Emerald<br/>
Isle
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They tell the story of a young lady of temperate<br/>
habits, who was advised by her physician to take ale<br/>
to fatten her up. She bought a quart bottle of the<br/>
article, and drank a tea-spoonful twice a day in a<br/>
tumbler of water, but finding that she was fattening<br/>
too rapidly, reduced the dose one half, and was kept<br/>
within bounds."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Partington is of opinion that Mount Vesuvius<br/>
should take saranparilla to cure itself of eruptions.<br/>
The old lady thinks it has been vomiting so long<br/>
nothing else would stay on its stomach.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is an ill filled mind that is filled with other<br/>
people's thoughts
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_7_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r125">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECEIVING SHIPPING LIST. FEB. 15th 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rda">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVALS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where from</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Feb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Perle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Bosse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Sus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mackey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">313</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kim Thay Rien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Reynaert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">285</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sen Forth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">312</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Anglia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Wilson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">523</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Perle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bosse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Meklong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Minna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Anglia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Wilson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">525</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">84</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chantapoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Mary Ross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Meisner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">556</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Bella Donna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Hammon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Minna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Meklong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_7_2 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r131">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcf">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Anoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">230</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Enzino</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lanckenau</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schroder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">420</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Euphrates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Behmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Roberts</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">198</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Aietorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Five Stars</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliath</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Guan Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ritchen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hauren</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Betaford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">251</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kiem Thay Rhien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynaert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">285</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Koefoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brinrath</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">816</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Carlos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seaman's Bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rothe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Choa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seng Thai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Himon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">403</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">680</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ty Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-15_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
๏ ข่าวมาแต่เมืองนอก
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ดานิเอิล เวร์ศแดเฟลค์, ผู้ อยู่<br/>
เมือง นุยอก, ยัง กำลัง ต่อ กำปั่น กลไฟ<br/>
อยู่ ลำ หนึ่ง, เพื่อ พวก คน ใหญ่ ที่ เรียก ว่า,<br/>
เปซิฟิก ซะตีม แนฟิแกซัน กัมปะนี, ที่ ตั้ง<br/>
อยู่ ณะ เมือง ลิเวอปูล แขวง เมือง อังกฤษ.<br/>
กำปั่น กลไฟ ที่ เขา ยัง กำลัง ต่อ อยู่ นั้น,<br/>
จะ ให้ ชื่อ ว่า เฟเวอริก, จะ แล่น เร็ว กว่า<br/>
กำปั่น ไฟ ทั้ง ปวง ทั่ว โลกย์. โดย ยาว นั้น<br/>
ได้ ๒๐๐ ฟุต, โดย กว้าง ได้ ๓๐ ฟุต, ได้<br/>
ดาศฟ้า ลง ไป นั้น ฦก ได้ ๑๙ ฟุต. เขา ต่อ<br/>
ดว้ย ของ ดี ยิ่ง ที่ สุด, เขา หมาย ว่า จะ ให้<br/>
เปน เรือ กลไฟ สำรับ คน โดยสาร, แก<br/>
บันทุก สิ่ง ของ คว้ย, ที่ จะ เปนอ ย่าง เอก<br/>
ที่ เดียว.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ที่ ใน เมือง อังกฤษ นั้น, เขา ยัง<br/>
กำลัง ต่อ กำปั่น รบ หุ้ม ดว้ย เหล็ก, ๓๖<br/>
ลำ ใหญ่ ๆ, ที่ แล้ว นั้น ก็ หลาย ลำ, เกือบ<br/>
จะ เอา ลง น้ำ อยู่ แล้ว. การ ที่ เขา หุ้ม เหล็ก<br/>
นั้น, เพื่อ ประสงค์ การ เมื่อ กำลัง รบ กัน<br/>
นั้น จะ ไม่ เสีย คว้ย ลูก ปืน ใหญ่ อัน ยิง มา<br/>
ถูก เข้า. แก่ เหล็ก หุ้ม นั้น หนา ได้ ๔ นิ้ว<br/>
บ้าง, ๖ นิ้ว บ้าง.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง เมือง ปิกซมปอคะ, แขวง เมือง<br/>
เปนซิลวเนีย ประเทศ อเมริกัน นั้น, มี ตึก<br/>
ใหญ่ สำรับ ทำ เครื่อง เหล็ก ๔๖ ตึก. ใน<br/>
ตึก ๔๖ นั้น, ไค้ ใช้ เหล็ก ปี ละ ๔๖๐๐๐<br/>
ตอน, คิด เปน น้ำ หนัก ตาม ไทย ได้ ประ<br/>
มาณ ล้าน หาบ. เขา ไค้ เสีย เงิน ค่า จ้าง<br/>
ปี ละ ล้าน เหรียน.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง มี แร่ อย่าง หนึ่ง, ที่ พืง ไค้ รู้<br/>
จัก มา บ้าง ไค้ ประมาณ ๓๐ ปี แล้ว, ที่ เขา<br/>
เรียก ว่า แมกนีเซียม. แต่ ทุก วัน นี้ ได้ รู้<br/>
ลักซณ แร่ นั้น ละเอียด ขึ้น.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ ของ นั้น เมื่อ ถลุง ออก แล้ว, เขา<br/>
เรียก ว่า แมกนีเซียม. ศีมัน เหมือน อย่าง<br/>
ตกั่วเกรียบ, แล้ว เบา เหมือน อย่าง กอ๊ก<br/>
แล ไม่ โสน, ทั้ง เหนียว แล แขง ดว้ย,<br/>
เหมือน อย่าง ไฟไหม้ เหนียว ๆ. เมื่อ จุด ไฟ<br/>
ติด เข้า มี แสง สว่าง กล้า, เหมือน อย่าง<br/>
เหล็ก กล้า ที่ ไห้ม อยู่ ใน ดอก ซีเซ็น, คือ<br/>
สิ่ง หนึ่ง ที่ ประสม อยู่ กับ ไนยโตรเซ็น, เปน<br/>
ศม อากาษ ตาม ธรรมดา นั้น. แก่ แมกนี<br/>
เซียม นั้น, ก็ ไห้ม อยู่ ใน ลม อากาษ ตาม<br/>
ธรรมดา, เหมือน อย่าง ไฟไหม้ สารพัด ไม้<br/>
ทั้ง ปวง. แสง สว่าง ที่ บังเกิด เพราะ แมก<br/>
นีเซียม นั้น, เมื่อ กำลัง ไห้ม อยู่ นั้น, สว่างกล้า<br/>
คล้าย ๆ แสง อาทิตย. แต่ง แห่ง กอ้น<br/>
แมกนีเขียม นั้น, ถ้า จะ จุด ไฟ เข้า ใน<br/>
เพลา กลาง คืน, จะ มี แสง สว่าง ออก ไป<br/>
ไกล ใน ทาง ทะเ ลได้ ประมาณ สอง โยชน์.<br/>
แสง สว่าง นี้   จะใช้การแตน แสง สว่าง<br/>
แห่ง อาทิตย์, เมื่อ ชัก เงา รูป ก็ ได้, เขา<br/>
คิด ว่า จะ ใช้ แมกนีเขียม นั้น แทน ไม้ ใน การ<br/>
ที่ จะ ต่อ กำปั่น ได้, เพราะ มัน เบา กว่า ไม้,<br/>
แล ดี กว่า เหล็ก, เหตุ ว่า มัน ไม่ เปน สนิม<br/>
เลย. ถ้า แล กำปั่น นั้น บังเกิด เพลิง ไห้ม<br/>
ขึ้น, เหน จะ มี แสง สว่าง กล้า นัก.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ ข้าพเจ้า ผู้เขียน หนังสือ นี้, คิด หมาย<br/>
ว่า จะ มี แร่ แมกนีเซียม ที่ เมือง นิวเซอซี,<br/>
ใน ประเทศ อเมริกา นั้น มาก, ภอ ที่ จะ ใช้<br/>
ทำ การ ใหญ่ ๆ ได้. แล ดี เกลือ เทศ นั้น<br/>
ก็ ยัง เกิด ขึ้น แต่ แร่ แมกนีเซียม นั้น ดว้ย.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ไม้ กอ๊ก ที่ เบา นั้น, ที่ พวก อังกฤษ<br/>
ใช้ สำรับ อุด ขวด นั้น, มัน เปน เปลือก<br/>
ไม้, บังเกิด แต่ ไม้ ได้ ไม้ โอก อย่าง หนึ่ง, ที่ มี<br/>
อยู่ ใน ประเทศ ยุรพ ฝ่าย ใต้, คือ เมือง ฝรั่ง<br/>
เศศ, แล เมือง ซะเปน, แล เมือง โปตุเก็ด,<br/>
แล เมือง อิตตาลี. ครั้น ต้นไม้ นั้น โต ขึ้น<br/>
ได้ ประมาณ ๒๖ ปี แล้ว, เปลือก มัน ก็ ภอ<br/>
ควร ที่ จะใช้ ทำ กอ๊ก อุด ขวด ได้. ครั้น<br/>
ล่วง ไป อีก ๘ ปี, ก็ ลอก เปลือก ออก อีก<br/>
ได้. ถ้า แล ประมาณ ได้ ๔ ปี แล้ว, ก็ ลอด<br/>
เปลือก ได้ ทุก ครั้ง. เปลือก นั้น ก็ ยิ่ง ก็ ชิ้น<br/>
ทุก คราว ๆ. คน โบราณ ใน พวก เอเล็น<br/>
แล พวก โรม นั้น, ได้ รู้จัก เปลือก กอ๊ก นั้น,<br/>
เคย ใช้ มา แต่ ก่อน บ้าง. แต่ ครั้ง เมื่อ<br/>
เกิด วิชา ทำ ขวด แก้ว ขึ้น ได้, ใน คฤศศัก<br/>
ราช ๑๕๐๐ ปี, เขา ยัง ไม่ รู้จัก ใช้ เปลือก<br/>
กอ๊ก อุก ขวด ก่อน, ต่อ เมื่อ คฤศศักราช<br/>
ได้ ๑๗๐๐ ปี เศศ. คราว นั้น พวก หมอ<br/>
ที่ เมือง เซอมินี, ได้ เอา เปลือก นั้น มา ใช้<br/>
อุก ขวด ยา ก่อน, เปน เติม ที่ ได้ ใช้ เปลือก<br/>
กอ๊ก เปน เครื่อง อุด ขวด, มา จน ตราบ<br/>
เท่า ทุก วัน นี้ แล.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง มี ข่าว มา แต่ เมือง อมริกัน ว่า,<br/>
เซ็นเนอเร็ล เซอมัน, ฝ่าย เมือง อเมริกัน<br/>
เปน แม่ทัพ ใหญ่, ยก กองทัพ ไป ตี เมือง<br/>
พวก ขบถ ใน ที่ เรียก ว่า ซอเซีย นั้น, ได้ ทำ<br/>
ลาย บ้าน เมือง ใหญ่ ๆ เสีย หลาย แห่ง หลาย<br/>
ตำบล, ฝ่าย พวก ขบถ นั้น ไม่ อาจ จะ ต้าน<br/>
ทาน ได้.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ที่ ภูเขา ใน เมือง มันซะเตอ แขวง<br/>
เมือง ปรอยเซีย นั้น, เขา ฟัง ได้ ภบ แร่<br/>
ตกั่ว นม มี เนื้อ ตกั่ว มาก, ที่ บริเวณ นั้น<br/>
กว้าง ขวาง มาก. เขา ได้ ว่า ตกั่ว นั้น<br/>
ภอ จะ ตอ้ง การใช้ ทั่ว ประเทศ ยุโรบ ตลอต<br/>
ทุก ปี ๆ ไม่ ตอ้ง หา ที่ อื่น.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
