---
linkTitle: 'April 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 1st'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 6
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY APRIL. 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 6</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANGKOK APRIL 1ST.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to the weather we are now<br/>
about in the Superlative degree. We have<br/>
had the hot and hotter, but now it is to be<br/>
hoped we have reached the hottest. Were<br/>
it not for the strong breese we have daily<br/>
from the S. S. W. it would be oppressively<br/>
hot. The nights too are not such so to<br/>
invite sleep. We connot fully agree with<br/>
the Editor of the Bangkok Calender that<br/>
the nights during this hot season are not<br/>
"particularly uncomfortable to foreiginers"<br/>
Of course much depends upon having large<br/>
and well ventilated sleeping appointments,<br/>
but consummptives are not the only ones<br/>
subject to "night sweats" in Siam during<br/>
this season of the year. And although one<br/>
may have slept soundly through the night<br/>
he often rises in the morning wet with<br/>
perspiration and feeling as languid as if he<br/>
had not closed an eye. We are however<br/>
approaching another season to which we<br/>
are all looking with more anxiety perhaps<br/>
than we have ever done before. In the course<br/>
of the next month we may expect some of<br/>
those copious refreshing showers which will<br/>
add new life and verdure even to this land<br/>
of perpetual bloom. In the fields where<br/>
the moisture from the river and canals does<br/>
not reach, every thing is burned up. The<br/>
fields are now appeorely more destitute of<br/>
any thing to nourish animal life than those<br/>
of more northern latitudes are when just<br/>
emerging from beneath a deep covering of<br/>
snow. It has been predicted by His Ma-<br/>
jesty that we are to have another dry sea-<br/>
son, and by others that there are to be three<br/>
in succession. Of course such predictions<br/>
are nothing either way, but all such things<br/>
tend to make us look with more anxiety<br/>
to the commencement of the rains, which<br/>
if they come in their usual quantity are<br/>
to insure good crops, remove the em-<br/>
bargo, and restore the usual business activity<br/>
We should have had two or three showers<br/>
about the middle of February which the<br/>
natives consider indispensable to a good<br/>
crop of mango, but these, excepting a mere<br/>
sprinkling scarcely sufficient to lay the dust,<br/>
have failed. We should have had some<br/>
smart showers also about the vernal equinox,<br/>
but that time is also about past and there<br/>
is as yet but little appearance of the showers.<br/>
There has however been a little thunder<br/>
which cooled the air for the time, and<br/>
the atmosphere is becoming a little hazy.<br/>
It is useless to speculate in regard to the<br/>
future but it would require no vivid imagi-<br/>
nation to picture the results of another such<br/>
a season as the last upon the business affairs<br/>
of most of the Europeans here. Hope<br/>
however is the "anchor of the soul" in<br/>
temporal as well as spiritual affairs. We shall<br/>
therefore look for nothing else than when<br/>
the proper time comes to see the refreshing<br/>
showers descend and the land again blessed<br/>
with abundant crops.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF THE BANGKOK
RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—-You may consider it some what<br/>
personal, but I am inclined to bring an in-<br/>
dictment against the whole fraternity of<br/>
Editors and Reporters as public nuisances.<br/>
They may be a class of necessary nuisances<br/>
which we cannot well dispense with, but<br/>
nuisances nevertheless, I insist they often<br/>
are which should be abated if not suppressed.<br/>
They live by preying on the public, and<br/>
are, really dangerous to the peace of individ-<br/>
uals, if not the community. They are<br/>
continually spersing about in search of<br/>
paragraphs or item or jottings, in short<br/>
any thing in their line, till their presence<br/>
even makes a modest man nervous. If you<br/>
find one of the craft observing you closely,<br/>
you may be sure he is mentally taking your<br/>
measure for a paragraph. Open your lips<br/>
to speak in his presence and he is im-<br/>
mediately at his jottings. You enter upon<br/>
some business speculation for your private<br/>
benefit, and which you wish to keep quiet<br/>
and you have scarce decided upon your<br/>
movements before you find the Editor has<br/>
mined out the whole affair, and in leaded<br/>
lines blazoned it to the public. A com-<br/>
pany of friends sit down cozily to a quiet<br/>
dinner at their Hotel, and behold there is<br/>
the Editor or Reporter peering out of some<br/>
obscure corner, pencil in hand jotting down<br/>
the names of the company, the toasts drunk<br/>
and the speeches made, and in next issue<br/>
flashes the post-prandial wit and wisdom<br/>
of the entire party for the benefit of the<br/>
public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man can scarcely leave his home,<br/>
certainly not the town, without being pick-<br/>
ed up by an editor and set down among his<br/>
items. All this is done, 'tis true in the<br/>
most polite and complimentary manner<br/>
possible. Each in his turn who is dis-<br/>
tinguished by our Editor's notice, is the<br/>
most intelligent, the most eloquent, the<br/>
most enterprising, the most gentlemanly,<br/>
and the most benevolent of men. Doubt-<br/>
less the subjects, of these unsolicited, un-<br/>
paid and most flattering personal advertise-<br/>
ments ought to be most grateful. But<br/>
their sense of obligation is lessened by the<br/>
thought, that these complimentary notices<br/>
are part of the Editors stock in trade, the<br/>
very convenient small change with which<br/>
he satisfies the demands of his creditor<br/>
the public. He seems to take it for grant-<br/>
ed, that every man is delighted to find<br/>
himself in print. But he should know<br/>
there are some persons who have no wish<br/>
to be spitted and turned, and basted, and<br/>
roasted before the fire of public criticism<br/>
though it be on the toasting fork of an<br/>
Editor. If one could choose the print in<br/>
which he is to appear, or have it chosen for<br/>
him by some considerate loving friend, it<br/>
might be endurable and sometimes even<br/>
grateful. I would not object to find myself<br/>
in print of the kind and under the circum-<br/>
stances, indicated in the following anecdote,<br/>
which a gentleman formerly in the India<br/>
civil service tells of his own personal ex-<br/>
perience.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The date of my first being in print," he<br/>
says "is so far back that I cannot recall<br/>
the circumstances vividly to mind. I have<br/>
however dim visions of a brave manly face<br/>
looking down smilingly into mine, and of<br/>
its owner handing me a small packet, which<br/>
I eagerly opened—Oh how great my joy,<br/>
how deep my gratification, my youthful<br/>
ambition was gratified. I was in print.<br/>
Each of these square peices was a repre-<br/>
sentation of myself. Never did I estimate<br/>
so highly, or appreciate so fully my own<br/>
worth, as after for the first time, seeing<br/>
myself in print.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After many years of labor, and trial, of<br/>
joy and sorrow, years whose vicissitudes<br/>
had chastened my youthful ambition, and<br/>
greatly modified and matured my ideas, I<br/>
once again found myself in print. I felt<br/>
loving arms around me and saw the happy<br/>
face of my wife, who insisted upon com-<br/>
pletely infolding me in print, and I was<br/>
soon sitting by the fire in a cozy chamber<br/>
wrapped up to the chin in it. It was print<br/>
which the good taste of my wife had select-<br/>
ed, and her willing hands had arranged for<br/>
my comfort. Appreciating my ideas on<br/>
print, she pointed to the pattern with which<br/>
she had surrounded me, and smiling said<br/>
"it will stand the Bhutty, my dear." The<br/>
print was indeed of the best material and a<br/>
beautiful pattern; the ground clear and def-<br/>
inite, the design elegant and pure, the<br/>
colours marked and distinct, though simple<br/>
and delicate. Greatly admiring its chaste<br/>
beauty I responded gratefully to my wife<br/>
that I was sure it would stand every Bhutty<br/>
in India, and I wished all who desired to be<br/>
in print would be equally careful to have<br/>
their colours definite, true and enduring."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now if the Editors who insist upon<br/>
thrusting us into print, would give us<br/>
colours not showy, indefinite, and fading;<br/>
but chaste, pure, clear and lasting - print<br/>
that will stand the Bhutty, we shall have<br/>
less reason to complain. But there is no<br/>
pleasure in finding yourself in a print with<br/>
the pattern indefinite, and the colours so<br/>
running into each other, that it appears at<br/>
the same time to be "running with the hare<br/>
and holding with the hounds."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours &c.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PARIS, ITS ENVIRONS AND ITS
HISTORICAL SCENES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our object in this and in other articles<br/>
that may follow, is to describe the more re-<br/>
markable edifices and places in the French<br/>
Capital, in association with some of the<br/>
great events of which that city has been the<br/>
theatre. Paris has unquestionably many<br/>
other features of commanding interest—as<br/>
its arts, its convents, and its Municipal<br/>
arrangements; but these are incessantly<br/>
varying in their expression.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Its historical scenes are permanent and<br/>
indelible, and are to be traced not in monu-<br/>
ments, and inscriptions, but in the multi-<br/>
farious narrations of chronicles and me-<br/>
moirs—in the obscure records of the middle<br/>
ages, and in the pamphlets of yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The barricades of the League, and the<br/>
three days of 1830, are equally within the<br/>
range of our subject. But such a mode of<br/>
tracing History has of course no pretens-<br/>
ions to be systematic. They must only<br/>
be viewed as the succession of sketches held<br/>
together by the thread of local recollections.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The merit whatever it be of these frag-<br/>
ments will consist of their fidelity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Tuileries.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Palaces of European Capitals are<br/>
generally the richest of public edifices in<br/>
historical associations, and we therefore pro-<br/>
pose to direct our reader's attention in this<br/>
number to the Tuileries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vast structure has indeed no tradi-<br/>
tions of ancient feudal tyranny and mag-<br/>
nificence. It is of comparatively modern<br/>
date, and points to the bold and profligate<br/>
Mary de Medici its founder, and leads us<br/>
on to the times of Louis XIV when one<br/>
absolute man, presiding over the destinies<br/>
of millions, had the arrogance to proclaim<br/>
"L'etat C'est moi" I am the State.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a long interval, when is splenders<br/>
were eclipsed in the greater glories of Ver-<br/>
sailles, it tells a sorrowful tale of a captive<br/>
monarch here suffering every indignity, as<br/>
the retribution of the detestable pride of his<br/>
ancestors. It conducts us onward to the<br/>
furious anarchy which succeeded the weak<br/>
despotism of that unhappy king, and thence<br/>
to the more startling, vigorous, and splendid<br/>
tyranny of a military usurper, whose generals<br/>
were as machines; to such terrible military<br/>
discipline had he reduced the finest human<br/>
metal of that celebrated time. And when the<br/>
measure of justice was once more full, the<br/>
place of the giddy conqueror was again<br/>
supplied by the exiled race. But they had<br/>
learned nothing and forgotten nothing in<br/>
adversity; and were soon again displaced,<br/>
and at this moment the flag of a more rig-<br/>
orous tyranny than ever waves over its roof.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Place du Carrousel is an immense<br/>
square in front of the Tuileries, which de-<br/>
rives its name from one of those pageants,<br/>
which in connection with his architecture<br/>
and his wars so pampered the vanity of<br/>
Louis XIV while his people starved. The<br/>
festival which that proud king here gave to<br/>
his court in 1662 was called the carrousel.<br/>
It cost about £50,000 sterling, and has left<br/>
no trace of the admiration which it gained<br/>
or ill will which it excited, if we except<br/>
the verses of a satiracal poet which are still<br/>
remembered.   *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The East front of the Palace occupies<br/>
the vast extent of 1011 feet. Its five heavy<br/>
and incongruous pavilions each in itself an<br/>
immense house, are connected by four rang-<br/>
es of lower buildings in the same line.<br/>
This front constitutes the Tuileries. On the<br/>
South is the gallery of the Louvre—on the<br/>
North, is a similar gallery, not yet completed<br/>
running parallel to the Rue de Rivoli. The<br/>
new gallery is a monument of the taste of<br/>
Napoleon, and of the dangers which sur-<br/>
rounded him in his ascent to Sovereign<br/>
power. It is built partly on the site of<br/>
forty or fifty old houses that were greatly<br/>
damaged by the explosion of the Infernal<br/>
Machine which was aimed at the life of the<br/>
First Consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
* Exquises Historiques 4.247 P.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Palace is separated from the Place<br/>
du Carrousel in its whole extent by a high<br/>
railing or "grille" terminated at each side<br/>
by a gate, whose piers bear colossal marble<br/>
statues. Opposite the central Pavilion is<br/>
the triumphal arch which Napoleon erected<br/>
in 1809 to the glory of the French army.<br/>
It is an imitation of the arch of Septimius<br/>
Severus at Rome rich in detail but paltry<br/>
in its general effect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The monuments of Paris are constantly<br/>
changing their aspect with the changes of<br/>
Politics. The arch of Napoleon has indeed<br/>
the figure he placed there of Cuirrassiers<br/>
and Grenadiers and Chasseurs and Can-<br/>
noniers whose costumes accord but ill with<br/>
the classic monument which they surmount.<br/>
But the bas-reliets which represent the<br/>
victories of Ulm and Austerlitz, have given<br/>
place to sculptures of the paltry triumphs<br/>
of Duc d’Angoulleme in Spain, and the<br/>
bronze horses of St Mark which have been<br/>
successively yoked to the car of the con-<br/>
queror at Corinth and Rome, Byzantium<br/>
and Venice, and Paris—have given place to<br/>
four horses in bronze by Bosio after the<br/>
models removed, and equal to them in the<br/>
beauty of their forms and expression of<br/>
their attitudes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would be difficult to imagine a more<br/>
severe satire than this upon royal and nation-<br/>
al self-deception. The Government of<br/>
Louis Philippe has restored again the troph-<br/>
ies of the honor of the French arms under<br/>
Napoleon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ground, or at least a part of it, on<br/>
which the Palace of the Tuileries now<br/>
stands, was in the 14th Century called La<br/>
Sablonniere of the sand pits. It was pro-<br/>
bably towards the end of this century, or<br/>
the beginning of the following, that the<br/>
tile works were first established, from which<br/>
the Palace derives its present name. In the<br/>
beginning of the 16th century Nicolas de<br/>
Neuville Baron de Villeur, who was the<br/>
secretary of finances, had a house and gar-<br/>
den close to these tile works, from which it<br/>
was commonly called the Hotel des Tuil-<br/>
eries. This property the king, Francis 1st<br/>
purchased in 1518 from de Neuville, and<br/>
gave it to his mother Louisa of Sayvoy who<br/>
complained of the unhealthy situation of<br/>
the Palace des Tournelles (now Place<br/>
Royal ) where she had hitherto resided.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Louisa therefore was the first royal per-<br/>
sonage who lived at the Tuileries, which<br/>
she did from this time till the year 1525<br/>
when on her second appointment to the<br/>
regency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the capture of her son at the dis-<br/>
tructive battle of Pavia she gave the house<br/>
to John Tiercelin, Master of the household<br/>
to the Dauphin, and to Julia Dutrot his wife<br/>
to be occupied it through their lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the death of these parties the proper-<br/>
ty reverted to the Crown in whose posses-<br/>
sion it was in 1564, when Charles IX or-,<br/>
dered the Palais des Tournelles to be de-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
moblished in consequence of his father Henry<br/>
II having died there in 1559, after being<br/>
wounded in a tournament by the Count de<br/>
Montgomery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since this event the Palais des Tournelles<br/>
had been considered as belonging to the<br/>
Queen Mother, Catharine de Medicis, al-<br/>
though it remained uninhabited, that Prin-<br/>
cess having continued to reside in the<br/>
Louvre.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But now when it was about to be des-<br/>
troyed, 'twas considered necessary that she<br/>
should be provided with another Palais of<br/>
her own; and she resolved to build a new<br/>
one for herself on the site of the Hotel des<br/>
Tuileries. The foundation of the new Pa-<br/>
lace was laid in the month of May 1564 and<br/>
was intended to be an edifice much more<br/>
extended even than the present Palace.<br/>
Only a small part of the original plan was<br/>
executed by Catharine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The central pavilion at first consisted<br/>
only of two stories and it was surmounted<br/>
not as now by a quadrangular roof, but by<br/>
a large circular dome.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The garden which was seperated from<br/>
the Palace by a street was surrounded by<br/>
a wall, having a bastion on the outside of<br/>
that portion contiguous to the river.  *<br/>
The architects whom Catharine de Medicis<br/>
employed to construct her new palace, were<br/>
Philbert Delorme, and John Bullant, both<br/>
educated in Italy, and unrivalled in their<br/>
profession in that age. Delorme however<br/>
who is understood to have had the great<br/>
share in the work, has left it on record that<br/>
Catharine herself was in fact the principle<br/>
architect, and that all he can claim the<br/>
credit of, is the decoration of the edifice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
However this may be, Catharine was so<br/>
well pleased with her architect, that even,<br/>
though he was not yet an ecclesiastic, she<br/>
bestowed upon him two Abbeys, and pro-<br/>
cured for him besides, the offices of Coun-<br/>
seller and Almoner to the king. On the<br/>
completion of the Tuileries, he was also<br/>
made governor of that Palace. All which<br/>
honors are said to have made him not a<br/>
little vain, as well as to have excited the<br/>
jealousy of another court favorite of the<br/>
day. The celebrated poet Ronsaid who vent-<br/>
ed his spite against his rival in a satirical<br/>
effusion to which he gave the title of "La<br/>
turelle Crossei" the trowel turned Croiser.<br/>
On this, Delorme, availing himself of what<br/>
he held to be the rights of his office, when<br/>
Ronsaid presented himself at the gate of<br/>
the palace garden in the train of his Royal<br/>
Mistress, refused to allow him to enter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The poet, and the well endowed, but not<br/>
very erudite churchman continued an un-<br/>
equal contest of wit on the one side and<br/>
violence on the other; till the Queen put a<br/>
stop to it, by reprimanding the Governor of<br/>
the Palace for shutting the gate upon the<br/>
Poet, and informed him that the Tuileries<br/>
was an abode dedicated to the Muses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
* See Dulaure 192, 257 & 261 P.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a communication from His Majesty<br/>
the Supreme King of Siam, in the Recorder<br/>
of Feb. 15th, we find the following remark-<br/>
able sentence, "Ah! O! many foreigners<br/>
who are endeavoring very often to let us be<br/>
advised and have great expence for what we<br/>
think would be of no use for this country<br/>
of poor ignorant people."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The latter part of this sentence contains<br/>
a remarkable admission, and if the author<br/>
meant it in sincerity, and not in irony, we<br/>
think it one of the most favorable admis-<br/>
sions for Siam we have any where seen.<br/>
We take it for granted therefore that it was<br/>
uttered in sincerity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a teacher of religion finds a person<br/>
who has advanced so far, as to know, and<br/>
feel that he is a sinner, and that he can do<br/>
nothing to save himself, it is considered a<br/>
very favorable circumstance, for then there<br/>
is hope of his accepting the only means of<br/>
salvation. When a school teacher so finds<br/>
a pupil who knows that he is ignorant and<br/>
needs education, the teacher is very much<br/>
encouraged for then, he feels that he can<br/>
fill him with sound and useful knowledge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But when a pupil comes who thinks he<br/>
knows every thing that is worth knowing<br/>
already, the first business of the teacher is<br/>
to pump all the self-conceit out of him, be<br/>
fore he attempts to teach him any thing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When therefore we hear a monarch ac-<br/>
knowledging that his people are "poor and<br/>
ignorant" it appears that he is already in a<br/>
condition to accept any suggestion which<br/>
would tend to the diffusion of general intel-<br/>
legence among his people, and place them<br/>
on the sure road to wealth and happiness.<br/>
This humble acknowledgement therefore, we<br/>
take to be one of the most favorable circum-<br/>
stances for improvement we have yet no-<br/>
ticed, and on the strength of it we shall<br/>
venture to make a few simple suggestions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been complained however that<br/>
Europeans are too forward in urging the<br/>
Siamese and other Oriental nations to adopt<br/>
their customs, and this is no doubt to some<br/>
extent true. To attempt to introduce<br/>
European customs as a whole into Siam, or<br/>
any other eastern nation would neither be<br/>
wise nor desirable, but it is to be regretted<br/>
however that as a general thing it is the<br/>
vices, and not the virtues of Europeans that<br/>
such nations as Siam are most forward to<br/>
imitate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would not attempt to change a<br/>
single simple, harmless custom, of this peo-<br/>
ple, or do any thing which would at all in-<br/>
terfere with their distinct nationality. The<br/>
tuft of hair upon the top of their heads, we<br/>
would leave them to wear to their hearts con-<br/>
tent. Even the pa-nung although scarcely<br/>
sufficient to modestly protect the body from<br/>
exposure we would not change. If accom-<br/>
panied by a neat jacket, a suitable cos-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tame for the climate and we would not in-<br/>
terfere with it. The betel chewing and its<br/>
accompaniments we would gladly see aban-<br/>
doned on account of the filthy tendencies.<br/>
The Siamese pride themselves in not being<br/>
so filthy as the Cambodians, Peganas, or<br/>
even the Chinese. But in this respect they<br/>
have great room to improve and their most<br/>
filthy practice in common with most of the<br/>
others is betel chewing. Their clothes,<br/>
houses, and in short every thing with which<br/>
they come in contact, is daubed with red<br/>
saliva. This is a practice however, which<br/>
aside from its filthiness is no positive evil,<br/>
and its abandonment must be effected by<br/>
degrees. But this is rather a digression<br/>
from our subject. It is acknowledged by<br/>
very high authority that this people are ig-<br/>
norant to a great extent, and it requires<br/>
but a short sojourn among them to verify<br/>
the fact. Now in order that any people<br/>
may be prosperous and happy they must<br/>
be intelligent. It is the duty therefore of<br/>
those in authority, to try to diffuse as far as<br/>
possible general intelligence among the<br/>
people. Here again the plea of poverty<br/>
may be raised, but in this case it cannot be<br/>
received. It has been the object of most<br/>
sovereigns and kings to try to do something<br/>
which would perpetuate their fame. Some<br/>
have carried the arms of conquest into the<br/>
dominions of others and have thus secured<br/>
a kind of immortal fame: but oftentimes<br/>
such persons are remembered longer on ac-<br/>
count of their acts of cruelty than from any<br/>
thing else. Others have attempted to erect<br/>
monuments of brick, and stone, which<br/>
would hand down their names to posterity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It must have taken years of toil, and<br/>
millions of money to erect those vast py-<br/>
ramids of Egypt. They still remain won-<br/>
ders, and attract travellers from different<br/>
parts of the world but they never were of<br/>
any benefit to the country, and it is not<br/>
now even known by whom they were<br/>
erected, and the religion which they were<br/>
intended in part to perpetuate, is lost for-<br/>
ever. It is not now known by whom Ong-<br/>
cor in Cambodia was built, although the<br/>
ruins indicate it to be but little over two<br/>
thousand years old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing along a canal not long since in<br/>
the rear of the palace of His Majesty the<br/>
Supreme King, we saw the ruins of an old<br/>
pagoda, which had been commenced by<br/>
some one in a former reign, and for some<br/>
reason or other abandoned. It was an<br/>
attempt at an immense structure, the base<br/>
at a rough guess covering an area of at<br/>
bout two acres. How long a time it is<br/>
since these ruins were built we don’t know,<br/>
but to our astonishment, we saw men ac-<br/>
tually at work upon them, piling brick<br/>
upon brick striving to raise them up a little<br/>
nearer to the sky. We could not refrain<br/>
from asking ourself the question why this<br/>
stupendous undertaking was attempted,<br/>
and what benefit it will be to the country?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will neither be useful nor ornamental.<br/>
We then thought that if part of the money<br/>
thus uselessly spent was applied to the<br/>
erection of a nice observatory and the pur-<br/>
chasing of a telescope, to teach his people<br/>
the principles of Astronomy how much<br/>
more appropriate it would be.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not that we presume to say that His<br/>
Majesty is ignorant of Astronomy, for we<br/>
all know that he has made commendable<br/>
progress in that branch, and many others<br/>
of the useful sciences, but as a general thing<br/>
the true principles of Astronomy are un-<br/>
known in Siam. To meet the wants of<br/>
the country, schools must be established,<br/>
and school books, and scientific works<br/>
translated into the language of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is useless to think of giving the youth<br/>
of the country any adequate knowledge<br/>
of these branches through the medium of<br/>
the English language. It is well to try to<br/>
give some of the princes and nobles some<br/>
knowledge of the English language, and<br/>
the employing instruction for that purpose<br/>
is commendable, but after a tolerably fair<br/>
experiment we find no one, who has not<br/>
been out of the country, who has advanced<br/>
farther in the English than to be able to<br/>
carry on a simple conversation, or transact<br/>
a little business.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It may be argued on the other hand that<br/>
foreigners seldom master the Siamese,<br/>
which is true. Those who are considered<br/>
best in the language are frequently found<br/>
making ridiculous mistakes. It is at best<br/>
with them but an acquired tongue. But<br/>
most of those who come here and make it<br/>
their special study, acquire it sufficiently<br/>
well to translate works from other languages<br/>
into it with accuracy. School houses too<br/>
are needed, built on the modern style and<br/>
well ventilated, not dungeons. If therefore<br/>
a monarch wishes to gain an everlasting<br/>
renown, he must try to do something for<br/>
the people, something to dispel their igno-<br/>
rance, something to make them permanent-<br/>
ly happy, he would than live in the hearts<br/>
of his people, and his name would be hand-<br/>
ed down from parent to child until the<br/>
most remote generations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such monuments would be more endur-<br/>
ing than those of brick and mortar. But<br/>
more anon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Utilitas
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE OFFICE PICTURE OF THE GREAT
CYCLONE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government of Bengal has published in the<br/>
Gazette of India, a "special narrative" of the great<br/>
cyclone of 5th October last, signed by the Hon. A.<br/>
Eden, Secretary. Though most of the information<br/>
has already appeared, this Narrative gathers all the<br/>
facts together, states them with official authority<br/>
and accuracy, and so presents a picture far more<br/>
appalling than any which has yet been drawn. We<br/>
proceed to condense the narrative into a readable<br/>
form.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The Cyclone and its Effects.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gale had its origin somewhere about the<br/>
Andaman Islands. "Travelling from that point at<br/>
first in a westerly direction, and inclining afterwards
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
                                                             UTILITAS<br/>
to the north, it first struck the Coast of Bengal about<br/>
the Balasore Roads and Hidgelee. Here, during the<br/>
night of the 4th, it raged with great violence, and<br/>
from this point the centre of the storm appears to<br/>
have traveled in a northerly direction with a slight<br/>
inclination eastward along the right bank of the<br/>
Hooghly, at a pace varying from eight to twenty-<br/>
six miles an hour. The full violence of the storm<br/>
was felt at Calcutta from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. of the 5th<br/>
October, and about seven hours later at Kishnaghur.<br/>
The direction of the storm remained the same<br/>
throughout the greater portion of its course. It<br/>
crossed the Ganges between Rampore Besuleath and<br/>
Pubna, sweeping over the whole length of the Bog-<br/>
rah District, and only taking a recurvature to the<br/>
eastward when it had reached the degrees of 25° north,<br/>
after which it became expended in the Garrow Hills."<br/>
The gale drove in front of it up the line of the<br/>
Hooghly, a Storm Wave from the Bay of Bengal.<br/>
As this rose in some cases as high as 80 feet, and<br/>
swept "over the strongest embankments, flooding<br/>
the crops with salt water, and carrying away entire<br/>
villages, it was very much more disastrous in its<br/>
effects than the mere violence of the wind." The<br/>
city of Calcutta suffered chiefly in its Northern or<br/>
native division. A "tolerably accurate" return<br/>
shews that in the city and its suburbs 2 Europeans<br/>
were killed and 1 wounded, 47 natives were killed<br/>
and 15 wounded, 112 masonry houses destroyed and<br/>
563 damaged, 40,698 tiled and straw huts were des-<br/>
troyed and 4,794 damaged. But the greatest des-<br/>
truction was done to the shipping in the River<br/>
Hooghly. "There were, on the morning of the 5th,<br/>
193 vessels within the limits of the Port. As long<br/>
as they had only to contend against the violence of<br/>
the wind, or up till about 1 o'clock in the day, they<br/>
rode out without much damage, but when to this<br/>
was added the wave, the force of which was still not<br/>
entirely expended, one vessel after another drove<br/>
from her moorings, and as each ship was swept on,<br/>
she fouled others in her course, and they carrying<br/>
others with them, getting massed in hopeless and<br/>
inextricable confusion, were driven in heaps on the<br/>
opposite shore. It appears that 145 vessels were<br/>
driven on shore, and that ten were sunk in the river.<br/>
Of these the Gobindpore, a magnificent new ship of<br/>
1,200 tons, capsized and sunk off the Custom House;<br/>
the crew were saved by the gallantry of a sailor<br/>
name Cleary, who swam off to the wreck with a line,<br/>
by means of which all got safe to shore. The ship<br/>
Ally had left the Port the previous day and met the<br/>
gale a little below Diamond Harbour. She had on<br/>
board 835 Coolie Emigrants for the Mauritius, and<br/>
went down with all on board save seventy of the crew<br/>
and twenty-two of the Emigrants." Of the 195 ships<br/>
39 were damaged slightly, 97 severely and 88 totally<br/>
lost. Only 23 altogether escaped. By 19th October;<br/>
a fortnight after the gale, 101 grounded vessels had<br/>
been got off. "The Burmah Mail and Passenger<br/>
Steamer Persia foundered off the Sandheads with<br/>
the loss of all on board except two of the crew.<br/>
The Hospital Ship Bentinck, which was at anchor<br/>
near Diamond Harbour, was swept away by the<br/>
wave and carried on to the top of the Diamond<br/>
Harbour embankment." Six tug steamers were lost.<br/>
The P. and O. Co.'s hulk Hindostan was sunk and<br/>
the mail steamer Bengal stranded on the bank,<br/>
though she has now been floated. "Of the moorings<br/>
in Port, there were 210 acts lost and only 60 saved."<br/>
Out of Calcutta the districts which suffered most<br/>
were those of Midnapore, and the south and west<br/>
parts of the county known as the 24 Pergunnahe in<br/>
which Calcutta is situated. In the former the police<br/>
returns state the loss of life at 20,665, but in the<br/>
track from Kedgeree to Kookrahuttee, three fourths<br/>
of the whole population cattle and other property<br/>
may be said to have perished. "The height of the<br/>
storm wave varied very much. On the southern<br/>
coast, actually exposed to the sea the storm wave<br/>
nowhere attained any extraordinary height and did<br/>
not any noticeable extent breach the sea face of the<br/>
great Dyke of Hidgelee, which extends from the<br/>
Subornorekha to the western bank of the Russool-<br/>
pore River. As, however, it struck the western<br/>
coast forcing itself up the channel of the Hooghly,<br/>
its height became greater and its violence more<br/>
destructive." Where the water drained off at once<br/>
the crops were not injured. "The loss of cattle in this<br/>
district is computed to be not less than 40,000 head.<br/>
The number of houses destroyed cannot be estim-<br/>
ated; but at Tumlook, (which, though exposed to<br/>
the full severity of the gale, was less severely visited<br/>
than places down the river by the storm wave,) it<br/>
is stated that out of 1,400 houses, only 27 remained<br/>
standing. The loss of Government salt and the<br/>
damage done to Government buildings" was great.<br/>
In the 24-Pergunnahs "the storm wave, commencing<br/>
at Sauger Island, swept over the embankments,<br/>
destroying huts and villages within a distance of<br/>
eight miles from the river, and ceased not in its<br/>
work of destruction till it reached Atcheepore. San-<br/>
gor Island suffered perhaps more extensively, and<br/>
the destruction there was more complete than in any<br/>
other portion of the tract visited by the storm wave.<br/>
Striking it at once on its western and on its south-<br/>
ern face, the wave carried away the embankments,<br/>
utterly destroyed all the houses, huts, golahs, and<br/>
buildings, and left scarcely any living creature on<br/>
the island. The few human beings that escaped<br/>
were saved either by climbing up trees or by float-<br/>
ing on the roofs of their house, which the wave<br/>
swept on to the mainland and carried inland many<br/>
miles. At first it was reported that 90 per cent. of<br/>
the population had perished, but it is found that out<br/>
of a population of nearly 6,000 souls, there is still a<br/>
remnant left of 1,488. The cattle destroyed in the<br/>
flood were 7,000, and the houses 3,563. The storm<br/>
wave at Saugor Island was fifteen feet above the<br/>
level of the land, and it appears to have cut a<br/>
channel straight across the island dividing it into<br/>
two halves."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The police estimate the total loss of life at 12,000,<br/>
but the Rev. Mr. Payne of the London Missionary<br/>
Society, who distributed relief there, calculates "that<br/>
in all villages within one mile of the river, the loss<br/>
of life was 80 per cent., and in other villages within<br/>
the area over which the destruction of the storm<br/>
wave extended, the loss was from 30 to 40 per cent.<br/>
The loss in cattle is estimated at 80 per cent. The<br/>
distress and suffering to which the survivors were<br/>
exposed after the disaster was very great. For se-<br/>
veral days it was impossible for them to obtain food;<br/>
the local stores had been swept away, and for three<br/>
or four days there were no means of sending relief<br/>
from Calcutta. In some places they were known to<br/>
be eating a kind of grass, and at a few places where<br/>
the storm wave had not extended in all its violence,<br/>
they broke open and plundered the stores of the rice<br/>
merchants who refused to distribute or (it is alleg-i<br/>
ed) to sell their grain." At Diamond Harbour the<br/>
water rose 14 feet. The District Superintendent of<br/>
Police says, "that within six miles of Diamond Har-<br/>
bour it is impossible to go fifty yards on the road<br/>
without seeing a human body." These are evidently<br/>
the corpses of individuals who were overtaken by<br/>
the storm and the flood on the road. What the loss<br/>
of life must have been in the villages may be ima-<br/>
gined. In some villages every house has been swept<br/>
away with almost all the inhabitants.” And he<br/>
draws this picture. Two days after the storm about<br/>
a thousand men began to plunder the Salt golaka of<br/>
Mr. Hugh Fraser at Diamond Harbour. They had<br/>
had no food for two days and wished the salt to mix<br/>
with a kind of grass which they ate eagerly. Some<br/>
ten constables who attempted to stop them were<br/>
beaten off. The “fearful hardships of the two past<br/>
days had almost driven the survivors mad. Even if<br/>
a larger party of Police had been there, it is difficult<br/>
to know how they could well have used more force<br/>
towards men under such circumstances; and though<br/>
the unfortunate people can scarcely be blamed, it<br/>
is impossible not to sympathise with Mr. Fraser,<br/>
who has been a very heavy sufferer.” There was<br/>
as great a want of fresh water as of food.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Turning to the country up the Hooghly from<br/>
Calcutta, we find that in the Howrah district op-<br/>
posite, 1,978 persons are reported as having been<br/>
killed or drowned; there were 12,752 cattle killed,<br/>
and 816 masonry and 150,158 mud houses destroyed.<br/>
The value of the property lost is fixed at £604,983.<br/>
All this district up to Hooghly is the kitchen garden<br/>
of Bengal and supplies the army with potatoes.<br/>
The damage done to the crops, chiefly by salt water,<br/>
is "very great." The authorities of Serampore and<br/>
Hooghly underestimate the loss of life at 112 and do,<br/>
not attempt to value the property destroyed, but an<br/>
inspection of the district which is the most populous<br/>
in India, and of its large towns, convinces us that<br/>
the loss is relatively equal to that in Howrah. At<br/>
Burdwan the loss was slight, but all over the rich<br/>
Indigo districts of Nuddea, Rajshye, and Bogruh<br/>
the damage done by the gale was "very great."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Measures of Relief.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Government, though the local officers, did much.<br/>
"As soon as reliable information was obtained by<br/>
the Magistrate of the 24—Pergunnahs of the state of<br/>
the southern portion of his district, he lost no time<br/>
in sending out food for the starving population and<br/>
in providing for the burial of the dead and the re-<br/>
moval of carcasses. He at once obtained an advance<br/>
of Rs. 5,000 from Government and caused supplies<br/>
of rice to be hurried down to Diamond Harbour,<br/>
Futtehpore, Atcheepore, and Dabeepore;" thus re-<br/>
lieving 11,864 persons. Steps were taken for clear-<br/>
ing the tanks, and extra police were supplied. The<br/>
Lieutenant Governor "directed that measures should<br/>
be taken for immediately employing the whole of<br/>
the population, which might be in want of work and<br/>
food, in repairing the embankments in the 24-Per-<br/>
gunnahs, Hidgellee, and Midnapore on ordinary<br/>
wages, but without adhering at the commencement<br/>
to the strict exaction of work to be done for the<br/>
day's wages, and he directed that all people asking<br/>
for work should be employed in this manner without<br/>
excepting women and children.” The Marine De-<br/>
partment despatched 6 steamers with assistance to<br/>
the villages on either bank. “The Lieutenant<br/>
Governor also directed that the whole of the sea-<br/>
coast should be examined, and, as far as possible,<br/>
also all the creeks in the Sunderbuns. The relief,<br/>
however, which could be given by the Officers of<br/>
Government was necessarily inadequate to meet the<br/>
wants of such a population as that which was suffer-<br/>
ing." Meanwhile a large public meeting was held<br/>
in Calcutta and with the assistance of Bombay a<br/>
sum of about £30,000 has been raised. The Relief<br/>
Fund Committee despatched two steamers with as-<br/>
sistance and made grants of money to Missionaries,<br/>
Magistrates and English and Native gentlemen for<br/>
distribution in the rural districts. The Fund up to<br/>
the close of the year had expended £21,864 of which<br/>
£11,615 was for stores of food and clothing, £534<br/>
for widows and orphans of European officers of<br/>
steamers and others, and £2,500 to the Calcutta<br/>
Sailors' Home. The result of these measures, and<br/>
of time, is that "the country on the east side of the<br/>
river has been gradually reviving, and hants are be-<br/>
ing held and the people are resuming their occupa-<br/>
tion; the distribution of food gratis to able-bodied<br/>
men has in consequence been here discontinued; but<br/>
the quantity served out at once to women and chil-<br/>
dren has been doubled, so that they may take away<br/>
enough for two meals at once. To this rule, however,<br/>
the Island of Sangor is still an exception, and the<br/>
people there must yet continue to be fed by charity<br/>
for some time to come. On the western side of the<br/>
river also the supplies of food free of cost are being<br/>
continued, because no work of any kind has there<br/>
been procurable for those in distress.” The water<br/>
is beginning to be much less impure than was feared.<br/>
The numerous distressed seamen at first found em-<br/>
ployment as additional constables, and in the dis-<br/>
abled ships. But when the press of work abated it<br/>
was resolved to send home such as came under the<br/>
provisions of the Merchant Seaman’s Act. Some<br/>
30 men were employed by the Rear Admiral at<br/>
Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Future Precautions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"To guard against a return of the disasters which<br/>
occurred to the Shipping during the storm, the ques-<br/>
tions submitted for the consideration of Government<br/>
have been (1) the construction of Wet Docks for the<br/>
accommodation of the Shipping; (2) the completion<br/>
of the requirements at Port Canning with a view to<br/>
to direct a portion of the Shipping to Mutlah; (3)<br/>
the best mode of relaying the moorings so as to ren-<br/>
der them more secure. The two first questions are<br/>
before the Government of India. To consider the<br/>
third proposal a Committee was appointed and "an<br/>
urgent request has been sent home already for screw<br/>
moorings for the Port in the place of the ordinary<br/>
moorings hitherto in use. Henceforth, also, "from<br/>
the 30th September until after the full moon of<br/>
November, no Ship in the Port shall be allowed to<br/>
have top-gallant yards or top-gallant masts aloft, and<br/>
they shall in addition strike top-sail yard and top-<br/>
masts when required to do so."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Friend of India.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
More Concerning Pra-T'om chedee
A translation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two years before the great flood (which<br/>
was terribly destructive of vegetable life in<br/>
Siam, thirty-four years ago) the Chief Priest<br/>
of Temple Samaw-rei, caused an image of<br/>
Buddh to be cast for his own personal<br/>
benefit, and about the same time removed a<br/>
small portable Pagoda from the Old city,<br/>
and had a new layer of silver cast about it,<br/>
when it attained the stature of about one<br/>
cubit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next dry season having arrived, the<br/>
Chief Priest paid a visit to the ancient Pago-<br/>
da P'ra-pra-t'om-Chedee, for the purpose<br/>
of worshipping Buddh, when many other<br/>
Buddhist priests accompanied him. On a<br/>
certain evening he went up to the sacred<br/>
Pagoda, and worshipped in the holy place.<br/>
After worship, he is said to have offered<br/>
the following prayer in the Bali language,<br/>
—I have great reverence for this Pagoda,<br/>
and consider it to be the most ancient mon-<br/>
ument of Buddah in all Siam, which is<br/>
proved to be a fact from the form and style<br/>
of it, there being none like it in modern<br/>
times, so that the present generation of<br/>
men hardly recognize it to be a Pagoda.<br/>
And it would appear that the founder of it<br/>
did indeed enshrine in it that which makes<br/>
it worthy of being a place to be held in<br/>
the highest reverence, and that hence he<br/>
expended upon it a large amount of property,<br/>
making it so large and firm that it has suc-<br/>
cessfully resisted the wear and tear of may<br/>
ages. And now if there be in truth any<br/>
sacred relics of Buddah any where in this<br/>
world, I think there must be portions of<br/>
them enshrined some where within this sa-<br/>
cred structure. And if it be so, I beg that<br/>
the angel in charge will be pleased to divide<br/>
unto me about two pieces of the same, as<br/>
I desire to enshrine one of them in the idol,<br/>
and the other in the pagoda which I have<br/>
made, that I may have them near me in the<br/>
great city to worship, and before which to<br/>
present continual offerings, as would be<br/>
most worthy. And this I desire because<br/>
this P'ra-pra-t'om-Chedee is now far off in<br/>
the wilderness and not in a suitable place<br/>
for the people generally to resort for wor-<br/>
ship. Hence I beg that the guardian angel<br/>
will be pleased to distribute unto me of the<br/>
sacred relics about two pieces (ong.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having offered this prayer, he then sent<br/>
one of his personal attendants to take a<br/>
precious calipot, borne on a salver and<br/>
place it in a niche of the Pagoda on the<br/>
east side. In the afternoon of that day, as<br/>
the Chief Priest was about to descend from<br/>
the place of worship, he sent a servant to<br/>
invite the calipot to return, and behold<br/>
there had been nothing deposited in it by<br/>
the angel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A month or more after this, (the Chief<br/>
Priest having returned to his temple in<br/>
Bangkok, the following event transpired at<br/>
Temple Ma-ha t'at in this city, where His<br/>
Majesty the Supreme King graduated in his<br/>
youth.) There was a very precious image of<br/>
Buddh in the Temple, one of great antiquity.<br/>
On a certain night about eleven o'clock, a<br/>
company of priests went in and worshipped<br/>
in the holy place. When they had proceeded<br/>
about half through, they beheld something<br/>
like smoke, of a reddish color, ascending<br/>
from the place of the idol, which had a<br/>
pleasant fragrance like that of burning in-<br/>
cense sticks. The smoke increased until<br/>
the idol seemed to be of a red complexion<br/>
like that of betel. The priests were all<br/>
quite startled at the sight, and rose up to<br/>
examine the phenomenon, thinking that it<br/>
might be a fire which had caught there.<br/>
But they saw nothing but the reddish smoke,<br/>
and returned to their devotions, and fin-<br/>
ished their rehearsal. At this time the<br/>
strange sight gradually disappeared. The<br/>
priests then proceeded to investigate more<br/>
narrowly the causes of the smoke, expecting<br/>
to find that it had arisen from some fire<br/>
without. But they found nothing to solve<br/>
the mystery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Early next morning they reported this<br/>
phenomenon to the Chief Priest (at Temple<br/>
Samaw rei). He arose and went to Tem-<br/>
ple Ma-ha t'at to examine into the wonder<br/>
that had occurred. In pursuing his inves-<br/>
tigations, he found (in the urn employed<br/>
for the purpose of preserving the sacred<br/>
relics) two more pieces of the sacred relics<br/>
than there had been before. Whereupon<br/>
he interrogated the priests of the Temple if<br/>
they had ever before noticed them. Their<br/>
reply was that they had not. He then<br/>
inquired of the keeper of the doors of the<br/>
place if he knew of any one placing them<br/>
there. His reply was that he did not. He<br/>
then summoned a meeting of many persons<br/>
to witness the two sacred relics. They<br/>
were all unanimous in the opinion that they<br/>
could not have been put there by human<br/>
hands, and that they must have come there<br/>
themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The two new relics were different from<br/>
any that are seen in modern times, being<br/>
each about the size of a mustard seed, of a<br/>
whitish complexion like the flowers of the<br/>
P'ee-koon. They had each two or three<br/>
white dots in a straight line. Prince So-<br/>
p’on was the first to discover this peculi-<br/>
arity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These two relics are now enshrined in a<br/>
Pagoda of precious stones within the Tem-<br/>
ple P're-rata-na Satsa-daram.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[ A legitimate inference from the above<br/>
is, that the two relics having both sought<br/>
for at P'ra pra t'om Chedee and expected<br/>
from thence, were by superhuman power<br/>
brought to temple Ma-ha-t'at and given as<br/>
above described. Hence the great respect<br/>
now paid to that Pagoda.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Home News.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The military news from America since our last is<br/>
unimportant. There is nothing very definite as to<br/>
Sherman's movements. The Charleston correspon-<br/>
dent of the "Richmond Despatch" writes, on Jan-<br/>
uary 10, that General Sherman had commenced his<br/>
movement on Branchville and Augusta, and that he<br/>
had sent out corps on the west bank of the Savan-<br/>
nah River, a second to Wilmington, and two to<br/>
Beaufort. "If Sherman is once estahislied on the<br/>
railroad, either at Branchville or some other point<br/>
near Augusta:" the writer says, "the fall of Char-<br/>
leston becomes only a question of time; and but a<br/>
short time." Other Richmond journals represent<br/>
Sherman to have been concentrating his forces at<br/>
M'Phersonville, South Carolina, and that on Jan<br/>
uary 17, his advance was within two miles of the<br/>
Combahee River. The destruction of Forts Caswell<br/>
and Campbell, near Wilmington, by the Confederates,<br/>
had been officially annouced. It was rumoured<br/>
that the Confederates had destroyed their blockade-<br/>
runner inside the bar, below the Tallehassee and<br/>
Chickamauga, and burnt 50 million dolls. of cotton.<br/>
The two latter rumours were not credited. A large<br/>
force of gunboats was stationed between Fort Cas-<br/>
well and Wilmington. Five large-sized blockade-<br/>
runners had been captured in Cape Fear River.<br/>
They were not aware of the Federal occupation.<br/>
Others were on the way to fall into the same trap.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Admiral Porter reports that the navy occupied Fort<br/>
Caswell, Bald Head, Fort Shaw, and the earthworks<br/>
on Smith's Island, Smithville. The admiral says:—<br/>
"In each fort an Armstrong gun was found with the<br/>
broad arrow upon it. The British Government claim-<br/>
ing the exclusive right to use these guns, it would<br/>
be interesting to know how they came into rebel<br/>
forts." The total number of guns captured, includ-<br/>
ing those in Fort Fisher, is 153. The admiral also<br/>
states that he will move carefully along, and believes<br/>
he will be in Wilmington before long. He announ-<br/>
ces that the remainder of the rifled guns in the fleet<br/>
have burst, and that the reputation of these guns is<br/>
ruined. The greater portion of the larger vessels<br/>
had returned to Hampton Roads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wilmington papers state that the Federal gun-<br/>
boats were unable to advance, as the monitors<br/>
cannot carry water enough to come up the river.<br/>
The Confederates hold Fort Andrews and have field<br/>
artillery adequate to destroy the lighter draught<br/>
gunboats. Confederate reinforcements were arriving<br/>
at Wilmington. General Terry had demanded the<br/>
surrender of the city, giving Bragg until the 19th<br/>
January to decide. The removal of public property<br/>
was progressing, and much confusion prevailed.<br/>
The impression was that Wilmington would sur-<br/>
render, the people remaining in it. President Davis<br/>
is said to have arrived in that city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Confederates state that after the occupation<br/>
of Pocotaligo the Federals attempted to advance to-<br/>
wards Charleston, but were checked at the crossing<br/>
of Combahee River, which was amply fortified for a<br/>
protracted defence. Heavy reinforcements had<br/>
arrived in Charleston, and non-combatants were<br/>
leaving. All business was suspended, and govern-<br/>
ment property, except arms, was removed. The rear<br/>
of the city is reported stocked with torpedoes. A pub-<br/>
lic meeting at Columbia opposed the evacuation of<br/>
the city. Charleston despatches state that Foster's<br/>
troops, 15,000 strong, advanced on Pocotaligo on<br/>
January 14, and that the Confederates, after an<br/>
obstinate resistance, retreated across the Salkahat-<br/>
chie River. It is reported from Hilton Head that<br/>
the Federals had captured 2000 prisoners and three<br/>
guns on the Upper Broad River. Federal reinforce-<br/>
ments were being rapidly concentrated at Savannah,<br/>
New Inlet, and on the James River, for early and<br/>
simultaneous attacks upon Charleston, Wilmington,<br/>
and Richmond.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gunboats were four miles above Fort Fisher.<br/>
The Confederates have breastworks from the ocean<br/>
to the river, above the Federal lines, to contest the<br/>
advance on the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Colonel Lamb is reported to be mortally wounded<br/>
There is no millitary news of importance<br/>
from Virginia, though deserters report Lee<br/>
to be preparing for an offensive movement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A fleet of three ironclads, five gunboats,<br/>
and three boats from Richmond, under the<br/>
reported command of Semmes, descended the<br/>
James River during the night of the 23rd<br/>
of January, with the intention, it is sup-<br/>
posed, of surprising the Federal flotilla and<br/>
destroying Grant's stores at City Point.<br/>
One only of the vessels succeeded in forcing<br/>
a passage through the Federal obstruction,<br/>
three grounded, one of which (the gunboat<br/>
Drury) was abandoned; the others were<br/>
ultimately relieved, but, daylight appearing,<br/>
the expedition was relinquished, and the<br/>
fleet returned to Richmond. It is reported<br/>
that on the first appearance of the Confed-<br/>
erates the Federal gunboats retreated pre-<br/>
cipitately towards Fortress Monroe. Despat-<br/>
ches from the latter place state that if the<br/>
Confederates ironclad had it not grounded<br/>
Grant's iron transport works at City Point<br/>
would have been destroyed. Preparations<br/>
had been made at City Point in anticipation<br/>
of the renewal of the attack. Simultaneously<br/>
with the naval attack the Confederates ap-<br/>
peared on the Charles City Road, ap-<br/>
parently to attack the Federals on the north<br/>
bank of the James.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters from the Shenandoah represent great<br/>
suffering in consequence of Sheridan's<br/>
devastation. Grain was not only scarce,<br/>
but there were no mills to grind it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the South-West it is reported that<br/>
Thomas is still at East-Port, Mississippi, and<br/>
is reported to be constructing winter quart-<br/>
ers. The indications are that he will not<br/>
move from his present position. Forrest’s<br/>
cavalry was said to be concentrating at<br/>
Houston, Mississippi, probably for a raid up-<br/>
on Memphis. Hood’s army is reported to<br/>
be in excellent spirits, and larger than when<br/>
it entered Middle Tennessee. The reports<br/>
concerning its demoralised condition were<br/>
grossly exaggerated, its total losses, in<br/>
Tennessee, being only about 8000 men. It<br/>
was rumored that Hood had been superse-<br/>
ded by General Richard Taylor, and that<br/>
General Joe E. Johnston is to command the<br/>
armies of the South-West, second only to<br/>
Lee in authority. Beauregard is at Tupel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large numbers of troops have left Nash-<br/>
ville for New Orleans, it is believed for an<br/>
expedition against Mobile, or up the Red<br/>
River. An expedition is organizing at<br/>
New Orleans for Pacagoula.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Price has captured<br/>
Fort Smith, Arkansas, with a garrison of<br/>
2000 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ADMIRAL PORTER'S Official Report of <br/>
the taking of Fort Fisher contains the fol- <br/>
lowing paragraph:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These works are tremendous. I was in <br/>
Fort Malakoff a few days after its surrender <br/>
to the French and British. The combined <br/>
Armies of those two nations were months <br/>
capturing that stronghold, and it was not <br/>
to be compared either in size or strength to <br/>
Fort Fisher. The Fort contained 75 guns <br/>
and many of them were heavy ones.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_6_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSUL AT SIAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate Jan. 7th in executive session,<br/>
confirmed the nomination of James L.<br/>
Hood of Illinois; to be U. S. Consul at<br/>
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_6_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TELEGRAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, 4th March 1855.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wilmington taken—Charleston taken.<br/>
Beauregard dead.—Panic in Liverpool, Cot-<br/>
ton down to one shilling.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
   All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.<br/>
   A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.<br/>
   There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.<br/>
   The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.<br/>
   Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kyam Ali deceased, Notice is hereby<br/>
given, that all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands against the estate<br/>
of Kyam Ali, Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th of February<br/>
last, intestate, are hereby required to send<br/>
the particulars in writing of their claims to<br/>
the undersigned the Administrator, on or<br/>
before the 31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said administrator<br/>
will proceed to distribute the estate and<br/>
effects of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having regard only<br/>
to such claims of which he shall then have<br/>
had notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dated at the British Consulate
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Siam. March 14th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(s.d.) Thomas George Knox
H. B. M. Consul
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The interest and responsibility
OF MR. J.W. THIES
in our firm ceased on the 31st
of December 1864.
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Bangkok, 1st January 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 12th TO 28th MARCH 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>5</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assault</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>10</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Highway Robbery</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cutting & Wounding</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Throwing Stones</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Robbery of Jewellery, &c.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Passing counterfeit money</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Quarrelling at a gambling</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>house.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Agent to the Court of Ava.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Captain Sladden of the<br/>
Madras Army, has been appointed by the<br/>
Governor General of India, British Agent at<br/>
the Court of Ava.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Williams who was insulted and threat-<br/>
ened by the Burmese officials, as men-<br/>
tioned by a writer in the columns of<br/>
contemporary some mouth since, was not a<br/>
regular accredited Agent of the British<br/>
Government, but only an Agent of Colonel<br/>
Phaire the commissioner of British Burmah.<br/>
If these insults be repeated in the case of<br/>
Captain Sladden, Burmah may soon find<br/>
herself in the condition of Bhootan, which<br/>
is atoning for its outrages towards a British<br/>
Agent by the loss of a large portion, if not<br/>
of all of its territory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steamer Chow Phya, Left Singapore at<br/>
4 P. M. on Thursday March 16th, arrived at<br/>
Cape St. James, on Monday 20th, and left<br/>
Saigon, on Thursday 23rd, arriving at the<br/>
bar on the evening of the 26th, Crossing the<br/>
bar at 6.30 A. M. on Monday 27th, and<br/>
arriving in Bangkok, at Noon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Passengers, Per Chow Phya.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mons. Brum. Mrs. Howetson and family,<br/>
and Dr. Squire.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FROM HOME NEWS.
SPAIN
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ministry have obtained a large majority in the<br/>
election of the members of the committee appointed<br/>
by the Congress to examine the bill for the forced<br/>
loan. In consequence of this it is believed that no<br/>
change will take place in the ministry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Accounts from Puerto Rico state that a party hos-<br/>
tile to Spain were agitating throughout the country.<br/>
Some political agents from the Federal States had<br/>
been arrested and expelled by the authorities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The forced loan proposed by the Minister of<br/>
Finance had been sanctioned into a voluntary one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Intelligence had been received at Madrid from<br/>
Lisbon, announcing that Portugal had resolved upon<br/>
remaining neutral in the war between Brazil. Par-<br/>
aguay, and the Bands Oriental.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE DUCHIES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been announced in Berlin that the<br/>
answer sent by the Prussian government to<br/>
the Austrian despatch of Dec. 31 which re-<br/>
ferred to the primary establishment of the<br/>
Prince of Augustenberg in the Duchies,<br/>
leaves matters in the same condition of<br/>
suspense. The Prussian government ad-<br/>
heres to the demand that before an end is<br/>
put to the provisional condition of affairs<br/>
in the Duchies, the relations of the new<br/>
State to Prussia shall be defined and set-<br/>
tled. It is asserted, however, that in the new<br/>
despatch, the pretensions made by Prussia<br/>
respecting the future of Schleswig-Holstein<br/>
and its position in the new State are not<br/>
defined, since they are still being discussed<br/>
by the Ministers at Berlin. Farther, the<br/>
despatch again points to the necessity of<br/>
receiving the opinion of the Crown jurists<br/>
before any definitive arrangements are come<br/>
to respecting the Duchies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Besides this official despatch, M. von<br/>
Bismarck has replied by a confidential note<br/>
to the confidential despatch of Count von<br/>
Mensdorff of the 31st December, which the<br/>
Austrian representative at Berlin read to<br/>
Prussian Prime Minister without leaving<br/>
a copy. This reply, which is similar to<br/>
the ofﬁcial answer, develops in a long argu-<br/>
ment the motives which have prevented the<br/>
Prussian government from agreeing to Count<br/>
von Rechberg’s proposition of recognising<br/>
provisionally, while reserving the questions<br/>
of succession, Prince Frederic as Duke of<br/>
Schleswig-Holstein, and of transmitting to<br/>
him the rights acquired by the German<br/>
Powers through the treaty of peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MEXICO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unreliable reports had boon received at<br/>
New York, via San Francisco, to the effect<br/>
that the Mexican government has ceded the<br/>
provinces of Sonora, Chihuahua, Sindola,<br/>
Durango, and Lower California to the Em-<br/>
peror Napoleon, in return for the aid ren-<br/>
dered by his troops in the establishment of<br/>
the Mexican empire. Ex-Senator Gwin, of<br/>
California, is said to have been appointed<br/>
viceroy, with the title of Duke. The Vice-<br/>
roy Gwin is to have a sufficient force of<br/>
troops to support him in the exercise of his<br/>
functions. Emigration to work the mines,<br/>
and develop the resources of the provinces<br/>
ceded to France, is to be encouraged from<br/>
the Confederate States and from Southern<br/>
residents in California. The alleged new<br/>
State extends from the Gulf of Mexico to<br/>
the Pacific.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French troops were continually gain-<br/>
ing new successes in their operations on the<br/>
Pacific coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_8_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AUSTRIA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Minister of Police has declared that at the end<br/>
of February all the Poles detained in Austrian towns<br/>
would be released. The prisoners are to receive 25<br/>
florins each for their expenses on the journey out of<br/>
Austria.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FROM THE FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE condition of the native population<br/>
in Bengal is such as to call urgently for the<br/>
attention of Government. We are inform-<br/>
ed that the villages between Calcutta and<br/>
Kedgeree, along the banks of the river, are<br/>
in a most deplorable state. The native pa-<br/>
pers keep us well informed about the tyran-<br/>
ny of English planters, but they are quite<br/>
silent with reference to greater cruelty<br/>
which is being practised by their own coun-<br/>
trymen. A gentleman who went through<br/>
a large portion of the suffering districts<br/>
lately, distributing relief, states to us that<br/>
everywhere the ryots came to him with<br/>
touching complaints of the treatment they<br/>
had experienced from the zemindars. "We<br/>
do not want your money," they said, "but<br/>
time to pay our rent, and that the zemin-<br/>
dars will not give." Baboos who figure<br/>
prominently in public meetings have refused<br/>
to help their starving and houseless ryots<br/>
in any way, and in the 24-Pergunnahs there<br/>
are cases of oppression on the one side, and<br/>
distress on the other, so inconceivable that<br/>
they would be past belief, only that they<br/>
are well accredited. In his worst phase the<br/>
planter is a merciful man compared with<br/>
some of these zemindars, for the planter is<br/>
at least an Englishman, and not a coward<br/>
by instinct, and a tyrant by nature, and a<br/>
hypocrite by stress of both. "How could<br/>
I act like this?" asked one zemindar of our<br/>
informant, when the latter questioned him<br/>
about his treatment of the ryots; "it would<br/>
be against my reputation." Yet the ryots<br/>
are driven out to perish in the fields, on<br/>
which the crops are still rotting. Mr. Ashley<br/>
Ellen, who searches so carefully into every<br/>
reported case of oppression in the indigo<br/>
districts, might with advantage direct his<br/>
enquiries into the 24 Pergunnahs. Our in<br/>
formation comes, as we have said, from gen-<br/>
tlemen who have been engaged in the dis-<br/>
tribution of relief, and it is very easy to as-<br/>
certain on what foundation it is based. One<br/>
fact is certain—the distress yet remaining<br/>
throughout the flooded districts is very<br/>
great. The loss of life has been estimated<br/>
at no less than 60,000—upwards of 7000<br/>
persons having been swept off the island of<br/>
Sangor alone. In the Hooghly district there<br/>
is also a really awful scene of want and<br/>
misery in almost every direction. The Magis-<br/>
trate of Serampore happened the other day<br/>
to visit the village of Dwarhatta, in the Than-<br/>
nah of Hurripal, and found unspeakable<br/>
wretchedness and desolation. The epidemic<br/>
fever had swept away whole households, or<br/>
carried off adults, leaving only children to<br/>
wander about the huts. The tanks were<br/>
full of rotting vegetation, and the trees lay<br/>
where they had fallen. On making known<br/>
the case to the Relief Committee, one<br/>
thousand rupees were sent, and with this<br/>
sum Mr. Ryland has distributed medicines,<br/>
and greatly lightened the distress. The<br/>
ravages of the fever are appalling, or perhaps<br/>
we should rather say they would be appal-<br/>
ling in any land but India. The unhappy<br/>
people fall sick, and by themselves down to<br/>
die without hope of help. If there happen<br/>
to be a native doctor near, he refuses to<br/>
visit them without a fee; and this world’s<br/>
goods they have none, and so they simply<br/>
perish. The medical men of Hooghly have<br/>
been generous in going about, but the in-<br/>
fected district is now very wide, and ex-<br/>
traordinary measures would be required to<br/>
do all that is called for. The fever is in it-<br/>
self a terrible one—even if it does not kill<br/>
outright, it leaves its victims shattered so<br/>
that they cannot work for months, or in-<br/>
capacitates them from future labour alto-<br/>
gether. It is impossible to tell the extent<br/>
of suffering which is going on in this one<br/>
district alone. The missionaries, assisted<br/>
by the Relief Committee, have done what<br/>
they can to relieve it. But it is the lament-<br/>
able truth to state that whole districts are at this<br/>
moment being rapidly depopulated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Courrier de Saigon some twelve<br/>
months ago condemned the policy of any<br/>
Government interference with the selling of<br/>
opium, and was content to leave to other<br/>
nations “the murderous glory of poisoning<br/>
populations by this impure source of reve-<br/>
nue.” This Courrier, as we stated last<br/>
week, is the official paper. The French<br/>
have not been consistent. Revenue, even<br/>
from opium, they found was not to be des-<br/>
pised, and they not long ago established an<br/>
opium farm at Saigon which they sold to a<br/>
Frenchman for eight thousand dollars a<br/>
month. The farmer was suspected of de-<br/>
frauding the Government, was tried, thrown<br/>
into prison, and has recently died, just as<br/>
the reversal of his sentence arrived from<br/>
the home Court of Calcutta. The Saigon<br/>
authorities have rented the farm to some<br/>
Chinese, which seems not a bad imitation, the<br/>
the Straits Times remarks, of the "murder-<br/>
ous glory" of "other nations."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The overflow of the Nile this year has<br/>
been six feet below that of last, and the<br/>
Egyptian Government have, in consequence,<br/>
issued an order prohibiting proprietors of<br/>
land from sowing more than a fixed pro-<br/>
portion of the ground with cotton. The<br/>
prohibition of the export of wheat and<br/>
flour has been continued, and there has<br/>
been further prohibition of the export of<br/>
barley. Wheat, barley, and flour, are, the<br/>
Levant Herald states, to be admitted duty<br/>
free up to the 7th of April 1865.<br/>
—We see it stated that a convention<br/>
has been concluded between the British<br/>
Government and the Porte for the working<br/>
of the Anglo-Indian telegraph. A Turk-<br/>
ish office will be established at Fao where<br/>
the land and sub-marine lines meet. One<br/>
wiro from Constantinople will be exclusive-<br/>
ly used for Indian messages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—We have received a telegram announcing the<br/>
loss by fire of the Dundee ship Lochee on her way<br/>
to Calcutta for jute. She was burnt off Galle with<br/>
a loss of two men. The rest of the crew and five<br/>
passengers were landed by the ship Sounhong, some<br/>
of them much burnt. The ship belongs to the well-<br/>
known firm of Cox Brothers who have the largest<br/>
jute-spinning mills in the world. She had a cargo<br/>
of wet coals which exploded. The passengers are<br/>
fortunately being brought on by the P. and O.<br/>
str. Sinla to Calcutta, but they have lost their all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The King of Siam is quite as good a Political<br/>
Economist as he is an English scholar. Owing to<br/>
scarcity of rain a famine threatens, and the king<br/>
publishes a declaration of perfect free trade, to put<br/>
the people on their guard against the tricks of the<br/>
rice-dealers. "Should any declare that there is an<br/>
order from either of their Majesties, the First or the<br/>
Second King, limiting the price of rice, to prevent<br/>
its being sold at high rates, or to constrain the sell-<br/>
er, do not believe him, but seize him, and deliver<br/>
him over to the civil authorities." Would that such<br/>
chiefs as Holkar and Rewah, who have become<br/>
princely "Bunnias," where half as enlightened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The Budhist Priests of Kandy have been engag-<br/>
ed in the election of a Dowe Nilleme, or guardian<br/>
to the shrine, containing the supposed tooth of<br/>
Budha, in the great Kandy temple. The choice has<br/>
fallen upon Coody Bando Dunuwille, the brother of<br/>
a wellknown Advocate in the local courts. This<br/>
selection is conditional on the approval of the Gov-<br/>
ernor. What has the Governor of Ceylon to say to<br/>
Budha's tooth? We were under the impression<br/>
that the authorities there had long ceased to have<br/>
the faintest semblance of connection with this partic-<br/>
ular form of idolatry.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_9_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. APRIL 1st 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Beutick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Christian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Bella Donna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hammon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Q. of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Cronk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hide</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kim Thay Rhin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Rynear</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Klin Hong Sun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">656</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Peru</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Therlson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">230</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hamb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">310</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Norfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">189</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rd2">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. APRIL 1st 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rd7">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Oftdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">338</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinene</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">BenticK</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Möller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gottlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Frendenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Man</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schroder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Keng Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">420</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Eclipse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Camman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">F. or Charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">381</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Euphrates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Behmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Aictorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Neam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Goliath</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Guan Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ritcher</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Man</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Johnstone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Seun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">650</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moulter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">397</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chu</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Norfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">132</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siagon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Boon Seng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chia Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Orcates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolfe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">880</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Holinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">716</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pearl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Koefed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Abdul Rasool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacon Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">816</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Loolbee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Seng Thai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nai Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hide</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Lay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Pon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Berhun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Koo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ty Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Ma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Grieg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">104</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">J Bush</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
