---
linkTitle: 'June 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 1st'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 10
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK THURSDAY JUNE 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 10</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok June 1st.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since our last issue we have received sev-<br/>
eral messages from Siamese Officials with<br/>
regard to the matter published and the ques-<br/>
tions discussed in our columns. We are<br/>
doubtless indebted for these attentions, to<br/>
our very amiable friend the Consul for<br/>
France. There is a very general rumour<br/>
through the town that this official has de-<br/>
manded of the Siamese Government the<br/>
suppression of the Newspaper published<br/>
here. We trust this rumour is without<br/>
good foundation. If we believed the report<br/>
we should be inclined to inquire if Siam<br/>
has already become a province of France?<br/>
If so, it would be indeed time for us, in<br/>
imitation of the Critic of the Emperor's<br/>
History of Cæsar, to seek a Brussels where<br/>
we may find an asylum from Imperial tyr-<br/>
anny. But until better advised we shall<br/>
consider Siam an independent Kingdom<br/>
having certain treaty relations, not with<br/>
France only, but with several European<br/>
States and with the United States of Amer-<br/>
ica. In accordance with these treaty rela-<br/>
tions we rejoice to know that we are not<br/>
under the jurisdiction either of France, or<br/>
Siam. Any suggestions coming from His<br/>
Majesty the Supreme King of Siam, or<br/>
from the chief officials, will always receive<br/>
that respectful consideration to which from<br/>
their high source, they are entitled. But<br/>
we must reserve the undoubted right of<br/>
exercising our judgement, as to what shall<br/>
be published in our columns, being only<br/>
amenable for any abuse of this right to<br/>
our own laws administered by our own<br/>
Consul in the exercise of his judicial func-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We shall feel at liberty to publish any<br/>
facts coming legitimately into our posses-<br/>
sion, and to discuss freely the movements<br/>
of France in Siam and the East. In doing<br/>
so we shall endeavor not to forget the re-<br/>
spect due to the Official position of the<br/>
Consul for France, and shall rejoice to be<br/>
able to entertain at all times that respect<br/>
for the Consul personally derived from his<br/>
honoring the position which honors him.<br/>
But neither from us or from the Govern-<br/>
ment of Siam, can he claim any privileges<br/>
not accorded to the Consuls of the other<br/>
Treaty Powers, and we think we are right<br/>
in maintaining that with the existence of<br/>
other Treaties, each containing the most<br/>
favored nation clause, Siam can have no<br/>
private and confidential relations with<br/>
France; but is obligated to make known<br/>
to the other Treaty Powers any new agree-<br/>
ment entered into with that Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICAN GENERALS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 82)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the age of seventeen the boy and his<br/>
father both began to feel that some decisive<br/>
steps must be taken towards his education.<br/>
The father perceiving his son's taste for<br/>
Military life began to think that probably<br/>
an appointment to West Point Military<br/>
Academy might be obtained for him. He<br/>
immediately wrote to a member of Congress<br/>
from his district requesting his influence in<br/>
securing an appointment for his son. The<br/>
gentleman in reply stated that he had already<br/>
an applicant from that district but said<br/>
there was a vacancy in a neighboring dis-<br/>
trict. This appeared to be the only chance<br/>
for Ulysses, and Mr. Grant wrote without<br/>
delay to the member for that district who<br/>
cheerfully proposed the name of the tan-<br/>
ner's son and obtained the appointment.<br/>
There was however another ordeal through<br/>
which the boy must now pass. Every<br/>
student when he enters must pass an ex-<br/>
amination in certain preparatory studies.<br/>
This was quite an ordeal for Ulysses con-<br/>
sidering the few advantages he had already<br/>
received, but he passed it safely and enter-<br/>
ed the Military Academy July 1st 1839.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
West Point is a beautiful spot on the<br/>
Hudson River fifty two miles above New<br/>
York. The Military Academy there is al-<br/>
lowed to have only two hundred and fifty<br/>
students ranging from fourteen to twenty<br/>
one years of age. Each one is paid wages<br/>
enough per month to defray all his expens-<br/>
es. He is thus enabled to pay all his own<br/>
necessary bills without having them paid<br/>
for him, and a manly independence is thus<br/>
cultivated, whilst the education is at the<br/>
same time gratuitous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cadets in return are required to serve<br/>
at least eight years in the service of the<br/>
government unless dismissed or allowed to<br/>
resign. Ulysses was here thrown among<br/>
the sons of senators, and congressmen, and<br/>
many others who were wealthy. They had<br/>
also, too, previously been at college or some<br/>
scientific school. Here Ulysses labored<br/>
under great disadvantages, for the only<br/>
previous education he had received was as<br/>
we have seen a few months of each year at<br/>
the district school.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The branches generally taught in a coun-<br/>
try district school at that day were Read-<br/>
ing, Writing, Arithmetic, English Gram-<br/>
mar, and Geography. With indomitable<br/>
perseverance however Ulysses succeeded in<br/>
mastering every recitation at the Academy,<br/>
and at the end of the Freshman year when<br/>
examination came, and many were turned<br/>
back he again passed the ordeal and entered<br/>
the higher class. At the end of the second<br/>
year he again passed whilst many fell back.<br/>
At the end of the third year he again pas-<br/>
sed and entered upon the crowning year of<br/>
his course. During his third year he also<br/>
received as a compliment from his compan-<br/>
ions the office of sergeant of the battalion.<br/>
Engineering he mastered by severe ap-<br/>
plication. He also perfected himself in<br/>
horsemanship and he is now one of the<br/>
best horsemen in the army. June 30th<br/>
1843 came, it was graduating day. Of the<br/>
one hundred young men who four years<br/>
before had put on the grey suit of cadets,<br/>
the tanner boy from the district school now<br/>
stands No. 21. Seventy nine of his classmates<br/>
among whom were the sons of senators,<br/>
and professional men were left behind. After<br/>
graduating he was brevetted second Lieu-<br/>
tenant of the fourth Regular Infantry, and<br/>
was sent to Jefferson Barracks near St.<br/>
Louis Missouri. The only active duty he<br/>
there had was an occasional expedition in-<br/>
to the wild country back of St. Louis, and<br/>
along the ruins to protect the inhabitants<br/>
from the incursions of the Indians. In<br/>
1844 he was still with his regiment up the<br/>
Red River in Louisiana. Months again pas-<br/>
sed away without anything striking in the<br/>
life of the young Lieutenant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To please the slaveholders who have since<br/>
rebelled against the United States Govern-<br/>
ment the slave territory had to be impress-<br/>
ed. Texas then standing out as a "lone<br/>
star" was annexed to the Union. A diffi-<br/>
culty arose between Texas and Mexico in<br/>
regard to the boundary line. The United<br/>
States sent to the boundary an army of oc-<br/>
cupation under. Gen. Zachary Taylor. Lieut.<br/>
Grant marched with his regiment to Corpus<br/>
Christo where the troops were concentrat-<br/>
ting. He was there promoted by brevet to<br/>
the rank of first Lieutenant, of the Seventh<br/>
Regiment U. States Infantry, but he pre-<br/>
ferred to remain with his old regiment, and<br/>
requested Government to allow him to do<br/>
so, which was granted and he received his<br/>
regular commission of Second Lieutenant<br/>
of the Fourth Regiment. May 23rd 1846<br/>
active operations commenced. Mexico hav-<br/>
ing in the mean time declared war on the<br/>
ground that the United States had invaded<br/>
her territory. The first engagement be-<br/>
tween the the two opposing armies was the<br/>
short and bloody battle of Palo Alto. In<br/>
that action Lieutenant Grant won the ad-<br/>
miration of his superior officers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next day another severe battle was<br/>
fought at Resaca de la Palma, in which the<br/>
Mexicans were again defeated. Grant's<br/>
character as a true soldier again shone<br/>
forth with new lustre. Next came the<br/>
strongly fortified position of Monterey.<br/>
Another terribly severe, but successful en-<br/>
gagement ensued, Grant again fought despe-<br/>
rately. The city of Mexico now became<br/>
the goal of the United States army, and<br/>
Gen. Winfield Scott was appointed to<br/>
the command. Taylor's forces joined him.<br/>
Grant was appointed quarter master of his<br/>
regiment and given a place upon the Com-<br/>
mander's staff. Vera Cruz was soon taken<br/>
and the army entered the heart of the hos-<br/>
tile Country. Soon came the terrible strug-<br/>
gle of Molina del Rey, The young Lieut.<br/>
was calm and heroic. Ho rode so calmly<br/>
and recklessly through the storm of leaden<br/>
had that he was at once brevetted first<br/>
Lieutenant. Congress however is often<br/>
slow in recognizing true merit, so she re-<br/>
fused to ratify the brevet, and Grant re-<br/>
ceived the empty brevet alone. Five days<br/>
after Molina del Rey came the frowning<br/>
and strongly fortified heights of Chapul-<br/>
tepec. They must be stormed. None was<br/>
more daring in that action than Grant.<br/>
Capt. Brooks of the second Artillery re-<br/>
ports as follows. "I succeeded in reaching<br/>
the Fort with a few men. Here Lieut. U.<br/>
S. Grant and a few more men of the<br/>
Fourth Infantry joined mo and by a joint<br/>
movement and after an obstinate resistance<br/>
a strong field work was carried, and the<br/>
enemies right completely turned."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Major Lee, now Lieutenant General Lee<br/>
Commander-in-chief of the rebel forces, and<br/>
Grant's great antagonist reports as follows.<br/>
"At the first barrier the enemy were in strong<br/>
force which rendered it necessary to ad-<br/>
vance with caution. This was done; and<br/>
when the head of the battalion was within<br/>
short musket range of the barrier, Lieut.<br/>
Grant of the Fourth Infantry and Capt.<br/>
Brooks of the Second Artillery, with a few<br/>
men of their respective regiments by a<br/>
handsome movement to the left turned the<br/>
right flank of the enemy and the barrier<br/>
was carried. Lieutenant Grant behaved with<br/>
distinguished ability on the 13th and 14th.<br/>
Thus it may be perceived that even at that<br/>
early day he was renowned for flanking.<br/>
Little did Major Lee then suppose that he<br/>
would one day be arrayed against that<br/>
government which they were both then<br/>
serving with distinguished ability, and that<br/>
Lieutenant Grant would be his great an-<br/>
tagonist, and by those same flank move-<br/>
ments he would bring him precipitately<br/>
from Spotsylvania to the South side of the<br/>
James, and there hang on to him with bull<br/>
dog tenacity until he forced him to evac-<br/>
uate his stronghold. Grant was brevetted<br/>
Captain from the battle of Chapultapec.<br/>
He also participated in the taking of Mexi-<br/>
co having been in all the battles of the war<br/>
except Buena Vista, having fought in four-<br/>
teen engagements. Peace was declared in<br/>
1848 and the army disbanded. After the<br/>
war Grant married Miss Dent a sensible<br/>
young lady whose father still resides near<br/>
St. Louis Missouri.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was afterwards sent to a post on<br/>
Lake Ontario where of course there was<br/>
but little to do, and he occasionally visited<br/>
a neighboring village where he was known<br/>
chiefly for his ability in playing checkers.<br/>
After the gold fever broke out in California,<br/>
and it was necessary to send some troops<br/>
there to keep things straight, Grant and his<br/>
Fourth Regiment were sent to the Pacific<br/>
where he received his full rank of<br/>
Captain.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRENCH IN COCHIN CHINA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 85.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being now in possession of the three<br/>
richest provinces of the Annam kingdom,<br/>
we soon found the difficulties of governing<br/>
them, and it now became necessary to as-<br/>
certain the boundries, and to facilitate the<br/>
rich imports of trade, if we did not exercise<br/>
an influence in Cambodia, and to explore<br/>
the magnificent river of that name which<br/>
is fed by three great rivers, one of which,<br/>
the Laos, takes its rise in the mountains of<br/>
Thibet. The kingdom of Cambodia after<br/>
having attained as high a state of civiliza-<br/>
tion as China, has now fallen back into<br/>
barbarism, and for the last 200 years has<br/>
been in a state of anarchy, and at different<br/>
times she has called to her assistance the<br/>
arms of Annam and Siam. The Govern-<br/>
ment of Hue has profited by the frequent<br/>
aids, sent to Cambodia, and has assumed<br/>
the right of intermeddling with her inter-<br/>
nal affairs, and exercises a sovereignty<br/>
there more or less vigorous. The King of<br/>
Cambodia is invested by the King of An-<br/>
nam and pays him an annual tribute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The kingdom of Siam, which borders on<br/>
Cambodia, has the same pretensions to<br/>
her, alhough their interference has often<br/>
been repulsed by the inhabitants. Our ar-<br/>
rival in Cochin China, our war with the<br/>
Annamites, and later still our taking pos-<br/>
session of the three provinces, appears to<br/>
have been considered by the Siamese, as<br/>
favorable opportunities, and they have very<br/>
adroitly taken advantage to annex to their<br/>
territories several provinces of Cambodia,<br/>
and arrogating to themselves the right of<br/>
solely electing the sovereign of that king-<br/>
dom. The King who reigns at Bangkok<br/>
has not succeeded in his claim, for King Tu-<br/>
duc has also laid claim to the sovereignty<br/>
of Cambodia, and has in reality exercised<br/>
great vigilance there, as it is the only<br/>
means of uniting those parts of that king-<br/>
dom, which he has joined to his territory,<br/>
and he baa agents present with his vassal<br/>
the King of Cambodia, who never does a<br/>
sovereign act without consulting them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We might be indifferent to the intrigues<br/>
of the Government of Siam; if left to her-<br/>
self she would give us no apprehension,<br/>
but it is from Bangkok that England watch-<br/>
es with jealousy the progress of our estab-<br/>
lishment in Cochin China. It has not<br/>
escaped her shrewdness, that in the Penin-<br/>
sula of Indo-China the preponderance will<br/>
be held by this nation who commands the<br/>
entrance of one of the most admirable riv-<br/>
ers of Asia, and the source of the richest<br/>
productions in the world. England has<br/>
the hold of the King of Siam, a prince of<br/>
Indian descent, and who is of that feeble<br/>
race which she is accustomed to manage,<br/>
and she has made him an instrument in<br/>
her antagonism against us. At present she<br/>
is content with opposing him to us, to re-<br/>
sist our influence; but should a war here-<br/>
after happen between her (England) and<br/>
us, it might be that power reunite in high<br/>
Cambodia means of attacking our provinces<br/>
of Mithio and Ga-dinh ? Two proceedings<br/>
of the Siamese Government make it our<br/>
duty to examine more closely that posit-<br/>
ion. The representative of the King of<br/>
Siam at Udong, (the capital of Cambodia)<br/>
wrote in Oct. 1862 to Admiral Bonard<br/>
asking him, when he meant to give back<br/>
the mouth of the river Bassai in Lower<br/>
Cambodia, to the Cambodians, he being<br/>
afraid to claim it directly in the name of<br/>
his sovereign.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Later the Minister for Foreign affairs of<br/>
the Court of Bangkok informed Admiral<br/>
Grandiere (who had succeeded Admiral<br/>
Bonard) of his intention to expedite from<br/>
time to time Siamese officers to Saigon,<br/>
and as his Government had only a few<br/>
steamers capable of doubling the Cape of<br/>
Cambodia, he wished to send them the in-<br/>
terior route, by the the canal of Ha-tien.<br/>
The illusion could not have been rnore<br/>
plain, and therefore it became necessary to<br/>
discover these nanoeuvres, which are clev-<br/>
er, but badly disguised European influence.<br/>
Being a man of spirit and resolution, de-<br/>
voted to his work, Admiral Grandiere, a<br/>
mongst other combinations of assuring the<br/>
stability of our establishment, adopted the<br/>
following resolution. To recognise tho<br/>
independence of Cambodia, and establish<br/>
her authority by treating her as an ally,<br/>
and by the efficacy of our aid rendering her<br/>
independent without other protection. The<br/>
occasion for adopting this policy soon oc-<br/>
curred.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A resident of Cambodia who had com-<br/>
mitted an offence against that state, took<br/>
refuge in our territory. The Minister of<br/>
the King of Siam, who had no business to<br/>
interfere, claimed the extradition of the of-<br/>
fender. This was refused on tho plea that<br/>
we did not recognise the protectorate,<br/>
which the King of Siam arrogated over<br/>
Cambodia, and further we considered Cam-<br/>
bodia being in our own Frontiers was in-<br/>
dependent, and that she should continue<br/>
to be interposed between our territory and<br/>
Siam The Annamite Government by the<br/>
cession of the three provinces of Lower<br/>
Cochin China, had also transferred to us all<br/>
its rights, amongst which was the sover-<br/>
eignty of Cambodia, which had existed<br/>
for centuries, expressly for the security of<br/>
the three provinces, and our interest as well<br/>
as our honor allowed of no violation. In<br/>
adapting this language Admiral Grandiere<br/>
had a double object in view, to put down<br/>
the ambition of the Court of Bangkok, and<br/>
to elevate tho King of Cambodia from his<br/>
state of subjection, and in inspiring him<br/>
with a desire of an intimate alliance with<br/>
France. In this his expectations were not<br/>
deceived.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as the King of Cambodia know<br/>
of our friendly intentions, and that his in-<br/>
dependence had been assured, he sent the<br/>
Bishop of Cambodia, Mons. Miche to our<br/>
Gov. expressing his desire to confer with<br/>
him and hoping soon to see our flag floating<br/>
on the waters of Cambodia expelling piracy,<br/>
and sustaining his authority against the<br/>
incessant pressure under which he was held<br/>
by the Siamese and Annamites. Admiral<br/>
Grandiere hastened to Udong to receive<br/>
these overtures, and arrived there just as<br/>
an Anuamito Gen. had come to summons<br/>
the king to pay the usual tribute. This<br/>
circumstance made the King more anxious<br/>
to ally himself with the French, the nego-<br/>
tiations were not long, and by the aid of<br/>
M. Michie, the Admiral signed a convention<br/>
by which lie accepted the offers of the King<br/>
of Cambodia to place his kingdom under<br/>
the protectorate of France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This act may become a source of grave<br/>
difficulties. But was it not necessary! Was<br/>
it not an inevitable consequence of our<br/>
position ? The brave Admiral who decided<br/>
to take the responsibility of the complica-<br/>
tions which might arise from this act, did<br/>
so because our uncontested ascendency in<br/>
Cambodia was a condition indispensible<br/>
for our establishment in Cochin China. It<br/>
was in fact an imporious necessity for us to<br/>
secure our new possessions on the North<br/>
with a sure ally, thereby freeing our milit-<br/>
ary forces and leaving them at our dispos-<br/>
al either to overlook other frontiers, or to<br/>
keep in order the Annamites who were<br/>
more warlike than submissive, and who<br/>
were always ready to dispute the conquer-<br/>
ed provinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cambodia supplied us with 7 or 8000<br/>
bullocks for our troops, and from its great<br/>
lake the exportation of salted and dried<br/>
fish will be considerable, and when her re-<br/>
sources are developed it will be by her riv-<br/>
ers that the produce will feed the commerce<br/>
of Saigon. Had Admiral Grandiere hesit-<br/>
ated in securing these commercial advant-<br/>
ages, they would have been lost to us and<br/>
the commerce of our establishment would<br/>
have had to go by the canals of Ha-tien<br/>
and Bassai; this would have been the ruin<br/>
of our new possessions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When this negotiation was terminated it<br/>
raised on the part of the Government of<br/>
Siam the most lively complaints. The<br/>
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bangkok,<br/>
wrote to Admiral Grandiere informing him<br/>
that the viceroy of Cambodia, although he<br/>
was sovereign of that country, was only a<br/>
functionary appointed by the Siamese Gov-<br/>
ernment, and that he was under constraint<br/>
when he signed the convention with the<br/>
Gov. of Saigon. The Siamese Minister ut-<br/>
tered loud complaints and expressed great<br/>
astonishment that no notice had been given<br/>
him of the intention of the French repre-<br/>
sentative to recognize the independence of<br/>
Cambodia, inasmuch as this proceeding was<br/>
contrary to the assurances given by the<br/>
Minister for Foreign Affairs of France to<br/>
the Siamese Ambassador, in words which<br/>
authorized him to consider that the boun-<br/>
daries of Lower Cochin China, and that of<br/>
the Kingdom of Siam, would be settled<br/>
direct with the Government of Bangkok.<br/>
Without entering into any explanation of<br/>
what had been done, our Government an-<br/>
swered, that notwithstanding their obliga-<br/>
tions to Siam, on the one hand, and to<br/>
France and the Court of Hue on the other,<br/>
the independence and autonomy of Cam-<br/>
bodia could not be legally contested, and<br/>
in consequence we had a right to treat with<br/>
that Power without consulting the Govern-<br/>
ment of Siam. And that with respect to<br/>
the constraint on the King of Cambodia,<br/>
Admiral Grandiere denies the assertion. In<br/>
the negotiation in which he was engaged<br/>
his honorable character, together with the<br/>
intervention of the Bishop of Cambodia,<br/>
are sufficient guarantees for the honesty of<br/>
that Convention. In the month of Nov.<br/>
1863 the minister of the Navy sent him reg-<br/>
ular powers, and special instructions from<br/>
the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make the<br/>
negotiation definitive with the King of<br/>
Cambodia, and in the mean time prepar-<br/>
atory to executing the treaty, a depot of<br/>
coal was made at Nam-Van, where the<br/>
four ways meet, at a commanding position<br/>
of the river and where the greatest traffic<br/>
exists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was not however enough, it became<br/>
necessary to take advantage of our novel<br/>
position. We had two ways of developing<br/>
the resources of this country, now become<br/>
French, by colonization and by a judicious<br/>
administration, those being both power-<br/>
ful and necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
France is characterized by her adminis-<br/>
tration, she has a genius for conceiving and<br/>
organising, and carries with her a spirit of<br/>
order, content, and regularity, and proba-<br/>
bly in no time has this been more pro-<br/>
minent than in our establishment in Cochin<br/>
China. Our naval officers have most hon-<br/>
orably laid aside their military habits, and<br/>
taken civil duties upon them which circum-<br/>
stances required, following the example<br/>
given them by the Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prudence required the greatest manage-<br/>
ment, for to have made sudden changes,<br/>
although it were for the good of the inhab-<br/>
itants, would have been destructive to<br/>
our well being, and have made the natives<br/>
oppressed. The several Governors of<br/>
Saigon saw this and therefore adopted the<br/>
form of administration they found there,<br/>
they have not yet had any cause to change<br/>
their opinions respecting the customs of<br/>
the Annamites. The organization of Lower<br/>
Cochin China is in fact similar to that of<br/>
France, the frame work is nearly alike, and<br/>
the agency adopted, is similar to those func-<br/>
tionaries who fill corresponding employ-<br/>
ments there.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thanks to the experience gained it<br/>
Algiers, we have escaped another danger,<br/>
by having renounced the system of placing<br/>
all authority exclusively in French hands,<br/>
we have shared it with those who have<br/>
sincerely taken our part, and have chosen<br/>
many of the natives, thus the power of the<br/>
Governor commandant, instead of Viceroy,<br/>
is exercised by Annamite Administrators,<br/>
who have retained the titles and authority<br/>
which they held under the Government of<br/>
Tu-duc. They are still called phu and huyen,<br/>
and still continue to be judges, to collect<br/>
customs, and to maintain the public peace<br/>
in their divisions. They work under the<br/>
direction and control of the commandants<br/>
of Provinces. All officers of our army, ac-<br/>
cording to the extent of territory under<br/>
them, have the rank of Prefect or Sub-Pre-<br/>
fect. Those superior officers are assisted<br/>
by two Inspectors one having charge of<br/>
Native, the other of Foreign affairs. The<br/>
system that would have excluded public<br/>
functions from the natives, not only would<br/>
have been opposed by the population,<br/>
but would also have had the inconvenience<br/>
of having a large number of Europeans,<br/>
who had to act with promptitude, in a<br/>
country new and strange to them, having<br/>
the aid of interpreters and others, whose<br/>
assistance would annihilate their authority.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We wisely abstained from touching the<br/>
Annamite communities or their municipal<br/>
franchises, allowing them to carry out their<br/>
local interests, and raised them in their<br/>
own opinions, thus sparing them the humili-<br/>
ating thought of being under strangers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A modification however was made in a<br/>
law which existed before our occupation;<br/>
the Mayor was nominated by the director<br/>
of the Nation, approved of by the Governor<br/>
and presented by the Notables. He kept<br/>
under his control a list of the Notables,<br/>
which included the Registration of the pro-<br/>
prietors of the Parish who were subject to<br/>
the capitation tax. Those who were not<br/>
included, are exempt and pay in service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This tax has now been made on individ-<br/>
uals according to the value of the land<br/>
cultivated, the number of soldiers re-<br/>
quired, and the services rendered, which is<br/>
fixed by the central authority, and the full<br/>
amount of the tax is guaranteed by each<br/>
Parish, who are responsible for all wrong<br/>
acts committed within their control. This<br/>
system which originates from those of the<br/>
Annamites, has the merit of lightening our<br/>
administration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These considerate proceedings being car-<br/>
ried out with ability, and personal restraint,<br/>
we have succeeded in establishing the<br/>
French character among the Cochin Chi-<br/>
nese, and it is due to Admiral Gandiere<br/>
that these results have been obtained. One<br/>
of his first acts was to guarantee Annamite<br/>
freehold on the basis of French laws, this<br/>
measure gives the proprietor a security<br/>
which he had not before when he was only<br/>
tenant to the King. But judging from the<br/>
Dutch system in Java, and to avoid an-<br/>
other evil, the Admiral has reserved the<br/>
right of the natives to alienate their lands to<br/>
Europeans. This restriction is to prevent<br/>
the Annamites from being victims to spec-<br/>
ulating and unscrupulous strangers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To suppress piracy which is a profession<br/>
in Cochin China, the Admiral in conformity<br/>
to an Annamite law, has a general register<br/>
of the vessels including the names of all the<br/>
men afloat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two acts, above all others, ought to give<br/>
the natives an idea of the superiority of<br/>
our civilization. The two vices which do<br/>
most mischief to the population, opium and<br/>
gambling, are under restrictions, but not<br/>
being able absolutely to prevent either<br/>
gambling or the traffic in opium, the Gov-<br/>
ernment of Saigon has termed them out<br/>
under severe restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Admiral Gandiere has now made his<br/>
first budget, which is drawn up on the ba-<br/>
sis of those made by our other colonies, it<br/>
only shows the expenses of the local ad-<br/>
ministration, of the military service, and<br/>
of the Naval divisions remaining as a Col-<br/>
onial expense. We see with satisfaction<br/>
by this document that already the receipt<br/>
are equal to the expenditure, they amount<br/>
to three millions of francs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In rendering justice to the zeal and intel-<br/>
ligence of our administration, we neverthe-<br/>
less think that matters cannot remain long<br/>
as they are. It ought to give up the mil-<br/>
itary character and become civil. It is not<br/>
our wish to say that the Government of<br/>
French Cochin China should be confided<br/>
to a non military rule, for some time yet our<br/>
sovereignty ought to be in the hands of a<br/>
General officer, but it is not the same<br/>
with regard to the higher officers, we would<br/>
escape great embarrassments if we could<br/>
(like the Dutch at Java) govern our new<br/>
subjects by the aid of their chiefs, but un-<br/>
fortunately the Mandarins have remained<br/>
attached to the Government of Hue, and<br/>
identify themselves with its politics. All<br/>
that we could do we were unable to prevent<br/>
it. We must therefore replace these vacant<br/>
posts by persons attached to us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One system proposed which has the<br/>
merit of assimilating to the Annamite or-<br/>
ganisation, is to bring from France, active<br/>
and intelligent young men, to whom the<br/>
administration shall be open, after a time<br/>
and they having passed an examination<br/>
proving that they are capable of the duties<br/>
of Mandarins, they must have learned the<br/>
Annamite language, which is said to be<br/>
simple, and which may soon be learned af-<br/>
ter the Latin writing has replaced that of<br/>
the native.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Candidate will also have to study<br/>
judicial functions, and the Annamite Code<br/>
of Laws, which is written in the Chinese<br/>
character and is a constant study to the<br/>
learned and to the Mandarins, who in their<br/>
retreat from our troops carried them away<br/>
that they might not be contaminated. But<br/>
after have been found, and our Governors<br/>
are revising them, assimilating them in<br/>
their different parts, and they have been<br/>
printed in French at Saigon and in Chinese<br/>
at Canton, with explanations and coments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The introduction of civil officers in the<br/>
higher parts of the administration would<br/>
also have another advantage, which would<br/>
not but have a great political influence. If<br/>
we could efface from the population, the<br/>
remembrance of their being a conquered<br/>
people which they feel, we ought to<br/>
withdraw all signs of warfare and keep<br/>
our troops for the defence of the country<br/>
and prudently mix native soldiers for duties<br/>
in the interior. We desire to pursue a<br/>
conciliatory course, but notwithstanding<br/>
the severest discipline, the soldiers who<br/>
conquered the country, are considered by<br/>
the natives in a high position, they act as<br/>
masters and seldom mix with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our religion may also attach to us the<br/>
Annamites who appear disposed (as it is<br/>
seen) to receive Christian doctrine, but<br/>
this duty ought to be confided to the most<br/>
prudent and pure.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_5_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r02"><b>Diary.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r02"><b>June 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r02">7th Siamese Moon 1227.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r02">5th Chinese do 4502.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r178">
        <p class="r02">Moon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">First Quarter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">1d.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">3h.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">4m.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">P.M.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Full Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">P.M.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Last Quarter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">35</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">P.M.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">New Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">P.M.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r179">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r02">Moon Sets</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r02">Th.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Morn</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Fr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">0</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Sat.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">0</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">49</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">S.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">M.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Tu.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">48</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">W.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">32</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Th.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Fr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Sat.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r02">Rises</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">S.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">M.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">Tu.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r02">W.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">48</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Th.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r02">36</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gambling Mania.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have not known a time when the<br/>
gambling mania was so rife among the na-<br/>
tives, and laborers so scarce as at present.<br/>
One would suppose that at a time like this<br/>
when there is no business doing, the rice<br/>
mills silent, and other places of employment<br/>
among the European community closed, that<br/>
laborers would be abundant. Such how-<br/>
ever does not appear to be the case. The<br/>
time was that when we needed a man for a<br/>
short time to go in the boat, or to do a<br/>
small job of work, we had but to send out<br/>
and call one; but now we most frequently<br/>
call in vain. Even a common cooly or<br/>
boatman who can at all be trusted can scar-<br/>
cely be had for any wages. When we come<br/>
to inquire the cause, the only one we can<br/>
discover is, that they have all become des-<br/>
perate and have taken to gambling. The<br/>
gambling establishment are all full to over-<br/>
flowing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many of those who formerly appeared to<br/>
be steady quiet laborers have also been<br/>
carried into the vortex. There is a story<br/>
among them to the effect that some priest<br/>
of great wisdom, somewhere within the<br/>
limits of the city, has been fortunate en-<br/>
ough to discover a kind of oil, which if ap-<br/>
plied to the dice enables the player to see<br/>
the die before it is thrown, and that he is<br/>
now driving a good business by selling the<br/>
oil. We do not vouch for the truth of this<br/>
story, but give it as we got it. Could such<br/>
a discovery is made hence, the happy dis-<br/>
covery would be one a fairer way to wealth<br/>
than some of the oil speculators in the<br/>
United States. It is certain, however that thi<br/>
gambling mania has seldom been known<br/>
to prevail to such an alarming extent as at<br/>
present. The result is that vice of every<br/>
kind prevails in proportion. In this gam-<br/>
bling no one but the principle of the estab-<br/>
lshment makes anything, and those who<br/>
frequent such establishments soon find them-<br/>
selves hopelessly in debt. Thy must live by<br/>
some means, and the result is that they re-<br/>
sort to stealing. There have been more lit-<br/>
tle petty thefts around within the last few<br/>
months than we have seen in four years be-<br/>
fore. Some rather daring robberies have<br/>
been committed, and also attempts made<br/>
upon the life even of Europeans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If this state of things is likely to contin-<br/>
ue It behooves foreigners to devise some<br/>
means of protection. The present system<br/>
of police whilst perhaps it is fulfilling all it<br/>
was intended to do by the native authorities,<br/>
is of little or no benefit to the foreign com-<br/>
munity. The Siamese government is, it is<br/>
true, owe foreigners protection, but it is<br/>
perhaps asking too much to request them<br/>
to establish a special police for the Euro-<br/>
pean quarter. The scattered situation too of<br/>
the foreign residences renders this course<br/>
the more difficult. Police arrangements too<br/>
are generally a municipal affair having lit-<br/>
tle or no connection with the general gov-<br/>
ernment. The municipal arrangements<br/>
here however amount to nothing and any<br/>
thing that is done must be done by the<br/>
government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It might be well therefore to call a meet-<br/>
Ing of the foreign community to take the<br/>
matter into consideration, and to devise<br/>
some effectual means of protection. Hav-<br/>
ing once decided what is best to be done,<br/>
we think the Siamese government would<br/>
willingly give any assistance necessary. At<br/>
the same time we think the government<br/>
should try to do something toward breaking<br/>
up those haunts of wickedness which are<br/>
the producers of thieves and robbers. From<br/>
all appearance thy are increasing rapidly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gambling invariably leads to drunken-<br/>
ness, and theft, and the habit once acquired<br/>
it destroys every disposition for honest la-<br/>
bor. By thus encouraging idleness and<br/>
vice this people are nurturing an enemy<br/>
within, far more dangerous than any they<br/>
have yet had to fear from without. In<br/>
Pennsylvania and some other parts of the<br/>
United States, if a person is found with-<br/>
out any visible means of obtaining a liveli-<br/>
hood he is brought before a magistrate and<br/>
made to give an account of himself, and if<br/>
he fails to do this he is taken care of by<br/>
the authorities. If some such proceedings<br/>
were instituted by the Siamese, and all<br/>
those lazy worthless fellows who do nothing<br/>
but frequent gambling establishments, were<br/>
compelled to go and work in the new canal<br/>
or some other public work, it would be ben-<br/>
eficial to the country, and the life and<br/>
property of all would be much more<br/>
secure. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since the above has been in type we<br/>
learn upon good authority, that His Ma-<br/>
jesty has determined to establish a separate<br/>
Police force on the New Road.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A TOUR TO THE HOT SPRINGS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear that there are only two<br/>
Hot springs in Siam known to Europeans. <br/>
One of them is on the eastern side of the<br/>
Gulf of Siam, about 12 miles S. E. from<br/>
Anghin, the other on the western side of<br/>
the Gulf about 45 miles from the city of Pet-<br/>
chaburee. It is a tour to the latter made<br/>
in the month of March 1865 of which I<br/>
purpose to give some account in this and<br/>
subsequent numbers of this Journal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our party was composed of two Euro-<br/>
pean merchants, our American merchant,<br/>
and two American missionaries. As the<br/>
place could not be reached or even ap-<br/>
proached by any river or canal, which are<br/>
the common channels of communication in<br/>
Siam, we had to plan for an "Overland"<br/>
route, and being quite an uncommon pro-<br/>
cedure for this country, was all the more<br/>
exciting both in the anticipation and realiz-<br/>
ation. And as our destination was to a<br/>
place in the parched and "howling wilder-<br/>
ness" far away from all human habitations, it<br/>
became necessary to provide food and drink<br/>
for a three day's journey, as well as some<br/>
other comforts for an encampment in the<br/>
woods at least for two nights. To this end we<br/>
hired two ox carts and filled them quite full of<br/>
supplies for the singular Expedition, and<br/>
sent them off at 2 o'clock P. M. twelve<br/>
hours before the time of our starting, charg-<br/>
ing the steward and teamsters to be sure<br/>
of reaching a certain place 20 miles distant<br/>
in time to have our breakfast ready on our<br/>
arrival thither the next morning at 8 o'clock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We provided ourselves with each a fine<br/>
pony from the excellent livery stable of the<br/>
Deputy Governor Pra-Palat, who, though<br/>
at the time absent on a visit to Bangkok,<br/>
did not fail to leave matters so that all our<br/>
wants should be promptly supplied. We<br/>
had a Siamese guide mounted on a beast so<br/>
small that some of us gifted with uncom-<br/>
monly long legs, would have had to flex<br/>
them to a right angle to clear the ground,<br/>
and would have tried to walk with one foot<br/>
and ride with the other. The creature<br/>
was so emaciated that it seemed prepos-<br/>
terous to think of making him perform the<br/>
journey, especially as a leader. His endur-<br/>
ance was marvellous. We had also con-<br/>
nected with us a hostler general to take<br/>
the entire charge of the horses whenever we<br/>
should stop. He rode a respectable pony.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_6_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Leaving our lodgings at Petchaburee at<br/>
3 o'clock A. M. by a charming moonlight,<br/>
we rode up the king's high-way to the foot<br/>
of Palace Mount. Then passing a little<br/>
way to the right, close to its northern base,<br/>
we took a north westerly direction by foot<br/>
paths over sea-level fields from which pad-<br/>
dy had been cut two months before, beau-<br/>
tifully studded with palmyra trees, stand-<br/>
ing in mild majesty and charming disorder<br/>
all over them to the number of at least six<br/>
to every square acre. It was quite enchant-<br/>
ing to ride among them in the magnificent<br/>
moonlight. Every ten or fifteen rods our<br/>
ponies had to leap or stumble over a little<br/>
embankment made for confining the water<br/>
at certain seasons in the plats for the benefit<br/>
of the growing rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first village of any consequence that<br/>
we came to was ———— about 5 miles from<br/>
P, occupied exclusively by Laos. Here the<br/>
Chief of the tribe resides, and in his house<br/>
the Prot. Missionaries of Petchaburee oc-<br/>
casionally hold meetings on moon light<br/>
evenings. The next place of importance<br/>
was also a Laos village about 8 miles dis-<br/>
tant called Hooah-tap'an. Here was a<br/>
temple which the king sometimes honors<br/>
by personal visitations when occupying his<br/>
mountain palace. A little beyond this place<br/>
the charming palmyra groves nearly all left<br/>
us, and we had to traverse a vast tract of the<br/>
openest land, with scarcely a tree to be<br/>
seen upon it. After this we entered upon<br/>
a tract of slightly elevated country, it be-<br/>
ing a gentle acclivity towards dark moun-<br/>
tains far ahead. This was studded with<br/>
clumps of the slender bamboo, then leafless<br/>
in their fall season, and a few other leafless<br/>
trees and shrubs, together with here and<br/>
there a tree yet clad in its green livery to<br/>
break pleasantly the monotony of an ap-<br/>
parently winter forest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Presently our road became gravelly and<br/>
then stony, bearing many marks of having<br/>
been underlaid by an eruption from a vol-<br/>
canic crater. Anon we came into mountain<br/>
gorges, going up hill and down hill, and<br/>
into deep ravines, and along almost impas-<br/>
sible ruts made by water in the wet season<br/>
rushing along the cart tracks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing these, we came into a forest of<br/>
the Resin tree which seems to be quite ex-<br/>
elusive in its occupancy. The trees are<br/>
mostly small, the larger ones having been<br/>
culled out for house-posts. This forest re-<br/>
minded us strongly of the shrub oak woods<br/>
we had been accustomed to in our boyhood.<br/>
There was scarcely any under brush among<br/>
them, and very few leaves on the ground,<br/>
although the trees had been stripped of all<br/>
their foliage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is from this Mei-teng-rang tree, as it<br/>
is called, that the Resin of Siam is pro-<br/>
cured. It exudes in a plastic state from<br/>
cracks and crevices on the body and limbs<br/>
of the tree, and then, becoming dry and<br/>
brittle, hangs pendent like isicles from the<br/>
places of their origin. It is because these<br/>
trees are so thoroughly imbued with this<br/>
resinous substance that house-posts made<br/>
of them are in the greatest repute. The<br/>
hearts of them are almost literally indestruc-<br/>
tible by simply water and air whether out or<br/>
in the ground.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the Mei-teng-range woods we came<br/>
into another tract of the slender bamboos<br/>
beautifully arranged in clumps of a hundred<br/>
or more trees each, within a circumference<br/>
of twelve feet, being on an average twenty<br/>
feet high, with open and clean spaces be-<br/>
tween the clumps. Even the leafless clus-<br/>
tres were charming to behold. How much<br/>
more so when in full foliage!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing this tract, we were next intro-<br/>
duced into dense forests of lofty timber the<br/>
beginning of the “howling wilderness,” The<br/>
Merchants had their guns along, and were<br/>
prepared, as they thought, for the pleasure<br/>
of hunting wild fowl, peacocks, deer, and<br/>
even leopards and tigers. They had great<br/>
pleasure in the preparation and anticipation<br/>
but scarcely none in the realization. Their<br/>
guns, being suspended on their backs, were<br/>
found to be cumbrous and almost intolerably<br/>
burdensome appendages on horse back. We<br/>
heard squirrels and peacocks in the night<br/>
time, but could not see them. After day-<br/>
break a wild fowl crossed our path and one of<br/>
the gentlemen dismounted to hunt for it,<br/>
but it was not to be found. A quadruped<br/>
of somewhat fearful dimensions was seen to<br/>
run into the thicket, and the man a head<br/>
cried out A leopard! a leopard! which<br/>
quite startled those of us in the rear. But<br/>
it proved to be only a deer. No shot could<br/>
be got at her as our hunters were too slow<br/>
for her fleetness. An innocent and frolic-<br/>
some monkey tempted our marksmen to try<br/>
their skill at a shot; but its face looked so<br/>
much like a human being, they thought it<br/>
best to let the creature prolong its life un-<br/>
harmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From our first setting out, the guide gave<br/>
us the names of four principal places as way-<br/>
reliefs to our breakfasting station, supposed<br/>
to be about equally distant from each other.<br/>
These were Hooa-Tap'an, Hooa-na, P'oot-<br/>
t'a-kop and Ta-kraw. The first was nam-<br/>
ed in passing. The second was at the head<br/>
of the paddy-fields and hence its name.<br/>
This we reached a little before day break and<br/>
then merged into the woods. The third<br/>
we made at 7 o'clock and found it only a<br/>
sala in a small opening in the wilderness.<br/>
The fourth was the twenty mile station at<br/>
which it was appointed that we should<br/>
breakfast and rest untill the evening-cool<br/>
of the day. This we reached at 7¾. glad<br/>
enough to dismount and find small ponds of<br/>
cold water in the channel of a rivulet nearly<br/>
dry, in which we could bathe. It was a dense<br/>
forest of the loftiest trees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here we found our two ox carts together<br/>
with their six or eight attendant servants.<br/>
Our commissary had been there barely long<br/>
enough to begin his arrangements for our<br/>
breakfast. A dish of pork and potatoes<br/>
was presently cooked, a "few small fishes"<br/>
broiled, rice boiled, currie made, tea and<br/>
coffee etc. prepared, enough to begin with.<br/>
Then spreading a clean cream colored mat<br/>
on the ground, we ordered this extempor-<br/>
ized table to be loaded with the bounties<br/>
of God, which the two carts had brought<br/>
for us, and then sitting down Turk fashion<br/>
on the borders of it, and craving a blessing<br/>
from our heavenly Father, we began our<br/>
repast. The breakfast was doubly relished<br/>
for its coming to us after a ride of 20 miles,<br/>
served in woods composed of primitive trees<br/>
magnificent in height, with monkeys for<br/>
spectators, and birds of unaccustomed plu-<br/>
mage and note to sing us their morning dit-<br/>
ties. Would that I could transcribe their<br/>
songs. The notes of some of them were<br/>
something like kooawoo-attawoo, some<br/>
kooakoo kooahoo some koowara hoowara,<br/>
others kooppapook, and one sang hippoo-<br/>
hill hippoohill, reminding us most pleasant-<br/>
ly of boyhood days, when we had heard<br/>
in our own father-woodlands the never-to-<br/>
be-forgotten notes, whippoor-will glass me<br/>
honey.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir- Observing in your issue of May<br/>
16th, a few lines headed "A Card." This<br/>
article contains a statement which is wholly<br/>
untrue. "What are the Police doing."<br/>
Truly, this article was written by Mr. T.<br/>
W. Smith, on a Sunday, composed and<br/>
Printed in the Daily Times by me, on the<br/>
same night. Therefore, Mr. J. H. Chandler<br/>
did not see this article until after<br/>
it had appeared in print, neither was it<br/>
approved of by Mr. Chandler, as it may be<br/>
recollected, the same was contradicted by<br/>
Mr. Chandler, on the following day.<br/>
Hopin[g] this will prove more satisfactory to<br/>
the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I remain,
Yours faithfully
CHARLES HAINES.
Late foreman of Siam Times.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok,<br/>
May, 18th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_7_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 13th TO 28th MAY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larcency. of two boxes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do      "    trousers.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do      "    fowls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do      "    tools.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt of Tls 120.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Highway robbery.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slaves.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Drunkenness.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Robbery of Gold valued at Tls 420.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Trespass.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LAUS DEO!
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On hearing the bellringing for the Constitutional<br/>
Amendment abolishing slavery in United States!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent3 >}}It is done!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Clang of bell and roar of gun<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Send the tidings up and down.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}How the bellfires rock and reel,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}How the great guns, peal on peal,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Fling the joy from town to town!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Ring O bells!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Every stroke exulting tells<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of the burial-hour of crime.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Loud and long that all may hear,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Ring for every listening ear<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of Eternity and Time!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Let us kneel:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}God's own voice is in that peal,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And this spot is holy ground.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Lord forgive us! What are we,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That our eyes this glory see,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That our ears have heard the sound!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}For the Lord<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On the whirlwind is abroad;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the earthquake He has spoken:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}He has smitten with His thunder<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The iron walls asunder,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the gates of brass are broken!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Loud and long,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Lift the old exulting song;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Sing with Miriam by the sea:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}He hath cast the mighty down;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Horse and rider sink and drown;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He hath triumphed gloriously!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Did we dare<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In our agony of prayer<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ask for more than He has done!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}When was ever His right hand<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Over any time or land<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Stretched as now beneath the sun!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}How they pale,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Ancient myths and sang, and tale,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In this wonder of our days,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}When the cruel rod of war<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Blossoms white with righteous law;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the wrath of man is praise!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Blotted out!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}All within and all about<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Shall a fresher life begins;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Freer breathe the universe<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}As it rolls it heavy curse<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On the dead and buried sin!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}It is done!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In the circuit of the sun<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Shall the sound thereof go forth.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It shall bid the sad rejoice,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It shall give the dumb a voice,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It shall belt with joy the earth!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Ring and swing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bells of joy! on morning's wing<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Send the song of praise abroad;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With the sound of broken chains<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Tell the nations that He reigns<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who alone is Lord and God!<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. G. Whittier
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Duplicity
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Kite, who had kept sailing in the air<br/>
for many days near a dove cote, made <br/>
a stoop at several Pigeons, but all to no<br/>
purpose, (for they were too nimble for <br/>
him,) at last he had resource to stratagem and <br/>
took his opportunity one day, to make a <br/>
declaration to them, in which he set forth <br/>
his own just and good intentions, who had <br/>
nothing more at heart, than the defence <br/>
and protection of the Pigeons in their an- <br/>
chent rights and liberties, and how concern- <br/>
ed he was at their fears and jealousies of<br/>
a foreign invasion; especially their unjust <br/>
and unreasonable suspicions of himself, as<br/>
if lie intended, by force of arms, to break <br/>
in upon their constitution, and erect a <br/>
tyrannical government over them. To pre- <br/>
vent all this, and thoroughly to quiet their <br/>
minds, he thought proper to propose to them <br/>
such terms of alliance and articles of peace <br/>
as might for ever cement a good understand- <br/>
ing betwixt them; the principal of which <br/>
was, that they should accept of him for <br/>
their king, and invest him with all kingly <br/>
privilege and prerogative over them. The <br/>
poor simple Pigeons consented; the Kite<br/>
took the coronation oath after a very solemn <br/>
manner, on his part, and the doves the <br/>
oaths of allegiance and fidelity on theirs. <br/>
But much time had not passed over their <br/>
heads, before the good Kite pretended that <br/>
it was part of his prerogative to devour a <br/>
Pigeon whenever he pleased. And this, <br/>
he was now contended to do himself only, <br/>
but instructed the rest of the royal family <br/>
in the same kingly art of government. The <br/>
Pigeons, reduced to this miserable condi- <br/>
tion, said one to the other, Ah! we deserv- <br/>
ed no better! Why did we let him come in? 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Debts of the States.-—The following <br/>
are the debts of several of the principal <br/>
States of the Union, according to the last<br/>
official reports:-—New York, $28,720,724 ;<br/>
Pennsylvania, $39,379,003 ; Massachusetts,<br/>
$22,893,072; Ohio $13,570,751 ; Illinois,<br/>
$11,178,314 ; Maine, $5,137,500 ; Connect-<br/>
icut, $5,000,000; Michigan, $3,451,129;<br/>
Wisconsin, $2,500,000 ; Vermont, $1,042- <br/>
845.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Handsome Gift.-—The gift of $51,<br/>
000 in government bonds to Vice Admiral<br/>
Farragut has been completed, by placing the<br/>
bonds in his hands, and transmitting to him<br/>
the letter of presentation, inclosed in a<br/>
beautiful blue morocco case, lined with<br/>
white and red.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An English Gun.-—The Armstrong<br/>
gun which was captured at Fort Fisher was<br/>
one which was presented by the manufact-<br/>
urer, Sir William Armstrong, to Jeff. Davis.<br/>
A soldier, describing it, says it "is, by all<br/>
odds, the handsomest gun I ever saw, being<br/>
entirely of twist wrought iron, and mounted<br/>
on a magnificent solid mahogany carriage."<br/>
It will be sent to West Point as a trophy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_7_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r16e">
        <p class="r01"><b>PRICE CURRENT.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">White Superior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">@ Tls.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">@ Tls. 12¾ pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>12<span class="s1">⅜</span><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>11¾<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>11¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">@ Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">8¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">8¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 9½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">3 @ 4 pl. Tic. 3½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 3¼</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 3<span class="s1">⅛</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">6 @ 7 pl. Tic. 2¾<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">7 @ 8 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Supplies coming forward.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Scarce @ Tls. 10½ Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">@ Tic. 150 @ 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">9 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">Horns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">10 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">10½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 180 @ 200.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 130 @ 150 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gambege</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 47 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 115 @ 120 @ Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sticlac</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 14 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">No.2 Tic. 12¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Ivery</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 326 - 346 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cardamums</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 183 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 22¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Tic 75 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Laos, Tic 260,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">Cochin Tic. 710 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gold leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Ansing Tic. 16 Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r172">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 2¼ @ 2¾ cent premium.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kyam Ali deceased, Notice is hereby<br/>
given, that all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands against the estate<br/>
of Kyam Ali, Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th of February<br/>
last, intestate, are hereby required to send<br/>
the particulars in writing of their claims to<br/>
the undersigned the Administrator, on or<br/>
before the 31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said administrator<br/>
will proceed to distribute the estate and<br/>
effects of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having regard only<br/>
to such claims of which he shall then have<br/>
had notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dated at the British Consulate
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Siam. March 14th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(s.d.) Thomas George Knox
H. B. M. Consul
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"Come and See Me"—Never take<br/>
"come and see me" as a phrase meant in<br/>
earnest, unless it is accompanied with a<br/>
date. An invitation without "circum-<br/>
stance" is no invitation at all. Depend<br/>
upon it, if any gentleman or lady desire<br/>
your company, he or she will appoint a<br/>
time for your visit. "Call on me when you<br/>
can make it convenient," "drop in as you<br/>
are passing," make us a visit whenever you<br/>
have a hour or two to spare," are social<br/>
indefinitisms by which men of the world<br/>
understand that they are not expected to<br/>
do the things requested. When people<br/>
wish to be cheaply polite, there is nothing<br/>
like this kind of vagueness. The com-<br/>
plimentary small change of society should<br/>
always be taken at a large discount. It is<br/>
never worth its face, or anything like it.<br/>
Yet it is a convenient medium of exchange<br/>
for all that, and heavy debts of gratitude<br/>
that ought to be repaid in better coin, are<br/>
often paid with it. People who have more<br/>
polish than principle use it lavishly—plain,<br/>
blunt, honest men, sparingly, or not at all.<br/>
Whoever makes a friendly visit to a fash-<br/>
ionable house on the strength of such a<br/>
"Come and see me," will be likely enough<br/>
to find that the family circle which he has<br/>
dropped into by request is as ungenial as<br/>
the arctic circle, and to leave it with a<br/>
chilly feeling about the heart that will<br/>
prevent him from venturing into the same<br/>
high latitude thereafter. But when a<br/>
whole souled fellow, whom you know to be<br/>
your friend, grasps you vigorously by the<br/>
hand and says: "Come and dine with me<br/>
to-day—dinner on the table at 5 o'clock<br/>
—be sure to come, we shall expect you"<br/>
—go if you can, and you will be all the<br/>
better for it, both in mind and body. One<br/>
likes to meet friends at the hospitable<br/>
board—one's own or their's, it matters not<br/>
which—but a nod in the street is all<br/>
sufficient from a fashionable acquaintance.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A letter from Saigon of Jan. 12th, in the<br/>
Patrie, says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The position of the settlement in Low-<br/>
er Cochin China is excellent. The year<br/>
which has just come to a close is the first<br/>
that has given to the colony twelve months<br/>
of uninterrupted tranquility. This inter-<br/>
val has not failed to be turned to good ac-<br/>
count. The maritime arsenal of Saigon has<br/>
been constructed, and a repairing dock<br/>
made in the interior of the port. Besides<br/>
this, the artillery service and that of the<br/>
bridges and roads have given rise to im-<br/>
portant works. Twenty primary schools have<br/>
been founded for the purpose of teaching<br/>
the Annamite children the use of the Ro-<br/>
man letters. In three months 600 children<br/>
have learnt to read, and 300 to write. In<br/>
addition, a directory of the interior has<br/>
been created, and civil tribunals have been<br/>
inaugurated in the colony, which follow the<br/>
practice of the Code Napoleon, in civil and<br/>
commercial procedures, and criminal and<br/>
penal prosecution. Rear-Admiral de la Gran-<br/>
diere's departure for France is fixed for the<br/>
5th of March. He is to return to Saigon<br/>
in the month of July or August next. Dur-<br/>
ing his stay in Paris he will communicate<br/>
to the Government very useful and correct<br/>
information on the situation of Cochln Chi-<br/>
na."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Galignani's Messenger.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ONE OF THE WONDERS OF THE LAND.—-
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A writer for a Boston paper, who has visited<br/>
the great falls on the Snake river, the south-<br/>
ern fork of the Oregon, says: "The dis-<br/>
tance the whole volume of water falls in<br/>
one sheet is 200 feet. Above there is about<br/>
25 to 30 feet fall before it reaches the grand<br/>
fall. The width of the grand fall I should<br/>
judge to be about 2500 feet. I have visited<br/>
the Niagara many times, but this fall eclipses<br/>
it far. Four miles further above we found<br/>
another one of less note, where the water<br/>
divides into two parts, and falls a distance<br/>
of 167 feet. When the Pacific railroad is<br/>
completed this will become as fashionable<br/>
a visiting place as Niagara is now, with,<br/>
however, a wider range of curiosities to at-<br/>
tract the attention of visitors."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Law of Salvage.—-Judgment has
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
been recently pronounced in the case of the<br/>
Fusilier, which had been brought by ap-<br/>
peal before the Judicial Committee of the<br/>
Privy Council, and which raised an im-<br/>
portant question as to the liability of the<br/>
owners of cargo to contribute for salvage<br/>
services in the saving of the lives of pas-<br/>
sengers. The Court of Admiralty had de-<br/>
creed £2,200 as salvage. It was alleged<br/>
that passengers were not cargo, and did not<br/>
come within the Act of Parliament. Lord<br/>
Chelmsford pronounced the judgment of<br/>
their lordships. It was an important ques-<br/>
tion whether passengers were to be includ-<br/>
ed, and also whether the owners of cargo<br/>
were to contribute in the payment of the<br/>
sum awarded. Their lordships were of<br/>
opinion that on both grounds the Act in-<br/>
tended that passengers were included, and<br/>
the owners of a cargo liable. The appeal<br/>
would therefore be dismissed with costs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Weather.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The weather for the last fortnight has<br/>
been the most promising. Rain has fallen<br/>
abundantly in delightful showers. The<br/>
whole vegetable and animal creation has<br/>
awoke to a vigorous life. Rice producers<br/>
are full of hope and on the alert to get<br/>
ready for the planting. And Merchants<br/>
and all classes dependant on rice, are now<br/>
looking a hundred per cent more cheerful<br/>
than three weeks since.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Entertainment.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late visit to this city of TAN-KIM-<br/>
CHING, whom His Supreme Majesty had,<br/>
two or three years since, made Siamese Con-<br/>
sul in Singapore, appears to have been very<br/>
honorable to himself, as it was most agree-<br/>
ble to the King and his princes and nobles.<br/>
The title conferred upon him by His Majes-<br/>
ty is Prà-Pee t’ate-Panit-Siyam-P’ee-chit-<br/>
Pàkdee. He was honored by having several<br/>
audiences with His Majesty, and special in-<br/>
vitations to the residences of most of the no-<br/>
bility and Chinese merchants of Bangkok,<br/>
and was feasted sumptuously in many<br/>
places.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest parade made for him appears<br/>
to have been at the palace of His Excellency<br/>
Chow Phya Prà K'lang, Minister of Foreign<br/>
Affairs, and at the new and spacious man-<br/>
sion of Prà P'asée Sómbàt-Bawrìboon. At<br/>
both these places the feasting was conducted<br/>
partly in the style of European princes and<br/>
lords, and partly in the style of Chinese<br/>
rulers. We have good authority for say-<br/>
ing, that there were on each festival occas-<br/>
ion more than one hundred different dishes<br/>
served, not including the sweatmeats and<br/>
fruits, which where full seventy in kind.<br/>
When the guests had eaten at one table to a<br/>
degree of satisfaction, they arose from it<br/>
and engaged in chit chat, tea drinking, and<br/>
tobacco smoking, while the dishes were all<br/>
being removed to give place to others equally<br/>
numerous. When all things were ready they<br/>
were seated at the second table. Having<br/>
feasted a while they again arose to chat, to<br/>
drink, to smoke, and wait for the third table.<br/>
Thus did they feast and enjoy themselves<br/>
from the edge of the evening until 1 o'clock<br/>
in the morning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the P'râ kl'áng had the<br/>
Lion of the day honored, by the playing of<br/>
his fine band of native musicians, on "the<br/>
cornet, flute, harp, sackbat, psaltery, dulci-<br/>
mer and all kinds of music" indescribable.<br/>
And P'râ-pasée-Sômbât graced his festival<br/>
with Chinese music and theatrical perform-<br/>
ances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency, Chow Plya Sri Suri-<br/>
wôngs gave Pr'n-P'ee-tate-P'anit, the oc-<br/>
cupancy of his delightful garden palace, all<br/>
the time of his stay in the city, and had a<br/>
body of servants constantly devoted to the<br/>
care of supplying all his daily wants in re-<br/>
gard to board and lodging, and a fine boat<br/>
well manned placed at his command to con-<br/>
vey him wherever he wished to go.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were glad to learn that the Consul<br/>
for Siam, in Singapore, had been thus hon-<br/>
ored.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_9_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/indent1 >}}—-Light Infantry Movements. Agitating a cradle<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}-—Honesty is the best policy of insurance against<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}—-Mr. Lincoln said the other day that almost<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
with a baby in it.<br/>
fire in the next world.<br/>
every officer, whether entitled to a staff or not, had<br/>
four aides—promenade, lemonade, serenade and<br/>
gasconade.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r125">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MAY 16TH 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rda">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Leyner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Bentick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Young May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinsee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dy Castro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">276</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bt. Werelmbrok</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jvdorphin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Oldmose</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">James</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kim Seng Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Sobuts</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lug.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ty Seng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinsee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">120</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Princes Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Koeford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">453</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">383</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Seasider</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">323</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">. . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">698</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Ed. Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Charuside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
