---
linkTitle: 'December 30th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 30th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 30th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 24
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">SATURDAY DECEMBER 30 TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 24</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok 30th Dec. 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The compliments of the season to all.<br/>
From the rapid flight of time, which brings<br/>
back continually hollidays, and festivals<br/>
and reminiscences to every one, even Bang-<br/>
kok is not exempt. It appears to us but<br/>
yesterday since we issued the first number<br/>
of our paper, and now the year is closing,<br/>
and the volume is complete. To us in this<br/>
monotonous city time appears, shorter<br/>
when we come to take a retrospect of it,<br/>
because, perhaps, that, we have nothing<br/>
that might be called big events to mark the<br/>
different portions over which we have<br/>
passed. When a ship starts out upon the<br/>
ocean, the headland which she leaves behind<br/>
appears for a time to recede but slowly and<br/>
still appears comparatively near although<br/>
leagues distant, because there is no inter-<br/>
vening object to show the real distance.<br/>
So upon the great ocean of time when no<br/>
great events, or revolutions, or changes<br/>
mark the months, and years as they roll<br/>
by, when we come to take a retrospect<br/>
they appear short.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we have had some changes even<br/>
here. Some who entered upon the year<br/>
full of health, and hopes have been cut<br/>
down, and numbered with the dead. Some<br/>
have left our community for other places,<br/>
intending never to return, where others<br/>
have come in to take their places. Some<br/>
too who entered upon the year with high<br/>
hopes, and tolerable prospects for wealth,<br/>
have seen those prospects vanish, and have<br/>
been left to commence the world anew.<br/>
Still the year has been full of mercies to<br/>
all. Whilst some of our number have been<br/>
cut down, still the general health of the<br/>
community has been good. No pestilence<br/>
has stalked through our midst—cutting us<br/>
down in numbers, as in Egypt and some<br/>
portions of the continent of Europe.—-<br/>
Whilst therefore an all wise Providence has<br/>
not prospered us in business affairs as we<br/>
could have desired, still we have abundant<br/>
reason to think him for his services.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has also been a year free of calamity<br/>
to the government in whose dominions we<br/>
lived. The health of His Majesty, the<br/>
Supreme King has for the most part been<br/>
good, and excepting Chow Paya Yomrat<br/>
the Lord Mayor no high official has died.<br/>
It has been a year of scarcity and high prices<br/>
in many respects, but there has been noth-<br/>
ing like famine which was apprehended—<br/>
no real suffering from want of food among<br/>
the lower classes, and now the end of the<br/>
year is crowned with an abundant crop,<br/>
which will give food to the eater, and reward<br/>
the labors of the husbandman, as well as<br/>
fill up the royal treasury.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now we must bid our readers adieu. We<br/>
must retire from the striped and make<br/>
room for our successor. We need not here<br/>
state our reasons for retiring from the edit-<br/>
orial department of the Recorder. Suffice it<br/>
to say that it has not been for want of pro-<br/>
per encouragement, nor from any conscious<br/>
inability on our part to perform the duties<br/>
of an Editor. Who is there, that doubts his<br/>
own abilities! We thank own readers for<br/>
their patronage and kind indulgence, we<br/>
ask again, the favor of the community for<br/>
our successor. And finally we as politely<br/>
as possible make our bow and retire.—
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor:—-I am one of the numer<br/>
ous family of Browns. You are probably<br/>
aware, or ought to be aware at least, that<br/>
there are three great influential families<br/>
which rule the civilised, and part of the<br/>
uncivilised portion of this terrestrial ball<br/>
viz—-the Smiths;—-the Joneses and the<br/>
Browns.  It is from the last of these that<br/>
I claim to have descended.  This family<br/>
is large and influential.  Some of them<br/>
according to the customs of the countries<br/>
in which they live are persons of family,<br/>
whilst others are only family persons.<br/>
Now I have thought that I might wield<br/>
my pen to some purpose by giving some of<br/>
the members of the family, to which I be-<br/>
long, a few words of advice, through the<br/>
medium of your paper.  This I trust will<br/>
tend to their general instruction and edi-<br/>
fication. Friend Titcomb in his admirable<br/>
series of letters, addressed to our Cousins<br/>
the Joneses, has done an excellent work in<br/>
lopping off "excrescences" and filling up<br/>
deficiencies.  Should I in my humble way<br/>
be the means of accomplishing half the<br/>
amount of good to my own family, my<br/>
highest ambition will be satisfied.  But<br/>
my efforts at present shall only be directed<br/>
to that portion of our family, which is col-<br/>
lected from the different parts of the globe<br/>
and brought together in this "floating<br/>
city." Although we are closely related by<br/>
the ties of kindred, we are nevertheless a<br/>
heterogeneous mass. Of this mass we find<br/>
the extremes perhaps in the consequential,<br/>
all-knowing, all-important and somewhat<br/>
domineering spirit of Johnny; and in<br/>
the ever inquisitive, ever prying, ever<br/>
guessing, and somewhat boorish air of a<br/>
Jonathan. Should I succeed in bringing<br/>
these extremes together into one more<br/>
harmonious compound, I shall certainly<br/>
have accomplished a great work. But any<br/>
thing I may say will not be directed par-<br/>
ticularly against any one individual of my<br/>
family, but against particular errors, and<br/>
peculiarities as a whole; and the hints<br/>
thus thrown out will be like the coat,<br/>
which any one whom it "fits" can put on.<br/>
But before entering upon my duty there<br/>
are some preliminaries, which it would be<br/>
well to settle. You may want to know<br/>
what are the standing, and qualifications<br/>
which justify me in assuming this respons-<br/>
sible duty. Suffice to say that I solemnly<br/>
believe, that with all the rest of mankind<br/>
I am descended from Adam. As to my<br/>
immediate ancestors I can confidently say:<br/>
I had a father, and grand-father; but far-<br/>
ther back I don't dare to go. Whilst too,<br/>
family distinctions are advantages; and<br/>
even necessary some places, I am free to<br/>
confess that I have never been raised in<br/>
that belief, and rather detest them than<br/>
otherwise. But here I shall not at all be<br/>
troubled in that line; for as far as can be<br/>
ascertained, we all stand upon the same<br/>
footing. We are all tainted to some ex-<br/>
tent with the mechanic or manufacturer.<br/>
Not even two, do I believe, could be found<br/>
free from such a taint to save the city,<br/>
were it brought into judgement. A few<br/>
lines from Saxe, although written for quite<br/>
a different atmosphere may not be amiss<br/>
here and may be equally applicable to all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Of all the notable things on earth,
The queerest one is pride of birth.
Among our "fierce democracy!"
Abridge across a hundred years,
Without a prop t' save it from sneers—
Not e'en a couple of rotten Peers—
A thing for laughter, sneers and jeers
Is American ancestry!
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Depend upon it, my snobbish friend,
Your family thread you can't ascend,
Without good reason to apprehend
You may find it waxed at the further end
By some plebeian vocation!
Or, worse than that, your boasted line
May end in a loop of stronger twine
That plagued some worthy relation!
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Because you flourish in worldly affairs,
Don't be haughty and put on airs,
With insolent pride of station.
Don't be proud and turn up your nose
At poorer people and plainer clothes,
But learn, for the sake of your minds repose
That wealth's a bubble that comes and goes!
And that all proud flesh wherever it grows,
Is subject to irritation
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I take character, therefore and not birth,<br/>
or wealth as the standard of a person's<br/>
position in society. I consequently con-<br/>
sider myself as good as any one, and con-<br/>
siderably superior to many. I consider<br/>
myself adequate to the position of sitting<br/>
at any ones table, and with any company.<br/>
My standing in society therefore I consider<br/>
sufficient to justify me in the task which I<br/>
have undertaken.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to literary abilities I make no great<br/>
pretensions, I am not like the English<br/>
Quarterly Reviewer, who knows more law<br/>
than the Lawyer, more physic than the Phy-<br/>
sician; more theology than the Theologian;<br/>
more poetry than the Poet &c. I am one<br/>
of rather mo?dest pretensions in that re-<br/>
spect, I know that Milton, and Skakespeare<br/>
wrote poetry, that Oliver Cromwell was an<br/>
Englishman, and William of Orange was<br/>
a Dutchman. I know when the battles of<br/>
Hastings, the Boyne, and Waterloo were<br/>
fought; and there probable bearings on the<br/>
destinies of Europe. Have read Sir Wal-<br/>
ter Scotts, and Dickens, Irving's Life of<br/>
Washington and Abbot's Napoleon. Should<br/>
any of you therefore doubt my ability to<br/>
instruct you from a literary point of view<br/>
I shall not join issue with you so fiercely<br/>
as on the other point. Having thus stated<br/>
my designs I shall bid you good night.<br/>
Should this effort not prove too much for<br/>
me, you may hear from me again at some<br/>
future time. In the mean time I remain<br/>
your obedient and affectionate Sister,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PENELOPE BROWN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The last night of the old year.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY CLAUDE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Silence now is brooding like a gentle<br/>
spirit o'er the still and pulseless world.<br/>
Hark! on the winds the bells' deep tones<br/>
are swelling—'tis the knell of the departing<br/>
year. The departure of the old year, that<br/>
has brought with it sorrow and joy, is a<br/>
time memory and tears. Deep within the<br/>
recesses of the heart a spectre points, with<br/>
mournful look, to the joys of childhood pass-<br/>
ing away with the old year never to return.<br/>
He lifts the coffin lid of Hope, Joy, and<br/>
Love, and looking sadly upon their wan<br/>
and wasted forms, shakes his head mourn-<br/>
fully, saying, "Passing away! passing a-<br/>
way!" Its mark is on each brow, its shad-<br/>
ow on each heart. In its swift course it<br/>
waved its sceptre o'er the beautiful, and<br/>
they are not. It laid its pallid hand upon<br/>
the strong man, and the haughty form is<br/>
fallen; the flashing eye is dim. It trod the<br/>
halls of revelry, and the bright joyous voice<br/>
is hushed.  It entered the hovel of the poor<br/>
and removed a sufferer from this world of<br/>
sorrow and want.  Swiftly o'er the battle-<br/>
field it glided, laying its icy band alike on<br/>
the young and on the old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How little one is apt to think, when en-<br/>
joying the old year, what the new one will<br/>
bring forth.  Perhaps the moon, which looks<br/>
so gladly down upon us while ushering in<br/>
the new year, will on the next anniversary<br/>
shed its silvery light over our graves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The midnight hour was rapidly approach-<br/>
ing.  It was cold, bitter cold.  The few<br/>
who were out drew their overcoats and<br/>
comforters close around them and hurried<br/>
on to their cheerful homes.  From the prince-<br/>
ly mansions beamed a golden light, and fell<br/>
glistening on the pavement.  Graceful<br/>
forms flitted by in the mazy dance to the<br/>
sound of gay music, while the merry jest<br/>
was greeted with a burst of happy laughter.<br/>
The tired seamstress passing the brilliant<br/>
mansions clutched her bundle more closely<br/>
with her stiffened figures as she thought of<br/>
the few hard earned shillings soon to be<br/>
hers, and the bitter tears would rush to her<br/>
eyes as she thought how differently would<br/>
her New Year be spent from that of many.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Ah! she little thought, as she stood there<br/>
gazing with admiration at the fairy-like<br/>
forms flitting by the window, what a scene<br/>
was being enacted in the story above. A<br/>
pale, glimmering light streamed through the<br/>
window. The heavy damask curtains<br/>
were half drawn, the fire dimly smoulder-<br/>
ing, and
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}"as each separate dying ember wrought its ghost<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
upon the floor,"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
grim shadows seemed to play upon the op-<br/>
posite wall.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The death-like stillness was broken only<br/>
by the quick tick, tick, of the little silver<br/>
time-place. Seated in a deep elbow chair<br/>
was a man in the prime of life Some in-<br/>
ward emotion was plainly depicted on his<br/>
countenance. His dark hair was tossed<br/>
wildly back from his heated forehead, on<br/>
which the blue veins were traced with pain-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ful distinctness. His dark eye had a wild,<br/>
crazed expression. His right hand clenched<br/>
closely a written document; his left, tight-<br/>
ly clenched, hung loosely at his side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He had forged to a large amount; but<br/>
this fearful crime was locked closely within<br/>
his own breast. The wife and daughter<br/>
little imagined the occupation of the hus-<br/>
band and father as they bandied gay words<br/>
with their guests in the rooms below.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A dying ember fell suddenly to the<br/>
hearth, and grotesque shadows seemed to<br/>
play on an old-fashioned picture suspended<br/>
from the wall, his heavy eyes were lifted.<br/>
It was his boyhood's home!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Swinging back in his chair with a stifled<br/>
groan, he thought of the time when he<br/>
roamed an innocent child through the fields,<br/>
over the meadows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Again he is bounding over the hills<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}that girdle his childhood's home.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Or he stops to lave his throbbing head<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}in the waterfall's glancing foam.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He swings the scythe till the mellow horn<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Comes echoing o'er the silken fields<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}of the green and rustling corn.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
But more than all did the picture bring<br/>
to mind the old homestead, where "across<br/>
its antique portico, tall poplar trees their<br/>
shadows throw." He thought of the New<br/>
Year then, when "great fires up the chim-<br/>
ney roared," and friends by the score sat<br/>
down to the sumptuous table groaning be-<br/>
low its weight. These thoughts rushed<br/>
madly through his brain. Low voices be-<br/>
neath his window seemed to bring him back<br/>
to the present. Quickly he leaped from<br/>
his chair and opened the door. The merry<br/>
laugh and gay music jarred painfully on his<br/>
ear, and quickly closing it he opened the<br/>
window. The cool air seemed to cool his<br/>
throbbing brain, but looking below at the<br/>
forms on the steps he distinctly saw a star<br/>
glittering in the ray of light from the win-<br/>
dow. His face grew more ghastly. Too<br/>
well he knew their errand as a merry peal<br/>
from the bell ushered them in. A low<br/>
knock aroused him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A gentleman wishes to see you!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In a moment," he answered, and step-<br/>
ping quickly to a cabinet, he drew forth a<br/>
revolver. The deep voice of the church<br/>
bell commenced pealing forth the midnight<br/>
hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He glanced out, all was calm, still, and<br/>
cold; muttering, "ere it strikes twelve the<br/>
New Year will indeed dawn upon my dead<br/>
body," he fired, and as the bell struck<br/>
twelve, the New Year did indeed dawn up-<br/>
on the marble face of the suicide.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The music and dance still went on, no<br/>
one heard the pistol shot—no one knew<br/>
while the sound of revelry was going on be-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we turn from the scene of crime and<br/>
gayety, and look upon a narrow, crowded<br/>
street. The houses close together, looking<br/>
every moment as though they would fall<br/>
to the ground. Can it be we are only a<br/>
few blocks from the mansions of gayety!<br/>
Impossible! Yes, such is the case. In a<br/>
small room in one of these miserable build-<br/>
ings, we see tossing upon a bed, a pale,<br/>
enaciated female, a torn bed-quilt scarcely<br/>
shielded her from the bitter cold. No car-<br/>
pet covered the rude uneven boards, and<br/>
the furniture consisted simply of one chair.<br/>
A monthly rose looked singularly out of<br/>
place on the window sill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With open mouth the sufferer gasped for<br/>
breath. No one was there to moisten the<br/>
parched lips, no one to calm the feverish<br/>
brain, while in the frenzy of delirium she<br/>
tossed on the hard bed, murmuring inco-<br/>
herently, while the drunken shutters broke<br/>
the solemn stillness. The beams of the<br/>
moon struggled thro' the sufferer, who<br/>
would at one time, with calm voice, recall<br/>
the memories of bygone days, and forget-<br/>
ting the bare room, would seem to wander<br/>
in pleasant fields, while before her eyes<br/>
rose the home of her childhood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again the fever returned, and with hoarse<br/>
voice and flushing eye, she would call loud-<br/>
ly for vengeance, and exhausted, sink back<br/>
upon her pillow of straw, with a hollow<br/>
moan, and with pigeons accents, beg to<br/>
be taken from that loathsome place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The delirium subsided, reason returned,<br/>
and clasping her hands over her breast,<br/>
with a smile of peace hovering round her<br/>
mouth, she died as the old clock chimed<br/>
the midnight hour—died peacefully, but<br/>
without a friend to close her sightless eyes,<br/>
or drop a tear over her pale corpse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The New Year dawned upon scenes of<br/>
crime, sorrow, and happiness, and when<br/>
washing it, the spirits of the seasons<br/>
breathed in mournful cadences, that came<br/>
abroad like the far wind harp's wild and<br/>
touching wail, a melancholy dirge o'er the<br/>
dead year gone from the earth forever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
New York Weekly.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
UNDER THE MISTLETOE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A CHRISTMAS TALE
BY ELIZA SPEAR COOK.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Away o'er the blue waters, where the<br/>
stars shone down on the fair English house,<br/>
the Christmas chimes rang out on the clear<br/>
night air.  Aged couples, tottering down<br/>
the hill of life, guided by children and<br/>
grand children, stole up the sacred aisles<br/>
of the house of prayers, and knelt in rever-<br/>
ential awe and thanksgiving for the babe<br/>
born more than eighteen hundred years ago<br/>
in the Bethlehem manger, and raised up<br/>
their hearts and voices in praise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"While shepherds watched their flocks by night,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}All seated on the ground,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The angel of the Lord came down,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And glory shone around, and glory shone around."<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Happy family circles gathered round the<br/>
merry yule log fires!  Happy hearts met<br/>
beneath the mistletoe, and happy young<br/>
heads nestled down mid the soft pillows,<br/>
peeping furtively though the half open door<br/>
toward the big chinnies, trying, oh, so hard,<br/>
to keep awake, and see the funny little man<br/>
they call Santa Claus come down and put<br/>
the pretty things in their stocking mamma<br/>
hung so invitingly near, and wondering<br/>
with the childish curiosity how said funny<br/>
little man can get over that big pile of<br/>
crackling logs, or coals, and not tumble in<br/>
and burn himself and chattels, or smutty<br/>
all the pretty toys.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two parties had met in the large old<br/>
handsome manor house of Sir Mortimer<br/>
Grant, one above and one below. Sir Mor-<br/>
timer and his good lady received with cour-<br/>
teous English hospitality the gentry from<br/>
far and near, who rolled up in their carri-<br/>
ages and were deposited for the one above.<br/>
Dame Ulrica, the house-keeper, and the<br/>
butler, her good man, received with as<br/>
much hospitality, though mayhap more<br/>
awkwardly proffered, the gayly attired lads<br/>
and lasses of the village who came tripping<br/>
into the great servants' hall for the one be-<br/>
low.  A grand band discoursed sweet<br/>
music for the graceful waltz or stately<br/>
minuet above.  The merry fiddler, in high<br/>
glee, capered among the dancers in the<br/>
lively reel, or merry country-dance below.<br/>
The gallant gentlemen bent most gracefully<br/>
to kiss his fair lady love beneath the huge<br/>
mistletoe above; and she as equally gallant<br/>
rustic, smacked the lips most heartily of<br/>
some fair village belle beneath another huge<br/>
mistletoe below.  Truly happy faces beamed<br/>
on happy faces, both above and below, that<br/>
merry Christmas Eve, in the spacious home<br/>
of Sir Mortimer Grant.  There was a big<br/>
plate of bright English sixpences, laid aside<br/>
for the Christmas Carol singers who came in<br/>
parties and sang the sweet words in honor<br/>
of our Saviour's birth-night without, with<br/>
the bright stars gleaming down on them;<br/>
then, by the kind invitation that is usually<br/>
given and expected, enter, partake of the<br/>
good cheer and the contents of the plate,<br/>
and depart for some other equally hospita-<br/>
ble house. Some times a party of young<br/>
men, fantastically dressed, so as to repre-<br/>
sent Old Christmas, the Old Year, New<br/>
Year, and the King, arrive, and in a species<br/>
of pantomime play, highly amuse the spec-<br/>
tators by their antics, and themselves after-<br/>
wards in glasses of beer or mulled wine,<br/>
and the contents of a well filled plate of<br/>
money, ere leaving the company.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among all this gayety, though there<br/>
was a sad look in both Sir and Lady Grant's<br/>
faces this Christmas Eve, five years before<br/>
that night they had turned from their<br/>
hearth and home a loved and only daugh-<br/>
ter, a beautiful girl, who had refused the<br/>
hand of an Earl's son, and given her heart<br/>
to an American; a Yankee adventurer, her<br/>
parents termed him, with neither fortune<br/>
or title to place him in their eyes worthy<br/>
the hand of their daughter; and when on<br/>
that night, Christmas Eve, five years before,<br/>
they both had knelt under the mistletoe<br/>
that hung in the great Castle Hall, and con-<br/>
fessed their love and their marriage. Sir<br/>
Mortimer, in a towering English passion,<br/>
ordered them from his door, never to enter<br/>
it again under penalty or his curse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lady Mortimer was of the proud old Eng-<br/>
lish blood, and though she did not storm<br/>
and go into a passion, her back was turned<br/>
on the outstretched arms of her daughter;<br/>
and so out under the stars of that chilly<br/>
Christmas sky, the two had wandered over<br/>
the diamond frost-sparkling path into the<br/>
icy covered church, and kneeling before the<br/>
alter, those two loving but sorrowing hearts,<br/>
asked humbly of their Father in Heaven<br/>
for forgiveness of anything wrong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few days later an American bound<br/>
steamer bore the discarded aristocrat daught-<br/>
er and her noble American husband toward<br/>
his own fair New England home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A letter, full of piteous entreaties for for-<br/>
giveness, from both daughter and son, came<br/>
over the blue ocean, and rested at last, in<br/>
the hand of the irate Sir Grant.  There was<br/>
a tender relenting spot in both father and<br/>
mother's hearts when they read the tender,<br/>
 beseeching letter of their beautiful daught-<br/>
er. They had sadly missed her—-sadly<br/>
longed for one more sight of their sweet,<br/>
gentle child, and had almost held out their<br/>
relenting hands over the broad sea to the<br/>
anxiously awaiting couple.  But not yet<br/>
would they bend their haughty hearts to<br/>
their child's flagrant act of disobedience.<br/>
Let them suffer and sue a litter longer—-let<br/>
another letter come over the waste of wat-<br/>
ers, then, perhaps, an answer would find its<br/>
way back.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another letter did come, but never<br/>
reached its destination, and so at last, des-<br/>
pairing of forgiveness from their titled par<br/>
ents, no more messages crossed the Atlantic,<br/>
and so it came to pass that beneath Ameri<br/>
can skies two young hearts could have been<br/>
entirely happy but for the forgiveness de-<br/>
nied them over the seas, and beneath Eng-<br/>
lish skies, two older, but prouder hearts,<br/>
mourned in secret the absence of an only<br/>
child, but could not bend from their haugh-<br/>
ty, proud decision.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"More carol singers. Bessy, mull some<br/>
wine, and fill the plate with copper<br/>
pennies, there is only two of them," and<br/>
Dame Ulric hurried from the finish of a<br/>
lively contra dance, to issue her orders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man and a woman's voice mingled in<br/>
the sweetest accord in the words of a beau-<br/>
tiful carol. No common voices theirs.<br/>
Every one paused to listen, both above and<br/>
below, and orders came from their masters<br/>
to conduct them, by especial invitation,<br/>
above, on their entrance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So Dame Ulrico nodded complacently<br/>
in the doorway, inviting their entrance. A<br/>
tall man, muffed in a big overcoat, and<br/>
slouching hat, holding in his arms a laugh-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing-eyed, curley headed little girl: a slen-<br/>
der woman's figure, muffled in rich furs,<br/>
and deeply veiled, holding a chubby boy<br/>
by the hand, passed her and was conducted<br/>
up the broad oaken stairs, by the gracious<br/>
butler himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Mortimer Grant and his wife were<br/>
standing under the mistletoe, in playful ban-<br/>
dinage of the time, long years ago, when<br/>
he had won her, the fair daughter of an<br/>
English baron, and kissed her beneath the<br/>
mistletoe, in her father's halls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the strange carol singers entered,<br/>
there was a cry—a cry of long pent up<br/>
emotion, and the slight figure of the strange<br/>
lady singer was kneeling before the stately<br/>
pair, her veil thrown back, and her slender<br/>
hands held beseechingly up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! mother oh! father—-dear parents,<br/>
forgive! forgive your only child. Five years<br/>
ago to-night you turned us from your heart<br/>
and home. Take us back, oh take us back,<br/>
to—to—"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And covered her face with her hands,<br/>
heart rending sobs burst from her lips, as<br/>
the tall stranger knelt by her side, supporting<br/>
with his strong right arm, his gentle wife,<br/>
his slouching cap falling off, and the hand-<br/>
some face of their American son-in-law<br/>
looked pleadingly up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Down on their knees the aged couple<br/>
knelt, clasping in one embrace their long<br/>
lost son and daughter. The little boy and<br/>
girl foundled the gray hair of the two bow-<br/>
ed heads, lisping,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Grandma, grandpa, Maggie and Henny<br/>
love you; papa and mamma love us too."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The guests stood by with sober faces, but<br/>
smiling eyes; the mistletoe swayed gently to<br/>
and fro above, dropping its slender green<br/>
leaves as though in blessing on the kneeling<br/>
group beneath. Dame Ulrico and her<br/>
good man, the old and honored servant,<br/>
stood smilingly arm in arm, waiting for an<br/>
opportunity to greet their young mistress,<br/>
while further back, gathered in groups, or<br/>
peeping through the doors, were the rest of<br/>
the servants, intermixed with the lads and<br/>
lasses, all anxious for a word from one who<br/>
had been loved and mourned through that<br/>
long five years of absence, and above all, the<br/>
tender peal of Christmas chimes stole in sub-<br/>
dued cadence through the rooms from the<br/>
old ivy-covered church, where five years be-<br/>
fore the young couple had knelt, asking for<br/>
forgiveness, and every one knelt involuntary<br/>
when the old gray-haired father raised his<br/>
hands in prayer and blessing over his<br/>
children, thanking God for the gifts he had<br/>
granted him that night; and all over merry<br/>
England no happier hearts were there than<br/>
had met under the mistletoe in the honored<br/>
home of Sir Mortimer Grant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the holidays had been counted<br/>
mid things of the past, Henry St. Clair, the<br/>
American son-in-law, and his fair English<br/>
wife, embarked once more for the land of<br/>
Columbia, despite the tears and entreaties<br/>
of their titled parents, who would fain have<br/>
kept them by their own fireside. But gen-<br/>
tle Mary had learned to love free, fair A-<br/>
merica, and the beautiful home her loving<br/>
husband had borne her too, and though<br/>
she wept at parting from her loved parents,<br/>
nothing could have induced her stay, and<br/>
nothing reconciled the parents to this sep-<br/>
aration again, but the solemn promise that<br/>
every Christmas eve should find them all<br/>
reunited again in the old English mansion<br/>
of her forfathers, kneeling under the mis-<br/>
tletoe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
New York Weekly.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
General Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new Ministry has quietly taken pos-<br/>
ession of power, with one minor office still<br/>
vacant, which Earl Russell is evidently in<br/>
no hurry to fill up. The discussion, how-<br/>
ever, about the balance of official represent-<br/>
ation between the two Houses still goes on,<br/>
and the Duke of Somerset is said to have<br/>
placed his resignation of the office of First<br/>
Lord of the Admiralty in the hands of Earl<br/>
Russell, in order to give the Government an<br/>
opportunity of appointing a Commoner in<br/>
his place. Whether this statement be true<br/>
or not, it is certain that modifications in the<br/>
Ministerial arrangements will be accomplish-<br/>
ed sooner or later. In Lord Palmerston's<br/>
time the preponderance of high official men<br/>
in the Lords was felt to be a great obstacle<br/>
to the progress of public business; but the<br/>
presence of Lord Palmerston, as first Min-<br/>
ister of the Crown, in the Commons was a<br/>
counterpoise which reconciled every body<br/>
to the inconvenience. Not only was his<br/>
lordship rigid in his attendance, but he<br/>
knew every thing about the Departments,<br/>
foreign and domestic, and spoke upon them<br/>
all. Now that the leader, whose universality<br/>
and adroitness enabled him to answer every<br/>
question with facility, and to manage the<br/>
House to everybody's satisfaction, is gone,<br/>
the case is altered. Earl Russell will find<br/>
it necessary to strengthen his hands in the<br/>
Commons; but whether he will do so be-<br/>
fore the meeting of Parliament, is one of<br/>
those contingencies which must be deter-<br/>
mined by circumstances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Efforts are making in particular quarters<br/>
to show that the accession of Mr. Bright is<br/>
indispensable to the security of the new<br/>
Cabinet. It is said that, the country look<br/>
for this movement, now that the impedi-<br/>
ment of Lord Palmerston's presence has<br/>
been removed; and the people who say<br/>
this affect to be penetrated by a terrible<br/>
fear that Mr Bright cannot be prevailed<br/>
upon to accept office. They need not be a-<br/>
larmed, for there is not the remotest likeli-<br/>
hood that Mr. Bright will ever be placed<br/>
in the painful position of refusing to serve<br/>
the Queen. There are greater obstacles in<br/>
the way than Lord Palmerston, and the<br/>
greatest of them is Mr. Bright himself.<br/>
His notions upon Reform would set the<br/>
Cabinet by the ears, and his extreme views<br/>
concerning government in general would<br/>
bring down to the dust the strongest ad-<br/>
ministration that could be formed in the<br/>
existing state of parties. It may be taken<br/>
for granted that it is not in that direction<br/>
Earl Russell looks for new blood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Shenandoah, after committing tre-<br/>
mendous depredations in the capacity of<br/>
pirate, has run into British waters, and sur-<br/>
rendered to the English Government. Here<br/>
is a new complication for England, upon a<br/>
point of international law which involves the<br/>
most serious considerations. To render<br/>
the whole affair still more perplexing, there<br/>
is some ground for believing that the cap-<br/>
tain is an Englishman. No step has yet<br/>
been taken, beyond that of placing a guard<br/>
upon the vessel; a precaution which is in-<br/>
dispensable in any event, while the law of-<br/>
ficers are exploring for precedents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The published correspondence between<br/>
Mr. Adams and Earl Russell does not ap-<br/>
pear to improve the relations between the<br/>
two Governments, and the American journ-<br/>
als, even those of the most dispassionate<br/>
character, are of opinion that war must<br/>
come. This is not the general opinion<br/>
on this side of the water; but most people<br/>
regret nevertheless that Earl Russell per-<br/>
mitted himself so often to be betrayed into<br/>
outbreaks of peevishness and ill-temper. Of<br/>
the two parties, America had the best ex-<br/>
cuse for showing a little asperity, and<br/>
England was placed in a position in which a<br/>
conciliating spirit would not have been in-<br/>
consistent with dignity. But we have not<br/>
yet reached the end of the negotiation, and<br/>
there is plenty of time for Lord Clarendon<br/>
to make amends for the hasty tone of his<br/>
predecessor.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from the South is meagre, but<br/>
satisfactory. Business is being rapidly<br/>
revived, and Northern capital largely in-<br/>
vested. The question of labour still, how-<br/>
ever, engrosses serious attention, and fears<br/>
are entertained that the crops for several<br/>
seasons, pending the effectual organization<br/>
of free labour, must be far below their<br/>
former averages. In some quarters the<br/>
negroes are said to be discontented, idle,<br/>
and turbulent to an extent justifying fears<br/>
of an insurrection; but should any such<br/>
outbreak occur it is presumed that it would<br/>
be confined to some not very extended<br/>
locality, and would be speedily quelled by<br/>
the military. The Freedmen's Bureau<br/>
have, however, taken important measures<br/>
to prevent such occurrences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The South Carolina Legislature has as-<br/>
sembled. The governor's message congra-<br/>
tulates the members upon the benefits<br/>
which will result from the abolition of<br/>
slavery, and eulogises President Johnson's<br/>
policy towards the South.    It also opposes<br/>
any act tending to the repudiation of the<br/>
State debt.  General Wade Hampton has<br/>
been elected Governor of South Carolina.<br/>
General Howard has announced at Charles-<br/>
ton that the Freedmen's Bureau will con-<br/>
tinue to exercise to authority until South<br/>
Carolina allows negro testimony in the<br/>
courts. The Georgia State Convention<br/>
has repealed the secession ordinance, and<br/>
appointed a committee to memorialize<br/>
President Johnson to release Mr. Davis<br/>
and other Confederate prisoners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Washington advices of the 25th Oct.<br/>
state, that the Hon. Caleb Cushing was<br/>
about to leave for Europe on an important<br/>
mission.  A New York telegram confirms<br/>
this statement, and says that the Hon.<br/>
Caleb Cushing leaves for England on Nov.<br/>
7, on a special legal mission connected<br/>
with the State department, the nature of<br/>
which has not transpired; but it is believed<br/>
to be in relation with the adjudication<br/>
made of the claims for damages by the<br/>
States on Great Britain for depredations of<br/>
the Alabama on American commerce. It<br/>
was believed that the government had ac-<br/>
cepted the proposition of Earl Russell to<br/>
appoint a commission to settle such claims.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The emperor set out on the morning of<br/>
November 8 for Cornerhonet, the estate of<br/>
the Princess Bacciocchi. His majesty will<br/>
be present at the meeting of the agricul-<br/>
tural committee of that district. Count<br/>
Bismarck had an interview with the em-<br/>
peror on the 4th of November, and left<br/>
Paris for Berlin on the 6th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The emperor, in a letter to Marshal<br/>
M'Mahon, which has been published in a<br/>
pamphlet form, has expressed his views<br/>
on the Algerian question. Its concluding<br/>
paragraph, which we subjoin, is a resume<br/>
of the entire communication:-—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I would turn to account the valour of<br/>
the Arabs rather than bear hardly upon<br/>
their poverty; render the colonists rich and<br/>
prosperous rather than establish settlements<br/>
of emigrants; and maintain our soldiers in<br/>
healthy situations rather than expose them<br/>
to the wasting climate of the Desert. By<br/>
the realisation of this programme we shall<br/>
appease passions and satisfy interests.<br/>
Then Algeria will be to us no longer a<br/>
burden, but a new element of strength.<br/>
The Arabs, restrained and conciliated, will<br/>
give us what they can best give—-namely,<br/>
soldiers, and the colony, becoming flourishing<br/>
by the development of its territorial riches,<br/>
will create a commerical movement emin-<br/>
ently favourable to the mother country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is asserted that a private letter from<br/>
the emperor to King Victor Emmanuel<br/>
concerning the Roman question will shortly<br/>
be published.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There has been an election for the depart-<br/>
ment of the Upper Pyrenees. The govern-<br/>
ment candidates, MM. Larrabure and<br/>
Chesenlong, were elected by very large<br/>
majorities. M. Giord has been returned<br/>
at Bourg as member of the Chamber of<br/>
Deputies. He was the only candidate,<br/>
and received 21,526 votes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Home News.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_5_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Origin of the Water fall.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a well known fact that we are in-<br/>
debeted for many of our customs to the<br/>
heathen.  Especially is this the case in re-<br/>
gard to ornaments such as jewelry &c.<br/>
These are rather relics of heathenism which<br/>
cling to us.  The Waterfall it appears<br/>
originated with the Karens.  The late<br/>
Rev. A. Judson D. D. writing a number of<br/>
years ago from Burma refers to the<br/>
passion of that people for ornaments, and<br/>
the trouble they gave him in building up<br/>
the church, refers also to a visit to the<br/>
Karens where he finds the same passion<br/>
prevailing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In the meantime I was called to visit the<br/>
Karens, a wild people, several days journey<br/>
to the north of Maulmain.  Little did I<br/>
expect there to encounter the same enemy<br/>
in those 'wilds, horrid and dark with o'er-<br/>
shadowing trees. But I found that he<br/>
had been there before me and reigned with<br/>
a peculiar sway, from time immemorial.<br/>
On one Karen lady I counted between<br/>
twelve and fifteen necklaces of all colors,<br/>
sizes and materials. Three was the average.<br/>
Brass belts above the ankles; neat braids<br/>
of black hair tied below the knees; rings<br/>
of all sorts on the fingers; bracelets on the<br/>
wrists and arms; long instruments of some<br/>
metal, perforating the lower part of the ear<br/>
by an immense aperture, and reaching<br/>
nearly to the shoulders; fancifully con-<br/>
structed bags, enclosing the hair, and<br/>
suspended from the back part of the head,<br/>
not to speak of the ornamental parts of<br/>
their clothing, constituted the fashions and<br/>
the ton of the fair Karenesses. The dress<br/>
of the female converts was not essentially<br/>
different from that of their country women.<br/>
I saw that I was brought into a situation<br/>
that precluded all retreat—-that I must<br/>
fight or die."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_5_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle local event of impoatance<br/>
since our last issue is the starting of the<br/>
steam rice mills. All three started up<br/>
about the same time. It was perhaps<br/>
rather premature as paddy is likely to go<br/>
right up again. There is necessarily a<br/>
little rivalry among them, and also among<br/>
the agents they have taken up buying, which<br/>
has already given paddy an upward ten-<br/>
dency. But if buyers can stand it we<br/>
suppose others need not complain. The<br/>
place wears considerably more of a business<br/>
aspect for the last ten days than it has for<br/>
twelve months before.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Birth.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Birth of a royal son, on the 23d Dec. a<br/>
royal son of the Supreme King of Siam<br/>
was born, by Her Excellency Lady Piam<br/>
the 17th mother, being the 7th by number<br/>
of pregnancy, and the 6th by living child-<br/>
ren, she was delivered at 18 minutes past<br/>
2 P. M. This is the 76th royal offspring,<br/>
and 38th royal son. His Royal Highness,<br/>
name will be Prince "Suarte Sarjate" or<br/>
"Suwate Sarjate."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_6_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Death of a Nobleman
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Yomarat,<br/>
the Lord Mayor of Bangkok, who was born<br/>
on the 10th of April 1808, and was ap-<br/>
pointed to the office of Lord Mayor on the<br/>
29th Nov. 1864. He having exercised the<br/>
duty of the said office one year and twenty<br/>
days, was seized by Apoplexy at 7 P. M. on<br/>
the 17th Dec. 1865, and expired in a few<br/>
minutes after. His Excellency was 57 years<br/>
and 8 months old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This information is published by order<br/>
of His Majesty the First King of Siam, for<br/>
the information of the foreign friends of<br/>
His late Excellency, hoping that they will<br/>
be moved thereby, and bear in mind that<br/>
this is the path which must be followed by<br/>
every human being.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Royal Residence.
Grand Palace.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Prince "Damsong riddle" the 36th royal<br/>
son, 70th royal offspring of the present first<br/>
king of Siam, the 5th child from the 13th<br/>
mother, Lady Chao Chom Bua, the daugh-<br/>
ter of the late governor of Ligore, having<br/>
been born on Jan. 17th 1865, and became<br/>
affected by liver complaint during the last<br/>
two months, on the 18th inst, he became<br/>
worse and expired on the 22nd at 11 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Shenandoah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The notorious Shenandoah, one of the<br/>
Confederate cruisers which has been press-<br/>
ing upon American whalers so long after<br/>
the war was over, came most unexpectedly<br/>
into the port of Liverpool on Nov. 6, and<br/>
surrendered to her Majesty's ship Donagal,<br/>
the guard-ship lying in the Mersey. It is<br/>
said that the first question the captain of<br/>
Shenandoah asked of the pilot who boarded<br/>
him was whether the war was over.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel, formerly the Sea King, was<br/>
fitted up as a Confederate cruiser when the<br/>
American struggle was drawing to a close,<br/>
and consequently she had comparatively<br/>
little chance of committing ravages upon<br/>
Northern shipping. After the close of the<br/>
war, however, having obtained a quantity<br/>
of supplies at Melbourne, the Shenandoah<br/>
appeared in the Oclok Sea and in Beh-<br/>
ring's Straits, and did infinite damage to<br/>
the whaling fleet. It is estimated that since<br/>
ler depredations in these seas began she has<br/>
destroyed in all nearly 40 vessels, the ma-<br/>
jority of them whalers; and it is known that<br/>
sperm oil has in consequence advanced<br/>
from £76 to £120 per tun. and that, owing<br/>
to the scarcity of this article from the de-<br/>
struction of these vessels, prices may ad-<br/>
vance from 25 to 50 per cent, higher still.<br/>
Captain Waddell, the commander of the<br/>
Shenandoah, states that the last vessel he<br/>
spoke was the Barracouta, from Liverpool<br/>
for San Francisco, from which he learnt<br/>
that the South was really and truly defeated.<br/>
On this he at once stowed away his guns<br/>
and ammunition in the bold, and steered<br/>
for Liverpool, stopping at no other port.<br/>
On arriving near the port, he took a pilot<br/>
on board, and finding the news of the de-<br/>
feat of the Confederacy was correct, he de-<br/>
sired him to take the Shenandoah alongside<br/>
a man-of-war, if there was one in the river.<br/>
The ex-cruiser was, in consequence, placed<br/>
alongside the Donegal, and a crew from<br/>
that vessel was placed in charge of her,<br/>
some custom officers being also in charge<br/>
with them. Captain Waddell was more<br/>
than once told, it is said, while cruising in<br/>
the Pacific, of the termination of the<br/>
war; but as his informants were the crews<br/>
of the Northern vessels he destroyed, he<br/>
persistently refused to give credence to the<br/>
statement. The vessel is closely watched<br/>
by the gunboat Goshawk, Lieutenant Cheek.<br/>
Captain Waddell, his officers, and crew all<br/>
remain on board, and no attempt at an<br/>
escape has been made. It appears that<br/>
Captain Waddell has in his possession a<br/>
large amount of money and valuables,<br/>
including a number of chronometers, which<br/>
he is anxious to deliver up, considering that<br/>
they are now the property of the United<br/>
States government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the night of Wednesday, Nov. 8, Cap-<br/>
tain Paynter, of the Donegal, liberated on<br/>
parole the captain and crew of the Shen-<br/>
andoah, by order of the Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Home News.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_6_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHALL'S SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY VIRTUE OF A JUGDENT.
RENDERED IN THE CASE OP.
Wm. BURDEN V. S.
J. H. CHANDLER.
Will be sold at Public Auction.
At 12 O'clock meridian, on the
11th day of January, 1866.
The following for CASH.
At the late residence of
Mr. J. H. CHANDLER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4 Galvanized, Corrugated Iron Boats of<br/>
fine models and of the capacity varying<br/>
from 15 to 40 tons partially set up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Hoe's Washington printing Press,<br/>
nearly new.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Standing Press, an excellent article.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A large lot of type, just imported and<br/>
much of it never used.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large lot of printing material.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Lot of Carpenters tools.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lot of shot, Percussion Caps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Pair Fairbank's patent balance scales<br/>
capable of weighing 600 lbs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Post office letter scales.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lot of Printing paper, say fifty reams.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Lot of Blue vitriol. [1 Anvil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lot of Type metal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Locks and other hardware.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2 Office desks. [1 Book case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Cast Iron sink, with pump and pipe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lot of wash basins with stopper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2 Pistols. [1 Breech Loading Rifle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Lot of building material got out for a<br/>
house 80 by 40, Slates for roofing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Teak plank, venition doors, and window shutters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Teak plank, Door frames window.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
do  Lot of logs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Morticing machine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Locks and other hard ware.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Copying Press, Lot of nails.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lot of Carpenters hand vices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sand paper—wire cloth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Engineers tools.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3 Bls. Hydraulic Cement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Large paper Cutting machine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Small "  "  "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Lot of Electric apparatus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Large native Boat, with house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Small do do
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2 Small boats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Am. built boat with house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 4th day of April 1866 at 12<br/>
o'clock m. will be sold at Public Auction<br/>
on the premises that most desirable dwel-<br/>
ling house, the best fitted up in Bangkok,<br/>
with out houses and fine fruit garden a-<br/>
round it ; at the same time and place will<br/>
be sold a large lot of Household furniture<br/>
and other property—for Cash
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. M. HOOD
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_7_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscribert desires hereby to in-<br/>
form the patrons of The Bangkok Re-<br/>
corder that the responsibility of Rev. N.<br/>
A. Mc. Donald as Editor of the paper will<br/>
cease on the issuing of this last No. of the,<br/>
1st volume. The chief reason for this<br/>
change is, that his increased cares in the<br/>
Mission to which he belongs will not allow<br/>
him to bear further charge of that kind.<br/>
He expects, however, to continue to take a<br/>
lively interest in the welfare of the paper<br/>
and hopes to be able to contribute fre-<br/>
quently to its columns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscribers propose to change the<br/>
form of The Recorder to that of a sin-<br/>
gle sheet of but two leaves, to contain about<br/>
sixteen pages. He proposes also to convert<br/>
it into a weekly Journal making it more of a<br/>
an ordinary Newspaper that it has hither-<br/>
to been, as there is such a paper is more<br/>
needed at the present there in Bangkok<br/>
than one more thoroughly literary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber has good reason to ex-<br/>
pect that nearly all who have hitherto con-<br/>
tributed freely and ably to the columns of<br/>
"The Recorder" will continue their sup-<br/>
port. And he hopes also to solicit others<br/>
to write for it; and would hereby respect-<br/>
fully solicit the aid of all permanent or<br/>
transient residents who can "drive a quill"<br/>
or in any way furnish valuable intelligence<br/>
for the paper. It shall be the constant aim<br/>
of the proprietor to elicit reliable and import-<br/>
ant information of a local character with<br/>
which to enliven and enrich every successive<br/>
number, so that "the Recorder" may often,<br/>
not to say always, be considered of sufficient<br/>
value to send to friends abroad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 1st No. of the second volume of The<br/>
Recorder" will be issued on the 11th Jan'y.<br/>
1866. and all successive numbers will be<br/>
issued, on every Thursday with as much<br/>
punctuality as Divine Providence will grant<br/>
ability to secure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to correspon-<br/>
dents, subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible,<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscripts will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yearly in Advance  $16.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Half yearly do  9.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Quarterly do  4.50
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Extra copies to Subscribers  0.30
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"   "  Nom. do   . 0.40
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms or Advertisements:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First insertion ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under One Dollar, and each addition-<br/>
al line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, Seventy Five<br/>
Cents, for ten lines, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify,<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
tracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent, to the subscriber, or left at the store<br/>
of Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I shall not be re-<br/>
sponsible for any debts contracted by the<br/>
crew of the Hamburg Barque "Esmeralde"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. J. DREWES.
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Dec. 1st 1865.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not be<br/>
responsible for any debts contracted<br/>
by the crew of the British Barque "George<br/>
Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t.f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_7_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers  $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar  $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (T-T)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRICE CURRENT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Rice</td>
 <td>White</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td>79</td>
 <td>75</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean Cargo</td>
 <td>"</td>
 <td>69</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good do</td>
 <td>"</td>
 <td>59</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Old Namsuang paddy</td>
 <td></td>
 <td>45</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Old Namsuang paddy</td>
 <td>"</td>
 <td>50½</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>New Namsuang</td>
 <td>"</td>
 <td>50½</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Sugar</td>
 <td>White No. 1.</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td>14[?]</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2.</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td>14</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3.</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td>18¼</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Supplies Limited
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pepper-black Tic. 10 picul. scarce.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Sapan-wood 3 @ 4 pl. Tic. 3¾; 5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 2¾<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Teak-wood Tic. 10⅖ Yok.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Rose-wood Tic. 260 ? 100 picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Buffalo Hides Tic. [........]<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Cow Hides Tic. 15¼ ? picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gum-benjamin-Middling Tic. 140 picul<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gamboge-Tic. 49 ? picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Teelseed Tic. 79½ Coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Sticklao - No.1 Tic. 19. No.2 Tic. 10½ picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ivory Tic. 320 @ 235 picul according - to size<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Cardmimums-Best Tic. 160 Bastard 21⅞ picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Mat Bags Tic. 80 ? 1000.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Silk-Laos, Tic.- Cochin China, Tic. picul<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gold-leaf - No.1 Anaing, Tic. 16½ Tical weight.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Exchange - On Singapore 3 ? cent premium<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_7_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Dean Swift, when dining at a corporation<br/>
dinner at Leicester, was rather severe<br/>
upon a poor, sleek, quiet alderman. In the<br/>
course of the dinner he was helped to the<br/>
wing of a duck, and immediately called for<br/>
mustard. "Doctor," said the alderman, in<br/>
perfect innocence of heart, "you eat duck<br/>
like a goose."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Method is the very hinge of business;<br/>
and there is no method without punc-<br/>
tuality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Don't trouble yourself to stretch your<br/>
mouth any wider," said a dentist to a man<br/>
who extending his jaws frightfully, as<br/>
he was about to draw his tooth, "as I in-<br/>
tend to stand outside."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—is now<br/>
ready to receive Vessels of any burthen<br/>
and the attention of Ship Owners,<br/>
Agents and Masters is respectfully<br/>
solicited to the advantages for Repair-<br/>
ing and Sparring Vessels which no<br/>
other Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of the<br/>
Premises is submitted for the informa-<br/>
tion of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of wa-<br/>
ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Length. 300 feet. (to be extended)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breadth. 100 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Depth of Water 15 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Caisson,<br/>
has a splendid entrance of 120 feet<br/>
from the River with a spacious Jetty on<br/>
each side, where Vessels of any size<br/>
may lay at any state of the Tides, to<br/>
lift Masts, Boilers etc.—with Powerful<br/>
Lifting Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring Dis-<br/>
patch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the differ-<br/>
ent departments of Ship-wrights, Mast<br/>
and Black Makers, Blacksmiths,<br/>
Engineers, Foundry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended by<br/>
Europeans who have had many years<br/>
experience in the different branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best picked<br/>
men from Hongkong and Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular at-<br/>
tention to the Great advantages this<br/>
Dock offers, being in a Port where<br/>
the best Teak and other Timber can<br/>
be had at the cheapest cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in con-<br/>
nection with the Dock to insure dis-<br/>
patch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in height<br/>
and can be taken out or shifted with-<br/>
out cutting or causing any expense to<br/>
ships having to get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared to<br/>
give estimates or enter into Contracts<br/>
for the repairing of Wooden or Iron<br/>
Ships; or the Building of New Ships,<br/>
Steam Boats, etc. or any kind of work<br/>
connected with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may lay<br/>
at the Company's Buoy's or Wharf free<br/>
of charge until ordered to remove by<br/>
the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leaving<br/>
the Dock must approve and sign<br/>
there-—Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting the<br/>
docking to be addressed until further<br/>
notice to the undersigned by whom all<br/>
Bills will be signed and collected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN BUSH
Managing Director.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. St. Cyr Jul-<br/>
ien in our firm ceased from this date, and<br/>
Mr. T. M. Alloin will sign by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam<br/>
Nov. 1st 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_6_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the publc-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons indebted to the<br/>
late Chas. H. Thomas, are<br/>
hereby requested to make im-<br/>
mediate payment to the United<br/>
States Consul; and all persons<br/>
having claims against, the said<br/>
Chas. H. Thomas will present<br/>
them properly authenticated<br/>
at the U.S. Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. Hood
by order U. S. Consul
Bangkok, Nov. 27th
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_8_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to in<br/>
form the public that the Custom<br/>
Office has been removed to<br/>
the premises formerly posses-<br/>
sed by Messrs John Gunn &<br/>
Co at Kok-kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ESTATE OF ROBERT HUNTER, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been appointed ad-<br/>
ministrator of the Estate of the late Robert<br/>
Hunter, who died at Bangkok on 19th April last,<br/>
requests that all parties indebted to the said<br/>
Estate will make immediate payment, and that<br/>
all who have claims thereon, will send in the<br/>
same without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
R. S. SCOTT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok,<br/>
31st October 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would here-<br/>
by inform the public that he<br/>
has a free daily post boat con-<br/>
nected with the printing office<br/>
of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles above<br/>
the centre of foreign business,<br/>
is virtually brought to the<br/>
doors of all the Consulates<br/>
and foreign merchants, at least<br/>
once a day, (Sunday's except-<br/>
ed) and twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port. The<br/>
regular daily boat is dispatch-<br/>
ed from the office about 9 A. M.<br/>
and the occasional boat at 1<br/>
P. M. The post boy will call<br/>
at each of the Consulates, and<br/>
at the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for letters,<br/>
or other business for the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers, can<br/>
be left in charge of W. H.<br/>
Hamilton Esqr. at Messer Vir-<br/>
gin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r1b7">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST DEC 30TH 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r70">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r1b8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barrett</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">128</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lorensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Pruss. do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Enterprise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Somfeldt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">488</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ed. Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">British do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">St Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">357</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Siam Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Tinghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">90</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ad. de Mocken</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demenron</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">284</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">French Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brinsroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">383</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Siam do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Solo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ereken</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">365</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hamb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Meeklong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ill. Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Eames</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Witherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Solo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Erekin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">365</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hamb. do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Zansibar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Manch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">242</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Gazelle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Green</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">246</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Brit. do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Siam do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Railway</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">213</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Honbow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">St. Marys</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Crane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Poses</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">225</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hamb. Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Caroline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Psulpsi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Pruss. Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">343</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Brit. do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_10_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—I am thinking that it<br/>
may be my duty to give you a little report<br/>
of my recent trip to P’etch’aburee and will<br/>
therefore take a few moments at this late<br/>
hour to write one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having heard that my son-in-law Rev.<br/>
D. Mc Gilvray had been long suffering<br/>
from fever and was getting worse, I broke<br/>
away on the 18th inst. from my crushing<br/>
cares at home to visit him. And by the<br/>
politeness of Mr. Thompson and the kind-<br/>
ness of His Excellency the Chao Phya<br/>
Kahaoom, I accompanied the former gen-<br/>
tleman to P. which place we reached on the<br/>
20th. We were very happy to find that<br/>
Mr. Mc Gilvray’s fever had left him sev-<br/>
eral days before our arrival, and that he<br/>
was in all respects much better than we<br/>
had expected to find him, and with every<br/>
prospect of a speedy restoration to his health.<br/>
All the other members of the Mission, to-<br/>
gether with their children, were in the en-<br/>
joyment of good health. But our ever<br/>
constant and invaluable friend Prā-pālāṭ,<br/>
the deputy governor, we were very sorry<br/>
to find in deep affliction by the death of an<br/>
infant child, and the distressing illness of<br/>
his mother, whom he was highly honoring<br/>
by giving her his unremitting attention<br/>
day and night, scarcely leaving her for a<br/>
moment during all the five days of our<br/>
sojourn in the place. Her disease appeared<br/>
to be a de?y in the head, producing excru-<br/>
ciating pain and almost total blindness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His honor the Prā-pālāṭ expressed great<br/>
regret that he could not take time to give us<br/>
more of his personal attention. But he so<br/>
arranged that we had all our wants ade-<br/>
quately supplied in the way of horses car-<br/>
riages and men, so that Mr. T. was enabled<br/>
to execute all his purposes of Photograph-<br/>
ing on the palace mount, on the plains, in<br/>
the caves, at a distant Laos village, and at<br/>
other places. He made many beautiful<br/>
pictures of the very unique and charming<br/>
scenery in and about the city of P'etch'a-<br/>
buree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We found the rice crop in that province<br/>
in the most prosperous condition, the yield<br/>
being full a quarter more than ever being<br/>
before, of excellent quality, and nearly all<br/>
reaped and stacked. The oxcarts were<br/>
just beginning to haul in the sheaves to the<br/>
threshing floors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We returned on the morning of the 26th,<br/>
having urged our way home in 29 hours<br/>
by an oar boat with six men, hoping to be<br/>
in time to write by the "Chaw Phya" but<br/>
were too late by nearly two days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In consequence of having been absent<br/>
from my business at home on an errand of<br/>
mercy to my sick son, I find that I shall<br/>
be under the necessity of postponing the<br/>
issuing of "The Bangkok Calendar" for<br/>
1866 about as many days, and beg that my<br/>
patrons in this most unprofitable enterprise,<br/>
will kindly pardon this unavoidable failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Dec. 29th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_10_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Just as our paper is nearly out of the<br/>
press we hear with deep sorrow that Rev.<br/>
C. A. Chulcott of the Baptist Chinese mis-<br/>
sion in this city, is still dangerously ill of<br/>
fever Friday 29th Dec. 3 o'clock p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Wednesday the 27th inst. His Excel-<br/>
lency the Kralahome, gave a birth-day din-<br/>
ner on the completion of His E's. 59 year.<br/>
All the foreign consuls resident in B. (ex-<br/>
cept the French) were present, also the<br/>
Master Attendant, Com. of Police and a<br/>
few of the representatives of the large<br/>
firm here. H. E's son and brother, and Kim<br/>
Ching the Siamese Consul for Singapore<br/>
were also present. The dinner was mag-<br/>
nificent and such as is only to be had at<br/>
His Excellency's.  H. E's band was in at-<br/>
tendance, discoursing sweet music to regale<br/>
the soul, while the guests did  fall. justice<br/>
to the good things within.  Every thing<br/>
went off in first rate style, but owing to the<br/>
illness of the second King, there was no<br/>
theatrical performance, and the party broke<br/>
up at ½ past 8 o'clock.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_10_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The late Mr. Cobden used to tell the<br/>
following anecdote:— "When in America,"<br/>
said he, "I asked an enthusiastic American<br/>
lady why her country could not rest satis-<br/>
fied with the immense unoccupied territor-<br/>
ies it already possessed, but must be ever<br/>
hankering after the lands of its neighbours:<br/>
when her somewhat remarkable reply was,<br/>
`Oh, the propensity is a very bad one, I<br/>
admit; but we come honestly by it, for we<br/>
inherited it from England."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Reason Why.—Three or four times<br/>
a couple appeared before a clergyman for<br/>
marriage; but the bridegroom was drunk,<br/>
and the reverend gentleman refused to tie<br/>
the knot. On the last occasion he expres-<br/>
sed his surprise that so respectable a look-<br/>
ing girl was not ashamed to appear at the<br/>
alter with a man in such a state. The poor<br/>
girl burst into tears and said she could not<br/>
help it. "And why, pray?" "Because,<br/>
sir, he won't come when he is sober."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-30_10_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"Gentlemen," said Admiral Farragut ot<br/>
some of the officials in the Navy Depart-<br/>
ment who wanted to put off a lot of "favor-<br/>
ites" upon the old sea-dog as efficient<br/>
officer; "gentlemen, you can no more<br/>
make a sailor out of a landlubber by dres-<br/>
sing him up in sea-toggery and putting a<br/>
commission in his pocket, than you could<br/>
make a shoemaker of him by filling him<br/>
with sherry-cobbler!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
