---
linkTitle: 'August 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 16th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 15
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY AUGUST 16th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 15</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok August 16th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that an incipient rebellion has<br/>
really been quelled in this place. To what<br/>
extent thi[s] had gone, and what proportions<br/>
it had assumed is difficult to find out, as<br/>
there is evidently a disposition on the part<br/>
of those who know, to keep the matter<br/>
quiet. There are also any amount of ru-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
mours afloat among the natives, so that it is<br/>
impossible to get any thing reliable. Some<br/>
rumours also implicate many of the principle<br/>
Siamese noblemen, and leading Chinamen<br/>
of the place. It is certain however that a<br/>
combination of Chinamen, but perhaps<br/>
nothing more than a secret society, has<br/>
been discovered which was assuming rather<br/>
alarming proportions. They also evidently<br/>
had in contemplation a strike of some kind<br/>
as a number of badges &c. has been discover-<br/>
ed, and are in the hands of the authorities.<br/>
The leader of the concern has been<br/>
disposed of in some way. The impression<br/>
is sent abroad that he has been banished to<br/>
China, but he has in all probability been<br/>
banished in such a way, that there is no<br/>
possibility of his ever returning to give any<br/>
further trouble.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since our last issue the mail by the<br/>
French line has been receiv?ed here per<br/>
Pontianak but we have not been able to find<br/>
any later items of European news than<br/>
those already published-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the United States the result of the<br/>
trial of the conspirators which has been<br/>
absorbing the attention of the country, had<br/>
not yet been published. Evidence suffi-<br/>
cient to implicate Jeff Davis to some ex-<br/>
tent in the conspiracy had been adduced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A scheme has also been set afloat to<br/>
pay off the national debt by subscriptions<br/>
in shares of $10,000 each. The renowned<br/>
James Gordon Bennet, Editor and proprie-<br/>
tor of the New York Herald, claims to be<br/>
the originator of the scheme, and has him-<br/>
self subscribed four shares ($40,000). Some<br/>
of the other papers however deny that<br/>
Mr. Bennet is the originator of the plan,<br/>
and quote from the Springfield (Mass.) Re-<br/>
publican, showing that the scheme origi-<br/>
nated with some of the merchant princes<br/>
New York, some four months previous.<br/>
Cornelius Vanderbilt has headed the list<br/>
with $500,000. Bonner of the New York<br/>
Ledger and G. W. Childs of the Phila-<br/>
delphia Ledger give also each $40,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Arrangements are also being made by<br/>
which men of small capital can also con-<br/>
tribute. The affair once started must be<br/>
carried right through before it becomes a<br/>
drag. It is still however a matter of doubt<br/>
if the whole amount can be raised, the na-<br/>
tional debt is nearly $3,000,000,000, and<br/>
the amount subscribed is not quite<br/>
$2,000,000. Should the scheme succeed<br/>
there has been nothing in the history of<br/>
the world to equal it. Some of the lead-<br/>
ing papers however object to paying off<br/>
the debt speedily, either by subscription, or<br/>
direct taxation.  It is contended that the<br/>
present system of taxation will liquidate<br/>
the debt in twenty years, those objecting<br/>
to the speedy liquidation of the debt say,<br/>
that the next generation have a right to<br/>
pay some of it, that the present generation<br/>
have borne their share and as the next<br/>
will reap the principle benefits of the war,<br/>
they should also bear some of the burden.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
New Canal.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the new canal to the su-<br/>
gar districts of Nākawn-cheiséé has really<br/>
been commenced. We believe it is the<br/>
first great internal improvement undertaken<br/>
in Siam wholly for the purpose of facili-<br/>
tating trade. One or two other important<br/>
canals how been dug during the present<br/>
reign, but they appear to have been under-<br/>
taken moro for the purpose of gratifying<br/>
the lovers of pleasure than for the purpose of<br/>
facilitating the interral trade of the<br/>
country.  It appears also, that the present<br/>
year has been rather a hard one upon the<br/>
royal treasury as well as upon the mer-<br/>
chants.  In consequence of a deficiency in<br/>
the treasury the government has found it<br/>
necessary, to devise other means to obtain<br/>
funds for the completion of the canal just<br/>
commenced.  Two plans were suggested for<br/>
that purpose.  One was to grant the<br/>
contractor the privilege of imposing for a<br/>
certain length of time, say ten years, a<br/>
tax upon boats passing through the canal.<br/>
The only objection to this plan is that the<br/>
petty officers in charge of such things are<br/>
so accustomed to extort from the people,<br/>
for the purpose of replenishing there own<br/>
pockets and for which those imposed upon<br/>
can seldom if ever obtain redress. The<br/>
other plan was to pay the expenses by a<br/>
gambling scheme of some kind. Consid-<br/>
ering the propensities of the people for<br/>
gambling it was to be feared that they<br/>
would prefer this plan, but we are happy<br/>
to learn that the former plan has been<br/>
adopted.  The work has been given by<br/>
contract to Poh Yim, which will insure its<br/>
more speedy completion than if done by<br/>
government directly.  If the work is pro-<br/>
perly carried on it may be completed, at<br/>
least, by the commencement of the next<br/>
rainy season.  It will also open up a great<br/>
section of country which has hitherto been<br/>
comparatively useless to any one for want<br/>
of proper means of communication.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These internal improvements once com-<br/>
menced, it is to be hoped they will be car-<br/>
ried on to a considerable extent. The<br/>
canals leading from here to Mahachei on<br/>
the Tachin and thence to the Meklong<br/>
need widening and deepening very much<br/>
in some places. Especially is this the<br/>
case at Ban Bon and Ma hon where the<br/>
tides meet. During certain seasons of the<br/>
years boats are often obliged to wait for<br/>
days, and even weeks for a tide sufficient<br/>
to carry them over the top of the hill.<br/>
Often-times, too, besides the loss of time in<br/>
waiting, the whole cargo is also spoiled,<br/>
which is not very encouraging to traders.<br/>
With a good dredging machine, (and we<br/>
believe there is one coming,) it would re-<br/>
quire but little expense to make those<br/>
places passable at any time. If it can't<br/>
be done otherwise, let it be done by taxing<br/>
the boats. Of course the new canal now<br/>
constructing will draw off some of the<br/>
trade from these canals but they must still<br/>
remain a great thoroughfare.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A canal is also needed to connect the<br/>
Meklong with the Bankaboon river so that<br/>
small boats from Petchaburee and other<br/>
places might avoid crossing the gulf which<br/>
is oftentimes dangerous. We learn that a<br/>
private individual has offered to undertake<br/>
the work upon the some plan of the Na-<br/>
kawneicheé canal, but has received no<br/>
response. The sooner government wakes<br/>
up to the importance of these things the<br/>
better.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tuileries
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 115)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 20th of June was the forerunner of<br/>
a much more terrific day the famous<br/>
10th of August. The interval between<br/>
these two periods was marked by a succes-<br/>
sion of minor events, indicating by their<br/>
contradictory character the feverish and<br/>
uneasy state of the body politic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 9th July the two conflicting par-<br/>
ties in the Assembly, the Constitutionalists<br/>
and the Republicans, agreed in a moment<br/>
of enthusiasm to forget their past differences,<br/>
and embracing, swore for the future to<br/>
labor together in harmony for the benefit<br/>
of their common country. This reconciliation<br/>
hardly lasted beyond the day on which<br/>
it was pronounced. On the 11th the As-<br/>
sembly declared the country in danger, and<br/>
restored Petion, who had been suspended.<br/>
from his functions as Mayor, by the depart-<br/>
mental Directory of Paris, for his conduct on<br/>
the occasion of the attack on the Tuileries.<br/>
On the following day, the anniversary of the<br/>
destruction of the Bastile, both he and the<br/>
King appeared at the F?te in the Champ de<br/>
Mars,—the one for the moment the triumph-<br/>
ing idol, the other the already bound and<br/>
all but sacrificed victim of that tyrannizing<br/>
populace, whose insatiable appetite for blood<br/>
was within a few months to destroy both.<br/>
It is said that in one of the speeches Petion<br/>
delivered on this occasion, the orator boldly<br/>
invited his auditors to join him in swearing<br/>
destruction to all Kings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A circumstance which took place about<br/>
this time led to a curious and characteristic<br/>
display of the temper of the times. The<br/>
garden of the Tuileries after being opened<br/>
on the 8th was closed again in a few days;<br/>
but on the 25th the Assembly decreed that<br/>
the terrace des Tuileries, should be consid-<br/>
ered as comprehended within the precincts<br/>
of their Hall and hence accessible to the<br/>
people. To prevent persons who might as-<br/>
semble on this national ground from tres-<br/>
passing upon the garden, which was divided<br/>
from it only by a small low wall, with a<br/>
flight of steps at one end, it was ordered<br/>
that a tricolored ribbon should be suspend-<br/>
ed among the trees around the bounderies<br/>
of the terrace. No instance occurred of any<br/>
one violating this barrier, so weak in itself<br/>
and yet so strong in its appeal to the pride<br/>
and patriotism of the people. But M. d'Epre-<br/>
mesnil, who, although one of the most con-<br/>
spicious popular favorites in the early days<br/>
of the revolution, was now regarded as an<br/>
aristocrat, having made his appearance on<br/>
the Terrace, the rabble of armed Sans Cul-<br/>
lottes fell upon and severely wounded him,<br/>
and would have massacred him on the spot,<br/>
had not some members of the Assembly<br/>
come up on hearing his cries, and with<br/>
much duifficulty rescued him from their<br/>
hands. "Comme vous êtes à present J'<br/>
étais aussi l'edol de ce gens ce," Even as<br/>
you are now I also was the idol of the<br/>
people, said Epremisnet to Petion who<br/>
approached him as he lay bleeding and<br/>
exhausted immediately after his escape.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 25th July a band of twelve hun-<br/>
dred men arrived in Paris from Britany,<br/>
and on the 30th five hundred more from<br/>
Marseilles. The professed object of these<br/>
strangers, afterwards generally known by<br/>
the name of the Fédérés, was to aid the<br/>
citizens of Paris in their contest with the<br/>
Court. And in this they did good service.<br/>
The Fédérés had in fact been invited to<br/>
Paris by the Girondists, and to that party<br/>
they continued to adhere during their stay,<br/>
protecting them from the mob when they<br/>
lost their short lived ascendency, as zeal-<br/>
ously as they at first performed their part in<br/>
the popular insurrection which was put in<br/>
motion by their leaders. And their presence<br/>
undoubtedly contributed in no small degree<br/>
to embolden the friends of republicanism<br/>
and to precipitate the overthrow of mon-<br/>
archy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 10th of August a mob of twelve<br/>
thousand men and women, all armed and<br/>
desperate, surrounded and partially in-<br/>
vested the Tuileries where Louis and his<br/>
family were lodged rather as prisoners than<br/>
sovereigns. The Royal family escaped by<br/>
taking refuge in the Assembly. A general<br/>
massacre soon commenced which lasted for<br/>
nearly four hours. To use the words of<br/>
Barbareux who was present at the head of<br/>
a band of Marseillais, "they slew in the<br/>
rooms, on the roofs, and in the cellars the<br/>
Swiss who were found either with or with<br/>
ont arms, the chevalièrs and the valets."<br/>
"Our devotedness " Says Madam Campan<br/>
"could do nothing. We addressed oursel-<br/>
ves to men and women who did not know<br/>
us." The whole number of Swiss who per-<br/>
ished on this day was 666, besides cheval-<br/>
ièrs and domestiques who were also ruthlessly<br/>
massacred. The fullest and most minutely<br/>
particlular picture of this day is contain-<br/>
ed in the narrative of a person belonging<br/>
to the Bureau of one of the sections, which<br/>
has been recently published for the first<br/>
time by M. Dulaure in his " Exquises His-<br/>
toriques."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Scarcely," says this writer, "had we en-<br/>
tered the l'Place du Carrousel when our eyes<br/>
were met by strange and horrible sights.<br/>
On our right lay many heaps each about<br/>
twenty feet in height composed of dead<br/>
bodies entirely naked. I saw a great num-<br/>
ber lying on the terrace of the Palace al-<br/>
ready stripped. The garden and adjacent<br/>
court were crowded with spectators, of<br/>
whom the greater number were women<br/>
whose curiosity it was evident was at least<br/>
equal to their modesty. The bodies of<br/>
the National guard, of the citizens, and of the<br/>
Fédérés, had been removed by their friends,<br/>
only those of the Swiss guard lay exposed in<br/>
this shocking manner. The narrative goes<br/>
on to say "that the whole of the front of the<br/>
Tuileries was bordered with naked dead<br/>
bodies frightfully disfigured, so that they<br/>
could not pass the staircases leading to the<br/>
chapel and private apartments, as the pas-<br/>
sages were filled with dead carcasses, and<br/>
streams of blood still flowed from them on all<br/>
sides." During the whole of this memora-<br/>
ble day the Assembly had continued their<br/>
sitting, the King and his family, who had<br/>
taken refuge in the Legislative Assembly<br/>
while the attack was going on at the Palace,<br/>
occupied the seats reserved for the reporters.<br/>
On that day it was ordered that all the<br/>
royal statues in Paris and throughout<br/>
France, should be thrown down, and in the<br/>
capital, at least, the mob lost no time in<br/>
carrying it into execution.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Cradle of Treason.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our first sight of Charleston was a dis-<br/>
appointment. We did not expect to see<br/>
such terrible desolation, and we wondered<br/>
how the rebel newspapers could have kept<br/>
back a knowledge of their sufferings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One-third of the city, and perhaps the<br/>
best third, is utterly destroyed. If New<br/>
York city, extended only to Canal street,<br/>
and a fire, three blocks wide, should burn<br/>
its way from Fulton Ferry to the foot of<br/>
Barclay street, it would be something like<br/>
what has befallen Charleston.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then, what is untouched by the fire is<br/>
pierced and torn and shattered by our<br/>
shells. Every second building, at least, is<br/>
injured by them. The Mills House, an im-<br/>
posing structure, resembling the Sherman<br/>
House in Chicago, was hit eighteen times.<br/>
We gathered some blooming white clover<br/>
from the grass that grew thickly at its<br/>
closed doorway.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Charleston Hotel, the banks, the<br/>
court house, Hibernian and Secession Halls,<br/>
all bore the marks of Gillmore's stern com-<br/>
pliments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor did the churches fare much better<br/>
—some of them, indeed, far worse! We<br/>
counted five burnt churches, the Catholic<br/>
cathedral, the finest in the South, and the<br/>
Circular, among the number.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the quaint old church of St. Michael's,<br/>
built of materials brought from England<br/>
long ago, and in the pretty little, aristo-<br/>
cratic Huguenot church, which was filled<br/>
with tablets to the memory of the Sassures,<br/>
Porechers, and Gaussens, who fled to the<br/>
Carolinas after the repeal of the Edict of<br/>
Nantes, the work of destruction had been<br/>
complete. It looked as if some of Crom-<br/>
well's iconoclasts had been despoiling the<br/>
temples of the Malignants
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Shells had burst in these buildings and<br/>
thieves had burst in after them, and seized<br/>
the cushions, torn out the pew-linings, car-<br/>
ried off reading-desk, communion-table, and<br/>
church ornaments, and left not a vestige<br/>
of the organs for our busy relic-hunters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. John Phillips, a lawyer, and one of<br/>
the few respectable white inhabitants left,<br/>
told us that, when the city was abandoned<br/>
by the rebel troops, the rogues entered<br/>
churches and houses, and carried off what<br/>
they wanted; that the negroes had no hand<br/>
in this plundering; that the newspapers, in<br/>
telling us that the city was but slightly dam-<br/>
aged by our shells, told us "infernal lies;"<br/>
that, at first, no one believed Gillmore could<br/>
throw a ball into the city—-a distance of<br/>
six miles, and when the shells did come<br/>
there was a great deal of terror. "It was<br/>
said work for us," said Mr. Phillips, "but"<br/>
-—with a grin smile-—"we heard it was<br/>
great fun for your soldiers."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of course many lives were lost. We<br/>
heard of a brother and sister who were torn<br/>
to pieces as they stood talking by their fire-<br/>
side; and of fifteen negroes who were<br/>
killed by the bursting of a single shell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are no white Union men in<br/>
Charleston. "There was not a white man<br/>
in the city that I dared to trust," said Rob-<br/>
ert Small. There are some who call them-<br/>
selves loyal, but such loyalty would be a<br/>
Copperhead's delight in Brooklyn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of this latter class is Governor Aiken, a<br/>
complaining, dissatisfied old gentleman,<br/>
vexed at the Proclamation of Emancipa-<br/>
tion, vexed at the loss of his wine and the<br/>
plunder of his plate by Sherman's "Bum-<br/>
mers," and altogether a lone, lorn creet-<br/>
tur— like Mrs. Gummidge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The poor whites with whom we talked<br/>
are bitter rebels and did not think their<br/>
cause yet lost, although they willingly sold<br/>
us fifty dollars in Confederate money for a<br/>
dollar greenback.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A beautiful girl, scarce fifteen years old,<br/>
came out to unfasten a garden-gate for us,<br/>
and was very graciously trying to do so<br/>
when her mother appeared and said, with a<br/>
haughty air that could not brook our pres-<br/>
ence, "Come away, child." This was the<br/>
only fine lady rebel visible to us during our<br/>
stay in Charleston.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We asked Robert Small where'd all the<br/>
grand dames—-the wives and daughters of<br/>
the leading men, were. "I hope they are<br/>
all in their graves," was his savage answer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were many glad faces in the city,<br/>
but they were all black ones. The negroes<br/>
were in a strange state of delight; they<br/>
danced for us, they sung for us, they<br/>
brought us flowers in profusion, and refused<br/>
our proffered money—-"No; you have done<br/>
enough for us already; I spoke of Lee's<br/>
surrender to an old negro woman, the sole<br/>
occupant of a marble mansion. She did<br/>
not understand its full meaning, but felt it<br/>
must be something good, and so lifted her<br/>
hands and shouted: "Mighty King!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fort Sumer is much larger than we<br/>
expected. At the flag-raising there were<br/>
about four thousand people in the space in-<br/>
closed by its battered ramparts, and yet it<br/>
was not more than half-filled. Sumter,<br/>
with all its bruising and pounding, is still<br/>
impregnable. Five hundred men, with<br/>
communication open to Charleston, could<br/>
hold it against all comers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An attacking force would have to disem-<br/>
bark at the base of a hill of crumbling<br/>
brick, broken shells, and loose sand, against<br/>
which the sea beats; then climb a chain-<br/>
fence at the very edge of the water, and,<br/>
before the top of this hill could be gained,<br/>
two rows of sharpened wooden stakes, firm-<br/>
ly imbedded in the earth and pointing out-<br/>
ward, must also be surmounted. It did not<br/>
seem as if this could be done in the face of<br/>
a determined enemy; our boys tried it<br/>
once, and failed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the hour passed for opening the cere-<br/>
monies we heard them ask impatiently,<br/>
"Where's Beecher?" " Where's Beecher?"<br/>
At length some one shouted, "There he is<br/>
in the white hat." We looked, and lo! the<br/>
great expected came looming over the top<br/>
of the parapet, in full view of the crowd<br/>
below, and descended to the center of the<br/>
fort amid great cheering. He was the fa-<br/>
vorite by all odds; the best-loved man in<br/>
Sumter that day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Magnolia Cemetery, two miles from the<br/>
city, is a somber, mossy place, sadly<br/>
neglected, except one little spot where<br/>
rests the wife of an English sailor, who<br/>
has created a monument to her memory<br/>
which is perfectly unique. It is like a<br/>
very elegant doll's house, or a confection-<br/>
er's model of a mausoleum. There is a<br/>
miniature ship chained to a capstan, on<br/>
which is written in gold letters, "The<br/>
Promise, June, 1822." Then a pair of scales,<br/>
evenly balanced, and hanging from the cen-<br/>
ter of a triumphal arch, holds his heart in<br/>
one scale, hers in the other. There are two<br/>
lace handkerchiefs, with the words on glass,<br/>
"I had your first and last dear kiss." There<br/>
are turtle-doves, and love-mottos, and mo-<br/>
sale and shell-work; then another little<br/>
ship, then an American flag and a British<br/>
union jack, then a plaster cast of a little<br/>
boy, then ever-so-many other things, and<br/>
at last a head-stone with this epitaph:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}"She was—but words are wanting<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To say what. Say what<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}A wife should be,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And that she was."<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
All this is protected by a gilt and gayly-<br/>
colored roof, and the whole affair might<br/>
be covered by a good sized table-cloth.<br/>
Through the kindness of General Hatch<br/>
and Captain Hunt, all the ambulances, old<br/>
stage-coaches, one-horse shays, rheumatic<br/>
buggies, bony Rosinantes, and architectural<br/>
steeds in the place were impressed for our<br/>
use. They were the best the city afforded;<br/>
what more could we ask? One of our par-<br/>
ty, a grave and reverend seignior, but un-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
used to these chariots of the sun, confiscated<br/>
a horse and buggy for his own sole use, and<br/>
drove, not through Charleston, as he cer-<br/>
tainly intended, but straight into the dock<br/>
—a depth of over twenty feet. The buggy<br/>
was lost for ever; the horse, after immense<br/>
labor, managed to come up swimming, and<br/>
escaped out alive. The company on the Oce-<br/>
anus came away loaded with relics. We<br/>
had stiff leather-bound books from the<br/>
locked City Library, amn?tes leaves from<br/>
Calhoun's game and Hemminger's resi-<br/>
dence, papers from the banks, records from<br/>
the court house, gilded cherubs' heads from<br/>
the churches, muskets from the slave-<br/>
marts, soldier's breast plates and epaulets,<br/>
and a new, newly-finished rebel flag, which<br/>
was presented to the Sumter Club by its<br/>
finder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We found letters dated July and August,<br/>
1861, from the Bank of Liverpool to the<br/>
Bank of Charleston, "under cover to the<br/>
Bank of the State of New York," which ex-<br/>
plains how some rebels found means to<br/>
communicate with their friends in England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The slave-mart were easily discovered;<br/>
and very airy, convenient shambles they<br/>
were; but the little den in which the crea-<br/>
tures were penned till brought out for sale<br/>
were dark, filthy, and horrible. And the<br/>
darkest and filthiest of all was a row of<br/>
cells, on an upper floor; where the negroes<br/>
were placed? the most crazy at being<br/>
parted from their children. Over the door<br/>
of one of these prisons was the sign,<br/>
"Clinkscales and Boozer. Auctioneers"<br/>
Phoebus! what a name, Well, they will<br/>
clink no more the dollar that has blood<br/>
upon it, and boo? no longer on the money<br/>
that made mad a slave mother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Just before we left the city we stood at<br/>
the corner of the battery, and looking<br/>
across the harbor, saw the old flag over<br/>
Sumter again, and traced its crimson strip-<br/>
es on the eastern sky. It meant more than<br/>
ever before, and we loved it more than<br/>
ever, for it had been insuled for our sakes,<br/>
and we had suffered with it. And when we<br/>
turned and saw the ruined city—-saw its<br/>
silent homes and desolate hearth-stones,<br/>
the wild grass in its streets, and the un-<br/>
pruned rose tree choke its door-ways—-we<br/>
thought of the words, "They that take the<br/>
sword shall perish with the sword;" and<br/>
we felt something of the pity which filled<br/>
the bosom of the Master as, bending long<br/>
ago above another rebellious place, " he<br/>
beheld the city and wept over it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Independent May 4th.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Brothers Leinhardt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the borders of a pretty Swedish lake<br/>
lies the village of Lundakolping. Lake and<br/>
village are each so tiny I doubt if you would<br/>
deem them worthy of the name; but the<br/>
lake, pure, deep, and cool, is the prettiest<br/>
and clearest of all lakes. The old forest<br/>
trees (clustering to the very brink, till the<br/>
long grey moos from their branches trails<br/>
in the quiet water,) wrestle around it a<br/>
rich emerald garland, and numberless fishes<br/>
peep in its calm depth. The huge moun-<br/>
tain, sheltering it from boisterous winds,<br/>
casts its regal shadow on the mirroring<br/>
surface, and down its steep sides, dashing<br/>
and foaming down, down from the far<br/>
region where the untrodden snow lies under<br/>
an ever-cloudless sky, dashes a mountain<br/>
brooklet, bearing to the lake in tribute of<br/>
impetuous waters; and the lake, taking the<br/>
sparkling treasure to its deep bosom, sends<br/>
it forth in a foam-tipped stream, winding<br/>
quietly away through the village to gladden<br/>
the hearts of weary-footed housewives. On<br/>
either side of the public road clusters the<br/>
village, with its quaint little houses of squar-<br/>
ed pine logs, painted a dull red, and cov-<br/>
ered with mossy thatch. The grey old<br/>
church stands just at the mountain's foot,<br/>
and many an old legend and strange story<br/>
will they tell you as you biter in the sombre<br/>
twilight of its low, massive arches. In the<br/>
grassy churchyard round where, year after<br/>
year, year after year, for, oh! so long, sire<br/>
and son have lain down side by side, sleep-<br/>
ing the same dreamless sleep, is shown a<br/>
spot where rest, they say, the ashes of a<br/>
grim old sea king, who spent his lifetime<br/>
plowing the stormy seas, seething, with right<br/>
mighty eddies.... whatever his hair desti-<br/>
ed, and reaching even the green slopes of<br/>
Vineland in his wild roamings. "He wan-<br/>
dered east, he wandered west, till, weary<br/>
of his wanderings, he returned to his old<br/>
boyhood's haunts and sleeps beneath the<br/>
turf his childish feet had pressed. Ah! poor<br/>
old sea king; another king, earl in royal<br/>
purple, sitting on his Hon-sarnished throne<br/>
of gold and ivory, the wisest, the rich-<br/>
est, the most powerful of the earth, had<br/>
published the sad truth long, long before<br/>
You : "The eye is not satisfied with see-<br/>
ing, nor the ear with hearing." I doubt<br/>
if it were ever even in his day; I fear Tubal<br/>
Cain read it in the glare of his molten metals,<br/>
and that the "longing for what is not" min-<br/>
gled its waiting voice with the harping of<br/>
Jabal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace be with you, weary old Viking:<br/>
perchance to Him, all seeing as all holy,<br/>
the crimes of Blood and violence scream not<br/>
with deeper crimson than our dastard sins,<br/>
which scarce call forth a sigh of penitence,<br/>
or tinge our cheeks with shame. God pity<br/>
us!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A sabbath stillness reigns around this<br/>
little village, broken only by the laugh of<br/>
shout of children, the voices of women<br/>
talking to their neighbors, or the ringing of<br/>
the ax on the sturdy mountain pine; and<br/>
at evening, echoed and re-echoed by the<br/>
deep gorges, are heard the plaintive call of<br/>
the milkmaids and the lowing of the quiet<br/>
herds. In this sequestered nook life flows<br/>
on in a calm, unruffled current. A stranger<br/>
gazing on the tranquil scene, beholding<br/>
everywhere hale health and peace and plen-<br/>
ty, would exclaim: "Surely, here, if any<br/>
where on earth, must dwell pure innocence<br/>
and happiness. Ah! me! the Devil is a<br/>
woolgrown weight, and manages to keep his<br/>
mental upon a good horse with all his brustle.<br/>
Though he doubtless holds his high court<br/>
in great cities, and finds in potent oppor-<br/>
tunity a fruitful aid; yet there's not on all<br/>
this great round world a spot so tiny or<br/>
remote that he'll neglect it, if inhabited by<br/>
man. Traces of his nimble fingers show<br/>
themselves even here, in this lonely moun-<br/>
tain village, and in and aOows beside the<br/>
office of the holy man, whose voice from<br/>
week to week awakes the echoes of that<br/>
quaint old church, no empty sinecure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At some distance from this village, there<br/>
stood, many years ago, a little brown house,<br/>
weather-beaten and old, but strong and<br/>
sturdy. A gaily heritage of sunny mea-<br/>
dow lands and fertile fields stretched out<br/>
on every side, and huge, substantial barns,<br/>
that scarce could hold the teeming harvests,<br/>
clustered round the little brown house, mak-<br/>
ing its dwarfed proportions seem yet more<br/>
pigmy. Large flocks grazed in the pasture,<br/>
and the air was filled with the lowing of<br/>
cattle, the cackle of poultry, and all the<br/>
sounds that tell of rural abundance. Here,<br/>
without wife or child, dwelt Hans Ander-<br/>
sen, the richest man in the villiage around.<br/>
Many times and oft, the simple folks would<br/>
gaze upon his hem, broad fields, and<br/>
burning barns, and sigh, "If I were rich<br/>
Hans Andersen," hopelessly and long-<br/>
ingly, as we would say, "as rich as Roths-<br/>
child."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps none thought this half so often.<br/>
or so earnestly as Franz Leihnalt, who<br/>
lived in a cot on the mountain side, from<br/>
which he could view his neighbor's smiling<br/>
fields. He and his brother, many years<br/>
his junior, followed the calling of wood-<br/>
cutters in the neighboring forest. No soon-<br/>
er had the first pale heralds of the day<br/>
appeared, chasing the shadows to their<br/>
lurking places, than their steady strokes<br/>
resonated through the forest: and not till<br/>
the sun was hid and deep gloom gathered<br/>
among the trees, did they wend their weary<br/>
way homeward. Few merry-makings could<br/>
boast Franz's presence; but when he did<br/>
appear, at bridal or at Christmas feast he<br/>
sat with the old men, listening to their<br/>
wisdom, and mingled not with the bols-<br/>
terous rout of younger revelers. To wo-<br/>
man's charms he seemed impervious. No<br/>
female glance, were it sly or artless, bright<br/>
or tender, could bring a glow to his swart<br/>
cheek, or quicken a pulse of his coldheart.<br/>
Tis needless to say, that while gravenhends<br/>
of families praised him, saying, "Twould<br/>
be a lucky girl who got so saving and in-<br/>
dustrious husband," he was no favorite with<br/>
the bright-eyed Swedish maidens, on whose<br/>
ruby lips he was "Old Franz Lein ardt"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
while his cheek was yet decked with the<br/>
silken down of early manhood; butt, alas!<br/>
Franz cared as little for their frown or favor<br/>
as for the linnets that his ringing axscared<br/>
from their accentomed perch. Gold was the<br/>
idol of his worship. Even in the little world<br/>
in which he lived he saw that poverty was<br/>
a reproach no virtue or sense could quite<br/>
wipe away, and that wealth conferred a<br/>
dignity that mere good qualities could not<br/>
command. What wonder, then, that he<br/>
longed to close his grasp on the weird<br/>
necromancer that can make men bow hum-<br/>
bly down, calling deformity beauty, vice<br/>
virtue, futility intelligence. Fifty times a<br/>
day the eager, envious wish, " If I were as<br/>
rich as Hans Andersen," swelled his heart<br/>
or found utterance at his lips. He knew<br/>
the wish was wild, and unattainable as the<br/>
cry of a babe for a star. Working from<br/>
earliest dawn to latest twilight, spending<br/>
but what a bare necessity required, he<br/>
needs must know, count as he would, that<br/>
a patriarch's life would not suffice to gain<br/>
wealth at that poor, plodding rate; but he<br/>
thirsted for gain, and laid coin to coin.<br/>
The demons Envy and Love of Gold, which<br/>
he strove not against, hardened his heart<br/>
and held it closely barred, lest Pity, Love,<br/>
or Joy, should enter; and as the years rol-<br/>
led on, his life grew barren of kind words<br/>
or generous deeds, and in his eyes misfor-<br/>
tune seemed a crime.  Yet he was sober,<br/>
and industrious; none went more regularly<br/>
to the church or tent with deeper reverence<br/>
in prayer, and this he deemed religion,<br/>
forgetting, as to many of us do, that He<br/>
prayeth well who loveth well both man, and<br/>
liveth and hears.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His brother Flemming, handsome, gen-<br/>
erous, and good natured, with a ready laugh<br/>
and readier jest, was of a very different<br/>
spirit; and wherever fun, or good fellow-<br/>
ship, brought the neighbors together, there<br/>
was Flemming. Envy was unknown to<br/>
him. Little cared he how much the heavy-<br/>
headed harvests of Hans Andersen's fields<br/>
waved their golden treasures before his eyes,<br/>
so long as Christina's ringlets of brighter<br/>
gold shone in the sunlight or were tossed<br/>
against his cheek by wanton breeze. Hans<br/>
Andersen's herds might have loved them-<br/>
selves hoarse without winning a thought,<br/>
when, with her hand in his, they skimmed<br/>
over the frozen lake, the rattle of the skates<br/>
and the voice of the skaters making merry<br/>
music under the laughing stars, while the<br/>
bright Aurora painted the dark vault of<br/>
heaven and red and crimson till the snow-<br/>
clad earth grew rosy. Perhaps as they<br/>
gathered [???] in the sombre forest to strew<br/>
upon the floors, and Christina stood hold-<br/>
ing her arms to receive the fragrant tips,<br/>
her innocent eyes cast upwards, pure and<br/>
blue as dew-moistened field flowers, he may<br/>
have wished for wealth to deck her with a<br/>
crimson bodice and silken kirtle, and put<br/>
a ring of gold upon her dimpled hand; but<br/>
avarice had no place in his heart. A pen-<br/>
iless orphan was the fair haired Christina,<br/>
and maid of the village inn; but when the<br/>
weary working day was over, and Flem-<br/>
ming received from her hands, his mug of<br/>
homebrewed ale and oaten cake, what<br/>
prince so blest! Love breathed upon them;<br/>
the humble cot become an elysium, and<br/>
each with ecstasy ruled supreme over that<br/>
boundless empire—a loving heart. Why<br/>
are ye so fleeting, oh happy days of warm<br/>
young love! when a look or word has<br/>
power to swell the heart with joy unspeak-<br/>
able, and tinge life's weary, rugged road<br/>
with all Hope's rainbow tints! It is need-<br/>
less to say that Franz looked on this wooing<br/>
with no favoring eyes, and when in the<br/>
course of time the young people changed<br/>
courtship's fairy-land for the sober realities<br/>
of matrimony, he heaped many bitter, ang-<br/>
ry reproaches on his brother. Forgetting<br/>
that He who said "Thou shalt not steal,"<br/>
said also, "He that loveth not his brother<br/>
abideth in death." Franz thought himself<br/>
blameless because he made a just division<br/>
of his hoarded gains, though he robbed<br/>
the young couple of what God had made<br/>
their due—a brother's love and sympathy;<br/>
and Flemming, his heart wounded and<br/>
estranged, went with his bride to the neigh-<br/>
boring city to push his fortunes mid its<br/>
crowd and bustle.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
General Robert
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Robert Edmund Lee is the son<br/>
of Gen. Henry Lee, of Revolutionary mem-<br/>
ory, and known as "Light Horse Harry,"<br/>
whose mother was the beautiful Miss Grim-<br/>
es, General Washington's first love, and<br/>
whom he celebrated as the "lowland<br/>
beauty." General Harry Lee was twice<br/>
married. By the first marriage he had two<br/>
children, (Henry, an officer in the war of<br/>
1812,) and Lucy. By the second wife—-a<br/>
Miss Carter, of Shirley-—he had five child-<br/>
ren, two daughters, Anne and Mildred,<br/>
and three sons. The sons were Charles<br/>
Carter Robert Edmund, (the general,)<br/>
and Sidney Smith, the last-named officer<br/>
in our navy, now in the rebel navy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Robert E. Lee was born in 1807.<br/>
and is, consequently, fifty-seven years of<br/>
age. He graduated second in his class, in<br/>
1822 (Judge Chalres Mason, of his city,<br/>
and formerly Commissioner of Patents,<br/>
standing first in that class,) and was assign-<br/>
ed to the Engineer Corps as second lieuten-<br/>
ant; in 1835 Assistant Astronomer, fix-<br/>
ing the boundary between the States of Ohio<br/>
and Michigan; in 1836 he was chief engin-<br/>
er under Scott, in Mexico, and greatly<br/>
distinguished, being promoted successively,<br/>
by merit, major, lieutenant colonel and<br/>
colonel; for his gallantry; in 1852 super-<br/>
intendent Military Academy; in 1855<br/>
transferred as lieutenant colonel of the new<br/>
regiment of cavalry; March 16th, 1861,<br/>
promoted colonel of the First cavalry; re-<br/>
signed April 25th following, and reluct-<br/>
antly embarked in the rebellion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following are the children of Gen-<br/>
eral Lee:  GEORGE WASHINGTON CUSTIS<br/>
LEE, about thirty-three years of age; MARY<br/>
CUSTIS LEE, about thirty; WILLIAM FITZ-<br/>
HUGH LEE, about twenty-seven; ANNIE<br/>
LEE, died at Berkeley Springs in 1863, and<br/>
would have been now about twenty-five;<br/>
AGNES LEE, about twenty-three; ROBERT<br/>
E. LEE, about twenty; MILDRED LEE, about<br/>
eighteen. None of them have married ex-<br/>
cept WILLIAM HENRY FITZHUGH, whose<br/>
wife, MRS. CHARLOTT WICKHAM, died at<br/>
Richmond in 1868.  The eldest son, GEOR-<br/>
GE, graduated at the head of his class, at<br/>
West Point, in 1854, and was a first lieu-<br/>
tenant in the corps of engineers when he fol-<br/>
lowed his father into the Southern service.<br/>
WILLIAM HENRY was farming upon the<br/>
White House estate, which belonged to the<br/>
Custis inheritance, when it was opened.<br/>
He was commissioned second lieutenant in<br/>
the 6th infantry in 1857, but resigned in<br/>
1859. ROBERT was at a military school in<br/>
Virginia. The sons, it is well known, are<br/>
all officers in the rebellion. The three<br/>
surviving daughters are with their mother,<br/>
who it is believed, has latterly been at<br/>
Lynchburg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. CUSTIS, at the time of his death,<br/>
owned some two hundred slaves, who, by<br/>
his will, were to be free at the termination<br/>
of five years from his death, which period<br/>
expired October 10th, 1862. The most of<br/>
these slaves were kept on the White House<br/>
estate, and the valuable portion were<br/>
retained South; some twenty or more old-<br/>
men and women and children were left at<br/>
Arlington. Mr. Curtis' mother owned the<br/>
White House estate, and resided there when<br/>
she became the wife of General Washing-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_5_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 1st. inst. at 3.20 p. m. Mr. Charles<br/>
G. Allen aged about 37 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. A. was a native of Andover, Mass.<br/>
U. S. of America, and had been in Siam for<br/>
about 7 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_5_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A combination of Chiuannam has been<br/>
discovered which had formed some design<br/>
against the government. A number of<br/>
muskets, pikes, badges &c. were also dis-<br/>
covered. Rumour says the combination<br/>
amounted in number to about three thou-<br/>
sand. The leader was a pretty officer under<br/>
the government, and a Hokien Chinaman.<br/>
He, it appears acknowledged his design,<br/>
and has been banished the country. Some<br/>
reports say he was disposed of by dumping<br/>
him into the gulf, but it appears upon re-<br/>
liable authority that he was placed on<br/>
board of the Siamese Barque Castle bound
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
for Hong Kong, with the injunction that<br/>
if he returned his head would pay the pe-<br/>
nalty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya is expected to<br/>
leave Singapore for this port, about the<br/>
20th mst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that the Siamese Barque<br/>
Goldfinder, Capt. de Castro, has been lost,<br/>
two days out from Hongkong, and all on<br/>
board except one person, perished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By private letters from Petchaburee we<br/>
learn that the prospects for the next crop<br/>
in that province still continues fair. Af-<br/>
ter a short season of drought any fears<br/>
that may have existed have been removed<br/>
by the copious rains which have fallen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that the persons found<br/>
guilty of counterfeiting ots a few weeks<br/>
since, have been released by paying a fine<br/>
of less than one thousand Ticals. Report<br/>
says that they were treated thus leniently<br/>
because their counterfeit money is so im-<br/>
perfect an imitation as to be little likely to<br/>
pass for the genuine coin, and that there<br/>
was so little of it made as to be of no es-<br/>
sential damage to the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Garden Rambles in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following article was written not<br/>
long since, by a person who spent a short<br/>
time in Siam. The article may be taken<br/>
as a specimen of a book preparing on<br/>
Siam by the same person.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a climate so hot and humid as that of<br/>
Siam, (mean annual temperature, eighty-<br/>
three degrees Fahrenheit,) vegetable life<br/>
rejoices in perennial and surpassing luxur-<br/>
iance, variety and beauty. Unvisited by<br/>
fell frost, key blast, or arid wind, garden<br/>
and field and wood are clad in living verdure.<br/>
Toward the end of the dry season indeed,<br/>
the leaves wear a tinge of brown and the<br/>
grasses of straw, but a few showers, and all<br/>
are fresh and green again. The change of<br/>
leafage is a little perceptible, the dying of<br/>
the old and the budding of the new on most<br/>
trees being simultaneous. Leaf, flow-<br/>
er and fruit together, and such wondrous<br/>
variety and exuberance!  Every where na-<br/>
ture is prodigal, on mountain peak and<br/>
valley-bottom, in frequented street and by<br/>
river side, every where she spreads her gifts.<br/>
If earth be too narrow, she goes up and<br/>
decks the house-top and wall with shrub<br/>
and vine; she climbs the trees, loading root,<br/>
trunk and branch with epidendra and par-<br/>
asites, and leaps from top to top, festooning<br/>
and sreading still forest depths with vines,<br/>
leaves and blossoms; she hangs in air the<br/>
orchard's 'outlandish roads and marvellous<br/>
flowers;' she goes into the streams and in-<br/>
vades their muddy beds with filibustering<br/>
atap or mangrove; and upon the ponds,<br/>
covering their calm waters with cress, lily<br/>
and lotus; while down beneath the gulf she<br/>
lays out vast parterres of curious sea-plants.<br/>
The broad, alluvial river-valleys, and most<br/>
mountainous regions are densely covered<br/>
with huge and lofty trees, and in many<br/>
parts with a heavy, tangled, impenetrable<br/>
undergrowth. The districts under cultiva-<br/>
tion are of wonderful fertility, manifold<br/>
rewarding the rude and indolent labors of<br/>
the husbandman. Bangkok, the capital<br/>
seems dropped down amid a great forest of<br/>
fruit-trees, shade-trees and vines. The ex-<br/>
tended fields trenched, ridged and planted,<br/>
the orchards and vineyards of other lands,<br/>
are here named 'Gardens.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the margin of the river-bank, which<br/>
loving hearts called 'Garden Reach,' thickly<br/>
screening from the too inquisitive grass of<br/>
the many passing boats, the old bamboo<br/>
house, which the same loving hearts called<br/>
'Home,' grew the cocos nucifera. It is the<br/>
clink of the Sinese, the—atap (from the<br/>
Malay word for thatch) of the European.<br/>
A single stalk rising from the mud and tide<br/>
to the height of eight or ten feet, with long<br/>
dark green leaves, close set, like the lam-<br/>
ing of a feather, it is one of the humblest<br/>
and yet most useful of the palms. The<br/>
leaves separated from the common stalk,<br/>
doubled and strung together by woman<br/>
and children on bamboo splits, in pieces<br/>
two feet wide and one and a half long, form<br/>
the waterproof roofing and siding of the<br/>
bamboo houses. Resembling in color,<br/>
when dry, corn leaves, costing six dollars<br/>
per thousand, and lasting three or four<br/>
years, they're a cheap and not unhandsome<br/>
housing. A few steps, and we stand by<br/>
the 'light, feathery, tree-like grass,' of which<br/>
the wondering historians of Alexander's<br/>
conquests first told the ancient West. How<br/>
gracefully, beautifully, the bamboo, with<br/>
slender stalk and bright green spray sways,<br/>
to-and-fro with every passing breeze! Does<br/>
it not remind you of the weeping willow in<br/>
the farther West? This species grows in<br/>
clumps or clusters (of fifteen or twenty<br/>
stems) often ten or twelve feet in circum-<br/>
ference and from thirty to fifty in height.<br/>
From large, tough, inter-grown roots spring<br/>
the smooth, hard, hollow, long and many-<br/>
jointed stalks, which at ten feet begin to<br/>
jut out the branches armed with sharp,<br/>
thick thorns, and adorned with leaves two<br/>
or three inches wide and ten or twelve long.<br/>
There are several other species, some of<br/>
greater size and use. What a blessing al-<br/>
most necessity, the bamboo is to the tropic<br/>
inhabitant! It forms, with the chak or<br/>
atap, three-fourths of the Siamese houses,<br/>
frame, joists, rafters, cave-throughs, floors,<br/>
foundation, (of floating-house,) fences and<br/>
all. With it they go forth to bear their<br/>
burdens, handle their tools, water level their<br/>
walls, pole their boats, yard their sails, cable<br/>
their junks. With it, hardened by fire,<br/>
they spear fish and foem an through it blow<br/>
the poisoned arrow. With it they at home<br/>
again kindle by friction the extinguished<br/>
fire, and castigate the trunks of negligent<br/>
youngster. With its sweet tender shoots<br/>
they relish their rice and fish; from it im-<br/>
bibe the sparkling river or canal. With<br/>
it, cut in to small bits, they make not-jack<br/>
ots moro old than useful. With it accor-<br/>
gan or flute, they beguile the closing day,<br/>
and labor and pastime done. But who can<br/>
recal the more than fourscore enumerated<br/>
user and beauties, of the bamboo?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That is a singular palm: the rattan,<br/>
which furnishes writes for the bamboo<br/>
and atap, for thongs, cordage, cables and<br/>
many other purposes. Its application in<br/>
the moral improvement of criminals is not<br/>
infrequent, and is more painful but less<br/>
ignominious than 'bamboozing'. Its power<br/>
to enhance female bear? however, un-<br/>
familiar to the Siamese fair, though some-<br/>
times subject to Parisian rubes on gala-<br/>
days at the Royal Palace. The purple<br/>
juice of one species enters into the com-<br/>
pound, 'Dragon's Blood' of the apothecar-<br/>
ies. Another, with its long, sharp thorns,<br/>
makes an impassable height. Another, in<br/>
its native forests, creeping among the thick<br/>
underbrush, tangles and toils all into im-<br/>
penetrable barriers, or coiling its stem,<br/>
two or three inches thick, around and up<br/>
the giant trunks, with leaf and flower-cover-<br/>
ed fetters, binds bough to bough and tree<br/>
to tree for hundreds of feet. Rumphius<br/>
mentions those extending twelve to eighteen<br/>
hundred feet, or one fifth to one third of<br/>
a mile from the root. But these little stems<br/>
swinging from the high branches and rootsing<br/>
in the wet trenches at our feet, are not the<br/>
rattan nor the banian.  They are a rather<br/>
ivy-like vine, which will ere long ungrate-<br/>
fully cause the tree kindly supporting them<br/>
to droop and die.  The banana or plantain,<br/>
with its soft green stalk, six or seven inches<br/>
thick—which a rattan could cut to the<br/>
ground—leaping like a mushroom ten or<br/>
eleven feet high; its great green leaves, of-<br/>
ten two feet broad and ten long, finely<br/>
arched, and gently swaying in the breeze,<br/>
or spangled with the rain-drops: its long<br/>
spike from the very top bending with en-<br/>
circling rows of green or yellow fruit, and<br/>
terminating in a large purple flower, is it<br/>
not a thing of beauty?  To the native it is<br/>
indeed a joy forever, with its other-in-season<br/>
fruit, several dozen in number, three to<br/>
three inches in length, three-fourths to two in-<br/>
ches in diameter, all sweet, acid, subacid,<br/>
mealy or juicy, according to the one of the<br/>
thirty or forty varieties. From the tree every<br/>
day of the year, or in pastry or fritters, or<br/>
dried in sugar, it is the pleasant, healthful<br/>
and nutritious food of the young child and<br/>
the old man, the sick and well at home<br/>
and abroad. According to Humboldt, they<br/>
would in a year produce forty-four hundred<br/>
and ten pounds of ripe plantains. From<br/>
the leaf are made dishes, the covering of<br/>
cigars, etc.; from the fibre, wrapping-twine.<br/>
From the folds of the stalks are carved some<br/>
of the finest decorations of festal halls and<br/>
funerals. Hope too, the palm-lifts<br/>
its majestic head, plumed with a dozen or<br/>
more leaves, as many feet long and two or<br/>
three broad, starred with light-yellow<br/>
flowers, and laden with scores of green and<br/>
golden nuts. It is not a strange conceit<br/>
that the name cocoæ is derived from the<br/>
Portuguese (macaco or macaco) for monkey,<br/>
on account of the resemblance which the<br/>
nut, with its three embryo holes (one ger-<br/>
minuative) bears to that animal's facing. As<br/>
you look wistfully up, in a twinkle the boy,<br/>
with cleaver in hand, his waist-cloth, with bare<br/>
feet and hands clasping the nity trunk, is<br/>
literally walking up the rings or grooves<br/>
whence leaves have fallen, up, up, thirty,<br/>
forty, fifty, sixty feet. Stand from under,<br/>
and down pump the nuts in the soft earth.<br/>
Down comes the boy—a cleaver stroke—<br/>
and the bronze Ganymede hands you the<br/>
opened goblet whence you may quaff nec-<br/>
tar the gods might have envied. Another<br/>
stroke, and your gablet is in hemispheres<br/>
and a nice white blue mange is dished<br/>
before you. The congealed and hardened<br/>
cream of the elder nut is a prime ingredient<br/>
of curries. The meat of the yet older is<br/>
sun-dried, pulverized, and then subjected to<br/>
a process similar to tea and sugar-packing<br/>
and wine-pressing. The natives express<br/>
from it, through a perforated tub, with their<br/>
pedal extremities, an oil very pure, and so<br/>
attractive to their taste, that our lamps of<br/>
ten snuffed behind their erect. From<br/>
the husk half-rotted in water, beaten on<br/>
stones and dried, is made the filling of cu-<br/>
shions and beds, from which might also be<br/>
made the very best 'coir' cordage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lan-palm, tapped beneath the flower-<br/>
aloot, gives daily a gallon or two of sweet<br/>
maple-like sap. This rather pleasant drink<br/>
on the third day ferments into the intoxi-<br/>
cating toddy. Boiled, it yields a brown,<br/>
thick, ungranulated sugar, very excellent,<br/>
which is sold in small earthen jars, very<br/>
cheap. The leaves of the tailpot tree lam-<br/>
palm, cut into strips two inches wide and<br/>
twenty long, and rendered smooth and pli-<br/>
able by water and friction, form the leaves<br/>
of the smerged hooks. The area is one of<br/>
the noblest of the noble family. Planted<br/>
in rows eight feet apart, the smooth, slen-<br/>
der trunk rises like a column, straight, leaf-<br/>
less and branchless forty to fifty feet, with<br/>
long, pinnate, gracefully-curving, bright<br/>
green leaves, feathery plume of staminate<br/>
flowers, and hanging clusters of hundreds<br/>
of dark green or reddish orange nuts. A<br/>
step across the trench and the narrow strip<br/>
of weeds and bushes, the only (but usual<br/>
native) boundaries, into the grounds of our<br/>
neighbor, and we shall find yet another<br/>
beautiful sight. It is a field of the plant<br/>
whose leaf's always used with the areca-<br/>
nut. For a moment you might easily im-<br/>
agine yourself in one of the well-kept hop-<br/>
yards of Central New-York. But it is the<br/>
seri or betel pepper (cousin to black and<br/>
red) vine, which, with light green leaves, is<br/>
twining up the poles set in rows between<br/>
the trenches, traversing at intervals of six or<br/>
eight feet the whole field. With what fast-<br/>
idious neatness is every weed and blade of<br/>
grass kept out; how thoroughly softened<br/>
and mellow the soil; how carefully watered<br/>
day by day from the trenches each plant!<br/>
Your off-spirations recall a down-shore Long-<br/>
Island farm in fish-time. Hard by, in large<br/>
earthen jars buried in the ground, are rot-<br/>
ing quantities of fish, and from these scul-<br/>
ptures life is sprinkled every day or two on<br/>
the vines. You will stop to admire the<br/>
rapidity with which the girls are sorting<br/>
and packing, in regular number and circle,<br/>
the leaves for market. The master oversee-<br/>
ing, with the accustomed courtesy of the<br/>
host, orders the betel or scri-leaf tray to be<br/>
passed to you. But you are ignorant as to<br/>
its use, and he politely takes from one dish,<br/>
the hot peppery leaf, plasters it with lime,<br/>
tinged a pretty pink by turmeric, quarters<br/>
with iron shears a hard, astringent areca-<br/>
nut, adds finecut tobacco, rolls all together,<br/>
and presents it. Or with extra politeness,<br/>
if you, through age have lost some teeth,<br/>
he in a small brass cylinder, with an iron<br/>
punch, combines this delectable mixture.<br/>
The pleasure which you decline is one to<br/>
which the Siamese, high and low, male and<br/>
female, young and old, are exceedingly<br/>
addicted. No man of wealth but has in his<br/>
retinue one who bears the "betel-nut" set,<br/>
with its rich vessels of gold and silver. He<br/>
or she of the single wrist-cloth infolds with<br/>
in it the nut and leaf, sometimes carrying<br/>
the latter rolled over the ear. The mouth<br/>
oozing blood-like saliva, and the teeth black-<br/>
ened by burnt cocoa-shell to prevent cor-<br/>
rosion by lime! add nothing, contrary to<br/>
their opinion, to the beauty, not naturally<br/>
excessive, of the people. The defiling stains<br/>
and debris are seen in hut and boat, palace<br/>
and temple. Universally used in the East,<br/>
the betel is mildly stimulating, slightly<br/>
narcotic, and ultimately tonic to the inha-<br/>
bitants of these hot, moist countries. Yet<br/>
another plant of Siam, or rather its Malayan<br/>
dependencies, is the sago from whose del-<br/>
icate pith is chiefly made the flour so much<br/>
esteemed, especially by invalids.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_7_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Marvels of Memory.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some examples of the feats of memory<br/>
would be rejected as altogether fabulous<br/>
had they not been given us on authority of<br/>
the highest respectability. It is related of<br/>
Themistocles that he could call by their<br/>
names every citizen of Athens, though they<br/>
amounted to twenty thousand. Cyrus knew<br/>
the name of every soldier in his army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mithridates, King of Pontus, knew each one<br/>
of his eighty thousand soldiers by his right<br/>
name.  Hugo Grotius, on being present at<br/>
a review of some regiments in France, re-<br/>
called all the names of the single soldiers in<br/>
the order of the roll-call.  Scipio knew all<br/>
the inhabitants of Rome.  Seneca could re-<br/>
peat in order two thousand words heard only<br/>
once.  Cook, the tragedian, is said to have<br/>
committed to memory the entire contents<br/>
of a large daily newspaper.  Lord Granville<br/>
could repeat from beginning to end the New<br/>
Testament in the original Greek.  George<br/>
III. is said never to have forgotten the face<br/>
he had once seen, or the name he had once<br/>
heard.  Racine knew by memory all the<br/>
tragedies of Euripides.  Justus Lipsius ven-<br/>
tured to rehearse the works of Tacitus from<br/>
the first word, to the last, and then from the<br/>
last to the first, even when a man was stand-<br/>
ing before him with a drawn dagger to<br/>
pierce him the very moment he should fail<br/>
to give a single word. Bottegella knew by<br/>
heart whole books, verbatim. Mirandola<br/>
need to commit the contents of a book to<br/>
memory after reading it thrice, and could<br/>
then not only repeat the words forward, but<br/>
backward also. Thomas Cranwell in three<br/>
months committed to memory, when in Italy,<br/>
an entire translation of the Bible as made<br/>
by Erasmus. Leibnitz knew all the old<br/>
Greek and Latin poets by heart, and could<br/>
recite the whole of Virgil, word for word,<br/>
when an old man. Bossuet knew the Bible<br/>
by heart, and could also repeat, verbatim,<br/>
all Homer, Virgil, and Horace, and many<br/>
other works. The Abbé Poule carried all<br/>
his sermons—the compositions of forty<br/>
years—in his head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mozart had a prodigious memory of mu-<br/>
sical sounds. At the early age of fourteen<br/>
he went to Rome to assist at the solemnities<br/>
of Holy Week. Scarcely had he arrived<br/>
there, ere he ran to the Sistine Chapel to<br/>
hear the famous Miserere of Allegri. It<br/>
had been forbidden to take or give a copy of<br/>
this famous piece of music. Aware of this<br/>
prohibition the young German placed him-<br/>
self in a corner and gave the closest atten-<br/>
tion to the music. On leaving the church<br/>
he noted down the entire piece. The Fri-<br/>
day after he heard it a second time, and fol-<br/>
lowed the music with his copy in hand,<br/>
assuring himself of the fidelity of his mem-<br/>
ory. Next day he sang the Miserere at a<br/>
concert, accompanying himself on the harp-<br/>
sichord—a performance which caused so<br/>
great a sensation at Rome that Pope Clement<br/>
XIV. immediately requested that the musi-<br/>
cal prodigy should be presented to him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the most remarkable instances of<br/>
memory we have ever yet met with was that<br/>
of a young Florentine named Magliabechi,<br/>
who died in the year 1714. This young<br/>
man possessed a most insatiable passion for<br/>
reading, and become familiar with nearly<br/>
every book then extant in Europe. He<br/>
seemed to have no taste for any particular<br/>
subject, but read indiscriminately whatever<br/>
came to hand. He was able to retain near-<br/>
ly every thing he read, till he became at<br/>
length a living speaking index of all the<br/>
literature of the age. The learned con-<br/>
sulted him when writing on any subject with<br/>
regard to which they desired information,<br/>
and he was always able to direct them to the<br/>
books which treated upon the matter, desig-<br/>
nating those which discussed it fully, and<br/>
those which merely touched upon it. He<br/>
remembered not only the matter of the<br/>
books, but also the places where they were<br/>
found, and by studying catalogues become<br/>
familiar with the great libraries he had<br/>
never seen. He became librarian to the<br/>
Grand Duke, who one day asked if he could<br/>
obtain a certain very rare book for him.<br/>
"No, sir," was the reply, "for there is but<br/>
one in the world, and that is in the library<br/>
of the Grand Segnior of Constantinople, and<br/>
is the seventh book on the seventh shelf,<br/>
right hand side as you go in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The editor of a New York paper vouches<br/>
for the strict truthfulness of the following:<br/>
Some years ago A held a bond against B<br/>
for several hunderd dollars, having some<br/>
time to run. When the bond became due,<br/>
A made a diligent search for it among his<br/>
papers, but it was not to be found. Know-<br/>
ing to a certainty that the bond had not<br/>
been paid, or otherwise legally disposed of,<br/>
A concluded frankly to inform his neighbor<br/>
B of its loss, and to retry upon his sense of<br/>
justice for its payment. But to his surprise,<br/>
when informed of the loss, B denied ever<br/>
having given such a bond, and strongly in-<br/>
timated a fraudulent design on his part in<br/>
asserting that such a transaction had taken<br/>
place between them. Being unable to prove<br/>
his claim, A was compelled to submit to the<br/>
loss of the debt, and also to the charge of<br/>
dishonourable intentions in urging the de-<br/>
mand. Years passed away, and the affair<br/>
almost ceased to be thought of, when, one<br/>
day, while A was lathing in Charles river,<br/>
he was seized with cramp and came near<br/>
drowning. After sinking and rising several<br/>
times he was seized by a friend and drawn<br/>
to the shore, and carried home apparently<br/>
lifeless. But by application of the usual<br/>
remedies he was restored; and as soon as<br/>
he gained sufficient strength he went to his<br/>
bookcase, took out a book, and from between<br/>
the leaves took out the identical bond which<br/>
had been so long missing. He then stated<br/>
that while drowning and sinking, as he sup-<br/>
posed, to rise no more, there suddenly stood<br/>
out before him, as it were in a picture, every<br/>
act of his life from his childhood to the<br/>
moment when he sank beneth the waters,<br/>
and that among other acts was that of his<br/>
placing that bond in a book and having it<br/>
away in the bookcase. A, armed with the<br/>
long-lost document found in this marvellous<br/>
manner, called upon B, of whom he re-<br/>
covered the debt with interest. Similar<br/>
instances of quickened memory might easily<br/>
be given.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To a truly good man a retentive memory<br/>
is an invaluable boon. In a true and noble<br/>
life, a life full of sympathies and generous<br/>
deeds for the welfare of the race, there must<br/>
exist all the materials for the highest possible<br/>
enjoyment on earth.—Ladies Repository.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_8_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
H. B. M. Family.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The people of this realm have the best<br/>
of reasons for rejoicing in every event which<br/>
consolidate the stability or augments the<br/>
happiness of the Royal Family. Under<br/>
Queen Victoria this nation has enjoyed a<br/>
prosperity and realised a progress which, if<br/>
not wholly without precedents, can be only<br/>
compared with one, and that the most<br/>
glorious reign of our history. Besides this<br/>
we owe to the Queen, and to the Prince<br/>
whom we still lament, the priceless bless-<br/>
ing of a pure Court and of a family life<br/>
and discipline which have made the Royal<br/>
household a praise and an example through-<br/>
out the land. We offer our respectful<br/>
congratulations to the Queen, who again<br/>
sees her illustrious line extended and asur-<br/>
ed, and to the Royal Parents whose hopes<br/>
are once more fulfilled. We salute with<br/>
our warmest good wishes the Child which<br/>
has come to take its place at the royal<br/>
hearth and in the capatious affection of a<br/>
generous people. May Heaven guard its<br/>
tender years, mould and fashion its mind<br/>
to every noble grace and every Christian<br/>
virtue, and make the Prince as dear to our<br/>
children as his Parents are dear to us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London Daily News, June 5th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sizing Down The Ages Of Man.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The man that dies youngest, as might<br/>
be expected, perhaps, is the railway brakes-<br/>
man. His average age is only 27. Yet<br/>
this must be taken with some allowance,<br/>
from the fact that hardly any but young<br/>
and active men are employed in this capa-<br/>
city. At the same-age dies the factory<br/>
workwoman, through the combined influ-<br/>
ence of confined air, sedentary posture,<br/>
scant wages, and unremitting toil. Then<br/>
comes the railway baggage man, who is<br/>
smashed on an average at 30. Milliners<br/>
and dressmakers tire but very little longer.<br/>
The average of the one is 32 and of the other<br/>
33. The engineer, the fireman, the con-<br/>
ductor, the powder maker, the well digger,<br/>
and the factory operative, all of whom are<br/>
exposed to sudden and violent deaths, die<br/>
on an average under the age of 35. The<br/>
cutler, the dyer, the leather dresser, the<br/>
apothecary, the confectioner, the cigar ma-<br/>
ker, the printer, the silversmith, the paint-<br/>
er, the shoe cutter, the engraver, and the<br/>
machinist, all of whom led confined lives<br/>
in an unwholesome atmosphere, do not<br/>
reach the average age of 40. The musi-<br/>
cian blows his breath all out of his body at<br/>
40.  Then come trades that are active, or<br/>
in a pure air.  The baker lives to an ave-<br/>
rage age of 43, the butcher to 49, the<br/>
brickmaker to 47, the carpenter to 49, the<br/>
furnace man to 42, the mason to 48, the<br/>
stone cutter to 43, the tanner to 49, the<br/>
tinsmith to 43, the weaver to 44, the cook<br/>
to  45, the inn-keeper to 46, the labourer<br/>
to 44, the domestic servant (female) to 33,<br/>
the tailor to 43, the tailoress to 41.  Why<br/>
should the barber live till 50, if not to<br/>
show the virtues there is in personal neat-<br/>
ness and soap and water!  Those who<br/>
average over half a century among me-<br/>
chanics, are those who keep their muscles<br/>
and lungs in health and moderate exercise,<br/>
and not troubled with weighty cares.  The<br/>
blacksmith hammers till 52, and the wheel-<br/>
wright till 50.  The miller lives to be<br/>
whitened with the age of 61.  The rope-<br/>
maker lengthens the thread of his life to 55.<br/>
merchants, wholesale and retail, to 62.<br/>
Professional men live longer than is gener-<br/>
ally supposed. Litigation kills clients<br/>
sometimes, but seldom lawyers, for they<br/>
average 55. Physicians prove their use-<br/>
fulness by prolonging their own lives to<br/>
the same period. The sailor averages 43,<br/>
the caulker 64, the sailmaker 52, the steve-<br/>
dore 55, the ferryman 65, and the pilot 64.<br/>
A dispensation of Providence that "Maine<br/>
Law" men may consider incomprehensible<br/>
is, that brewers and distillers live to the<br/>
ripe old age of 64. Last and longest lived<br/>
come pamper, 67, and "gentlemen" 62.<br/>
The only two classes that do nothing for<br/>
themselves and live on their neighbours,<br/>
outlast all the rest.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_8_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Royalist Church Sympathies.—
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is curious to observe the sympathies of<br/>
the royalist or conservative parties all over<br/>
Europe, in hoping for the destruction of<br/>
this republic, and deprecating our success<br/>
in the suppression of the rebellion. Profess-<br/>
or Hentsenberg, of Berlin, of the Establish-<br/>
ed Lutheran Church, and a high saint in<br/>
religious pretension, in his Annual Re-<br/>
view—a dictatorial publication, called by<br/>
the students "The speech from the throne"<br/>
—finds nothing to report from America, but<br/>
the people here "have steadily persist-<br/>
ed, with more than Pharaonic obstinacy,<br/>
in this same striving against God." Their<br/>
heart is "hardened, like that of Pharaoh,<br/>
sevenfold." "This obduration," he proceeds,<br/>
"shows itself in various ways, especially in<br/>
the re-election of Lincoln, that man of blood<br/>
and tears."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lying.—"So, Tom, that old liar, Dick<br/>
Fibbins, is dead.—"Yes, his yarns are<br/>
wound up; he'll lie no more—the old<br/>
rascal.—"Indeed, it's my opinion,<br/>
Tom, that he'll lie still!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Setting a Man-Trap" is the title given<br/>
to the picture of a pretty young lady arrang-<br/>
ing her curls at a mirror.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-16_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r9c">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST AUG 16TH 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="rd9">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Bocek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">713</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siam Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Postillon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Greve</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Euzare</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Aug</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Jorean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Etienne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Severs</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">395</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Tonty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">370</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">[....]</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rbf">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Amelie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">French ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">679</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Garmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prussian barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">467</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Julia Ann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">160</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Leonard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Captain</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Gunn &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pontianak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">790</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Graswinckel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Triton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">784</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">British schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">90</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1b2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1b3">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Booek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Da Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Lit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">389</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tik Chi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Poop</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Putaskio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
