---
linkTitle: 'June 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 16th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 11
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK FRIDAY JUNE 16TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 11</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok June 16th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from the United States of A-<br/>
merica by last mail to those of us who are<br/>
citizens of that country is full both of joy<br/>
and sorrow. The surrender of the two prin-<br/>
ciple armies of the rebellion to the Federal<br/>
commander, must be a source of joy to<br/>
the whole civilised world whatever differ-<br/>
ences of opinion may have hitherto existed.<br/>
But it is appalling to think that such a<br/>
struggle which had already cost so much<br/>
blood should end in such a tragedy. Noth-<br/>
ing could be more lamentable than that the<br/>
South after having laid down their arms<br/>
should be avenged by the hand of an assassin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the death of ABRAM LINCOLN at<br/>
such a time as this is a calamity to the<br/>
whole civilized world we presume there are<br/>
few who will attempt—to deny.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The storm which burst upon the United<br/>
States in the spring of 1861, had been gath-<br/>
ering for thirty years. Again and again did<br/>
the Southern leaders break out, and threat-<br/>
en to dissolve the Union, and as often was<br/>
the matter hushed up again by “pouring<br/>
oil upon the troubled waters” and making<br/>
new concessions to the slaveholders. A<br/>
point however was eventually reached be-<br/>
yond which the North could not go. The<br/>
fugitive slave law which was one of the con-<br/>
cessions made, had become a dead letter, as<br/>
the great majority of the people in the<br/>
Northern States could not conscientiously<br/>
whole civilized world we presume there are<br/>
ed the slaveholders very much.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The refusal to admit the taking of slave<br/>
property into any of the free states or ter-<br/>
ritories, was also very irritating to the<br/>
South. When however a strong opposition<br/>
arose in the North to the extention of slave<br/>
territory, the wrath of the South was be-<br/>
yond bounds.—In 1856 the Republican<br/>
party was formed, which adopted as the prin-<br/>
cipal plank of its platform the leaving of<br/>
slavery in the states where it already ex-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
isted, to those states themselves, but to op-<br/>
pose the extention of slave territory. This<br/>
the South declared was not a national par-.<br/>
ty, nd should such a party be successful<br/>
they would immediately secede. The par-<br/>
ty with J. C. Fremont at its head was de-<br/>
feated in 1856. Mr. Buchanan. was elected,<br/>
and although a Northern man was a strong<br/>
Southern sympathizer. He chose his cabinet<br/>
officers chiefly from the South. During<br/>
the whole of his administration they were<br/>
preparing for secession. They robbed the<br/>
treasury, and sent all the arms and muni-<br/>
tions of war South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During this time, however, Providence<br/>
was raising up one who should guide the<br/>
nation through. the pending struggle. The<br/>
Republican party in 1860 nominated A-<br/>
bram Lincoln as their Candidate. Why he<br/>
was nominated, we suppose no one can tell.<br/>
He was at the time comparatively unknown<br/>
to the nation. He had raised himself by<br/>
force of character to a respectable position<br/>
as a lawyer in Illinois and eventually to con-<br/>
gress. But when the Republican conven-<br/>
tion at Chicago in 1860 could not agree<br/>
on any of its prominent candidates, and<br/>
began to look around for one not so exten-<br/>
sively known, why they chose Mr. Lincoln<br/>
rather than a hundred others we can't tell,<br/>
unless they were governed by an overruling<br/>
Providence, Mr. Lincoln was elected. The<br/>
storm broke upon the country. Lincoln<br/>
soon proved himself to be no ordinary man.<br/>
The manner in which he took hold of the<br/>
reins of government and conducted the<br/>
country through that fearful contest, is<br/>
familiar to all who read the news of the<br/>
day. He was the choice of the majority of<br/>
the people, and when the flag of the nation<br/>
was insulted, that people rushed to the as-<br/>
sistance of their Chief Magistrate. Every<br/>
thing that a free people could do to sustain<br/>
his hands was done. Still he had not only<br/>
a powerful enemy to contend against, but he<br/>
had also a very strong opposition party in<br/>
the North, which was throwing every ob-<br/>
stacle possible in his way. He had also<br/>
the opposition of the principle powers of<br/>
Europe to contend against. At the out<br/>
break of the rebellion scarcely a power in<br/>
Europe believed the North would ever be<br/>
able to subdue it. The whole tone of the<br/>
press, and the influence of the principle<br/>
men of England, and France, with a few<br/>
honorable exceptions, was to that effect.<br/>
Not the least daunted by all this, President<br/>
Lincoln remained firm in his purpose to<br/>
preserve the Union. With that object he<br/>
started out, and he firmly adhered to it.<br/>
True he sometimes, in cases of military,<br/>
necessity, resorted to expedients, which<br/>
were declared by his enemies to be not in<br/>
accordance with his avowed object, but<br/>
still he retrected nothing. No President ever<br/>
relied more upon his own judgment and<br/>
resources than did Mr. Lincoln.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wholly a self made man, and never hav-<br/>
ing had the advantages of a finished educa-<br/>
tion, still his state papers are acknowledged<br/>
to be models of style and power. In his<br/>
social qualities, although the butt of ridicule<br/>
for courtly Journals, and often betrayed too<br/>
clearly that he had not been brought up in<br/>
the atmosphere of the court, still he possess-<br/>
ed high conversational powers, an original-<br/>
ity of thought, and richness of joke, which<br/>
any courtier might have envied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was no less renowned for his honesty.<br/>
Actuated by no ambitious motives he start-<br/>
ed out with one object in view, and of that<br/>
object he never lost sight. The preservation<br/>
of the Federal Union was his highest am-<br/>
bition and the people felt the country was<br/>
safe in his hands. “Honest Abe. Lincoln”<br/>
will be the watchword of future generations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He also displayed great ability in steer-<br/>
ing the country clear of foreign difficulties.<br/>
The strong sympathy displayed for the re-<br/>
bels among certain classes in England, and<br/>
the supplying them with arms and muni-<br/>
tions of war and vessels to prey upon the<br/>
commerce of the United States, was cal-<br/>
culated to irritate the loyal people of those<br/>
States. There was a strong pressure from<br/>
certain influential quarters to demand from<br/>
England reparation for property destroyed<br/>
by the Alabama, and other privateers, and<br/>
to push that demand even to war if neces-<br/>
sary. Mr. Lincoln's course however was<br/>
such that no one could take exceptions to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The magnanimity which he in the end<br/>
displayed towards his own enemies, and the<br/>
enemies of the country, of itself proves<br/>
him a great man. The rebels had tried to<br/>
destroy the country, they had heaped upon<br/>
him also the vilest abuse, they starved, and<br/>
murdered in cold blood the Union prisoners<br/>
but still, when they yielded, he manifested<br/>
no disposition for revenge, no desire to vent<br/>
a personal spite, but was willing to bury<br/>
the past, and offer the right hand of fellow-<br/>
ship to all who were willing to return.<br/>
The crowning act of his life however, or<br/>
that which will perpetuate his name to pos-<br/>
terity more than any thing else, was his<br/>
emancipation proclamation, freeing millions<br/>
of the human race who were held in bond-<br/>
age.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That President Lincoln should be per-<br/>
mitted to fall by the hand of wickedness<br/>
just at this time, when the rebellion was<br/>
subdued, is one of those dark Providences<br/>
which we cannot penetrate. His work<br/>
doubtless was done. Taken away however<br/>
at this time, he will live forever in the hearts<br/>
of the American people. Had he been<br/>
permitted to live longer, he might possibly<br/>
have committed some blunder which could<br/>
have tarnished his fair name. Had James<br/>
Buchanan been called away before he oc-<br/>
cupied the Presidential chair, he might<br/>
have been lamented in his death by a grate-<br/>
ful people. But he disgraced the Presi-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
dential chair by his weakness and Southern<br/>
sympathy, and will go down to his grave<br/>
unlamented by his countrymen. Presi-<br/>
dent Lincoln was undoubtedly a firm be-<br/>
liever in the doctrines of Christianity, and<br/>
had a high respect for the services of the<br/>
sanctuary. It is to be hoped therefore that<br/>
amidst all his other duties he did not whol-<br/>
ly forget his duty to his Great Creator and<br/>
Redeemer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TUILERIES-During the
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Revolution of 1789.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Palace of Versailles since its com-<br/>
pletion in 1702, had been the usual re-<br/>
sidence of the French Monarch. Here<br/>
Louis XIV spent the last years of his long<br/>
reign, and Louis XV the whole of his.<br/>
For the first fifteen years, also, after Louis<br/>
XVI came to the throne, the Court con-<br/>
tinued to be held at Versailles. But on<br/>
the memorable 5th of Oct. 1789, that ill-<br/>
fated Monarch and his Queen left this sumpt-<br/>
uous abode never to return. On their<br/>
arrival at Paris in the evening, in the hands<br/>
of the mob, they were conducted first to<br/>
the Hotel de Ville and thence to the<br/>
Tuileries. This Palace was their ordinary<br/>
dwelling, and eventually it may be said<br/>
their prison, till the deposition of the King<br/>
on the 10th Aug. 1792, when he and his<br/>
family was removed to a more secure<br/>
place of confinement. The removal of<br/>
Louis XVI from Versailles to Paris was<br/>
followed in a few days by that of the<br/>
National Assembly. The first sitting which<br/>
this body held in the national capital wasAssembly,<br/>
on the 19th Oct. 1789, when they met in<br/>
one of the Halls of the Archiepiscopal<br/>
palace in the Ile de la Cite. Here they<br/>
remained till the 9th Nov. when they re-<br/>
moved to an apartment, which had been<br/>
prepared for them, in the Manege, a riding<br/>
house attached to the Tuileries. The Hall<br/>
in which the assembly met is said to have<br/>
been both inconvenient and mean. *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The convention which followed also met<br/>
in this apartment on the 21st of Sept. 1792,<br/>
but removed in April next to the splendid<br/>
hall in the Palace formerly called the Salle<br/>
des Machines, and now forming the Salle<br/>
des Spectacles, or Theatre. On the closing of<br/>
the convention and the establishment of<br/>
the constitution of the year III, in Oct.<br/>
1795, this Hall was appropriated to the<br/>
council of the Ancients, and the council<br/>
of the Five Hundred met in the Manege,<br/>
which was repaired for their use. The<br/>
two legislative bodies continued to occupy<br/>
the same place of meeting till they were<br/>
transferred to St. Cloud by Bonaparte in<br/>
Nov. 1799. †<br/>
The 28th of Feb. is known in the annals<br/>
of the revolution by the name of la journee<br/>
des poignards, the day of the poniards. On<br/>
the morning of that day the mob, (let the<br/>
reader imagine the bravest Irish rabble to<br/>
be ever witnessed, and then he will hardly<br/>
realize the grovelling characteristics of a<br/>
French mob,) had assembled in consider-<br/>
able strength in the Faubourg St. Antoine,<br/>
with the intention of proceeding to Vin-<br/>
cennes and demolishing the palace there,<br/>
and massacring every one who should offer<br/>
the least opposition to their unnatural fury.<br/>
These rioters were headed by Santerre<br/>
the Commandant of the Faubourg. They<br/>
had actually carried their purposes into<br/>
execution to some extent, when Gen.<br/>
Lafayette arrived at the head of a detach-<br/>
ment of the national guards, and without<br/>
much difficulty dispersed them, taking<br/>
fifty or sixty of their prisoners. On his<br/>
return to Paris, however, Lafayette encount-<br/>
ered considerable opposition from the<br/>
rabble, and so much personal outrage that<br/>
he narrowly escaped with his life. His<br/>
aid-de-camp who was mistaken for him<br/>
was fired at more than once as he passed<br/>
through the wood of Vincennes. In the<br/>
course of the evening the rumour of these<br/>
events spread over the capital. It was<br/>
said that Gen. Lafayette was killed, and<br/>
that the royal residence was on the point<br/>
of being demolished. Alarmed by these<br/>
reports, about nine or ten o'clock that<br/>
night, a considerable body of the noblesse<br/>
and other persons of monarchical prin-<br/>
ciples, amounting it has been said, to<br/>
about five or six hundred persons, present-<br/>
ed themselves at the Tuileries and ob-<br/>
tained admission by means of orders<br/>
obtained from the Duke de Villiquier and<br/>
the gentlemen of the bed chamber. They<br/>
were armed with swords, pistols, hunting<br/>
knives and daggers. They came they said<br/>
to defend the person of the king in which<br/>
they believed to be in imminent danger.<br/>
Whatever Louis might have thought of<br/>
the motives which inspired this offer, he<br/>
felt its extreme imprudence, and than placed<br/>
as he was, it was impossible to avail<br/>
himself of it. The Parisian guard, to<br/>
whom the defence of the palace properly<br/>
belonged, exclaimed against their introduc-<br/>
tion, and the king in reply to their profes-<br/>
sious of loyalty, and zeal for his safety,<br/>
desired them to surrender their arms and<br/>
retire, adding " I am in perfect security<br/>
amidst the national guard." At last La-<br/>
fayette himself who had been reported<br/>
killed, made his appearance. Perceiving<br/>
at once the disastrous consequences which<br/>
were likely to result from their rash enter-<br/>
prise, he could not refrain from insisting in<br/>
warm language that they should immedi-<br/>
ately deliver up their arms. They however<br/>
attempted to resist his demand, but were<br/>
without much difficulty overpowered, and<br/>
at last laid down their arms, as ordered, on<br/>
the tables which stood in the anti-chamber<br/>
of the royal apartment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These miscellaneous weapons were at<br/>
once seized by the national guard as trophies<br/>
of their victory, and their late possessors<br/>
were then subjected to the additional hu-<br/>
miliation of being made to pass forth from<br/>
the palace between two rows of those<br/>
troops, who, with as little generosity as<br/>
could be expected from the jealousy, which<br/>
the known character and political senti-<br/>
ments of the intruders were so well calculated<br/>
to excite, not only insulted the hapless<br/>
cavaliers with hooting and all manner of<br/>
derision, but added still more violent acts<br/>
of outrage and injury on the most distin-<br/>
guished members of the noblesse among<br/>
hemt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is understood that the result of the jour-<br/>
nee des poignards, and the conviction im-<br/>
pressed on the King's mind, led to the re-<br/>
newal in a more urgent manner on the part<br/>
of the royal family, of overtures, which had<br/>
already been made sometime before, to the<br/>
celebrated Mirabeau, to secure the aid of<br/>
his great talents for the monarchical party.<br/>
The negotiation had been completed, the<br/>
orator gained over, the price of his deep<br/>
treachery settled, part of it paid, and the<br/>
plan which he was to commence oper-<br/>
ations in his new character arranged, when<br/>
he was suddenly attacked on the 28th of<br/>
March with an illness which proved fatal on<br/>
the fifth day after. He died on the 2nd<br/>
April 1789. Here let us give a passing<br/>
glance at the real character of this remark-<br/>
able French patriot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Honore Gabriel Riquetti Count de Mira-<br/>
beau, was born at Aix in the year 1749,<br/>
and was one of the Marquis de Mirabeau,<br/>
author of the “Ami des hommes” and one<br/>
of the chiefs of the sect of the Economists.<br/>
This apostle of public liberty was the tyrant<br/>
of his family, and his harshness was one of<br/>
the principal causes of the irregularities<br/>
and vices of his son, whose youth was agi-<br/>
tated by the most violent passions.‡ Return-<br/>
ing to his country, after having served<br/>
some time in Corsica, he at the age of<br/>
twenty five undertook to carry off a young<br/>
lady of interesting appearance, from the<br/>
person to whom she was promised in mar-<br/>
riage. Being little scrupulous about the<br/>
means of accomplishing his object, he made<br/>
use of calumny, and in a little time she who<br/>
was the subject of it, had no other way to<br/>
save her reputation but to marry the man<br/>
who had tarnished it. It was impossible<br/>
that this union could be happy. The mis-<br/>
conduct and dissipated life of Mirabeau<br/>
caused his father to take the most vigorous<br/>
measures against him, and even to cause him<br/>
to be banished. In consequence of a pri-<br/>
vate quarrel he was shut up in the castle<br/>
of Jouix in Franche Comte.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Making an ill use of some relaxation of<br/>
his captivity, he committed another flagrant<br/>
crime and fled to Holland. He was con-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
demned to death for this crime—and being<br/>
arrested by surprise in 1777 he was again<br/>
imprisoned in the dungeons of Vincennes.<br/>
While in prison he devoted himself with<br/>
all the vehemence of his character to study.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being set at liberty in 1780 he published<br/>
two years afterwards his works on "Lettres<br/>
de Cachet" and "State Prisons." Not long<br/>
after this he was employed by the ministry<br/>
on a secret mission to Prussia. He there<br/>
witnessed the last moments of the Great<br/>
Frederick, and the beginning of the reign of<br/>
his successor, whose character and weak-<br/>
ness he unveiled in his "Secret History of<br/>
the Court of Berlin," a libel which appeared<br/>
in 1789.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rejected by the nobility of Provence on<br/>
the election of the deputies to the States<br/>
General in 1789, like another Clodius he<br/>
renounced the rights to which his birth en-<br/>
titled him, and got himself elected by<br/>
"Tiers etat" of the city of Aix. He pro-<br/>
moted the reunion of the three orders and<br/>
declared himself openly in insurrection,<br/>
almost in the King's presence in the sitting<br/>
of the 23rd of June, by replying to the grand<br/>
master of the ceremonies, who brought to<br/>
the assembly the order for them to separate,<br/>
"Go and tell those who sent you that we<br/>
will not quit our places until compelled by<br/>
their bayonets," "No body," says the Mar-<br/>
quis de Ferrieres speaking of the sudden<br/>
extinction of this brightest luminary of the<br/>
assembly, "dared to seize the sceptre which<br/>
bad dropped from the grasp of Mirabeau". La-<br/>
trape and other writers have drawn the<br/>
character of this famous orator, whom, if<br/>
we please, we may call a great man; but<br/>
woe to the country and age that may pro-<br/>
duce a number of great men like him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}* † Etudes Historiques de Paris<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}‡ The Historic Gallery<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Generals. 
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 94.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After two years further, service Captain <br/>
Grant resigned his commission in the army,<br/>
and removed to St. Louis Missouri to try <br/>
his fortune at civil life. He secured a small <br/>
farm in the neighborhood of Mr. Dent's <br/>
his father-in-law, and commenced farming. <br/>
He has frequently been seen during the <br/>
winter season seated upon his wagon, with <br/>
felt hat, blouse, coat, and pants tucked in- <br/>
side of his boots, driving his load of wood <br/>
to town for sale. He afterwards engaged <br/>
in business in St. Louis under the firm of <br/>
Boggs and Grant, but it appears the firm <br/>
for some reason or other was not eminently <br/>
successful. In 1839 a proposal was made <br/>
to Captain Grant by his venerable father, <br/>
to go into the leather business with him <br/>
in the west. His tannery education now <br/>
served him to a good purpose. He ac- <br/>
cordingly removed to the city of Galena, <br/>
on the banks of La Fevre river, in Jo Da- <br/>
vies County Illinois. There he commenced<br/>
business under the firm of Grant and Son.<br/>
Their business prospered. The quiet unob-<br/>
trusive manners of Captain Grant, attracted<br/>
customers throughout the great state, and<br/>
soon the firm became extensively known.<br/>
Here Captain Grant was quietly attending<br/>
to his business when the rebellion broke<br/>
out. It is said that one morning upon<br/>
reaching his office, he received the morning<br/>
papers and after reading the account of the<br/>
bombardment of Fort Sumter, he walked<br/>
behind the desk, drew on his coat, and said,<br/>
"Uncle Same educated me for the army,<br/>
and although I have served through one<br/>
war I feel that I am still a little in debt for<br/>
my education, and I am willing to dis-<br/>
charge the obligation. I am for the war to<br/>
put down this wicked rebellion."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He immediately went out and consulted<br/>
with some of the leading men of the place,<br/>
and the result was that they soon raised a<br/>
company, which Captain Grant took to<br/>
Springfield and offered to the Governor.<br/>
A gentleman called on the Governor and<br/>
recommended Capt. Grant as a suitable<br/>
person for a military position. There was<br/>
however no rush at the time for military<br/>
positions, and Governor Yates had already<br/>
had many applications from men in fine<br/>
clothes, of commanding appearance,<br/>
and large muscular forms, and it is said<br/>
that he carefully eyed the little man in home<br/>
spun, before him, and after due consider-<br/>
ation concluded that he had no appoint-<br/>
ment for him, so Capt. Grant left. Govern-<br/>
or Yates however being no military man<br/>
himself, was soon perplexed and distressed<br/>
in raising the quota of troops for the state.<br/>
He had many applications for military<br/>
positions, but a very great majority of them<br/>
knew nothing of military organizations.<br/>
In his embarrassment Governor Yates ap-<br/>
plied to the gentleman already alluded to,<br/>
and asked him if he could render him any<br/>
assistance. The gentleman replied by pre-<br/>
senting before him again Capt. Grant, the<br/>
plain little man in homespun. "Do you<br/>
understand the organisation of troops?" ask-<br/>
ed the Governor. Grant replied in the af-<br/>
firmative. "Will you accept a desk in my<br/>
office for that purpose?" asked the Gover-<br/>
nor, "Any thing to serve my country" was<br/>
the reply. He accordingly soon proved to<br/>
the Governor that he knew how to raise<br/>
and manage men. The mustering depart-<br/>
ment however did not satisfy his military<br/>
spirit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In two weeks after he entered the de-<br/>
partment Gov. Yates began to realize his<br/>
worth, and told his that he was requested<br/>
by the President to propose the names of<br/>
two persons from the state, for Brigadier<br/>
Generals, and desired that his should be<br/>
one of them, but his honor Grant deemed<br/>
it prudent to positively decline, on the<br/>
ground that he was a "stranger" and that<br/>
he did not seek promotion. After finishing<br/>
his duties in the mustering department he<br/>
went to visit his parents who now resided<br/>
in Kentucky, and whilst there he received<br/>
a commission from Governor Yates making<br/>
him Colonel of the Twenty First Regiment<br/>
of Illinois Volunteers. After the term of<br/>
the three months men had expired his re-<br/>
giment reinlisted and he retained the com-<br/>
mand. A little circumstance soon occur-<br/>
red which illustrates his character as a<br/>
commander.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Applications were made to Governor Yates<br/>
to send a regiment of men to Quincy, a<br/>
town one hundred and twenty miles dist-<br/>
ant. He had plenty of regiment but no means<br/>
of transportation. Grant told him to send<br/>
his regiment, and he would find means of<br/>
transportation. The command was given<br/>
and before night the regiment was marching<br/>
on foot to Quincy. The first active service<br/>
given the Twenty First Regiment was in<br/>
the district of North Missouri in the de-<br/>
partment of Gen. Pope. Several regiments<br/>
were ordered on the same service and it<br/>
became necessary to have an acting Briga-<br/>
der General, and although Grant was the<br/>
youngest Colonel in the lot he was pro-<br/>
moted to a Brigadier General. He was<br/>
still however by no means a showy Briga-<br/>
dier, and was recognized chiefly by a<br/>
rather bad looking "stove pipe" hat he<br/>
was accustomed to wear, before he could<br/>
be persuaded to doff it for the cap, and<br/>
yellow lace. His first command was small<br/>
having his head quarters at Cairo Tennes-<br/>
see. He soon managed to gain several vic-<br/>
tories which although small were neverthe-<br/>
less important. When Gen. Fremont was<br/>
superseded by Gen. Halleck Gen. Grant's<br/>
command was considerably enlarged. Hal-<br/>
leck saw in him the making of an excellent<br/>
commander, and entrusted to him the com-<br/>
mand first in importance in his own de-<br/>
partment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first important movement in Grant's<br/>
new command was commenced in conjunc-<br/>
tion with the gun boats up the Cumberland<br/>
and Tennessee Rivers against Forts Henry<br/>
and Donelson. He had an army of nine-<br/>
teen regiments of infantry, and six of cav-<br/>
alry and seven batteries of artillery. These<br/>
were divided into three columns under<br/>
Generals Paine, McClernand and C. F.<br/>
Smith. Fort Henry is on the east side<br/>
of the Tennessee, and the still more for-<br/>
midable Donelson is on the west side<br/>
of the Cumberland. Com. Foote was in<br/>
command of a fleet of seven gun boats,<br/>
four of which were iron clad, Henry was<br/>
the first place of attack In consequence<br/>
of bad roads, and some miscalculations of<br/>
distance, the troops did not reach the fort<br/>
as soon as the gun boats and the energetic<br/>
Foote attacked the fort and compelled its<br/>
surrender before they arrived. Next came<br/>
Donelson. Two days march, and two nights<br/>
sleep upon the cold ground, brought Grant's<br/>
troops to some of the action. The gun<br/>
boats made the attack but the current be-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing very strong and some of them be-<br/>
coming disabled they dropped down the riv-<br/>
er. It was now Grant's turn, but whilst<br/>
he was maturing his plans the rebels hurled<br/>
a large body of troops upon his right. It<br/>
was a bloody contest, and that night the<br/>
troops slept upon their arms. The next<br/>
morning the rebels again made a terrible<br/>
onslaught. The lines swayed to and fro and<br/>
those of the Union forces were well nigh<br/>
broken, when timely reinforcements ar-<br/>
rived. Another disaster also occurred. A<br/>
regiment of Union forces coming on the<br/>
field mistook their friends for rebels, and<br/>
fired upon them and they in consequence<br/>
fled to the river. Gen. Pillow of the rebels<br/>
hasty telegraphed to Nashville. "On the<br/>
honor of a soldier the day is ours." Grant<br/>
however still thought otherwise. He sat at<br/>
his head quarters as cooly as if nothing<br/>
were going on. Messenger after messen-<br/>
ger brings him the reports of his officers.<br/>
He scans them over and looking up to one<br/>
of the staff officers exclaims. "We have them<br/>
now." Smith and Wallace are ordered im-<br/>
mediately to take the rifle pits at the north<br/>
west corner of the Fort. This was done<br/>
and an approach made for the batteries to<br/>
shell it. The sun set that day upon a gory<br/>
scene. Again they slept upon their arms.<br/>
The next morning however a white flag<br/>
floats over the Fort. The rebel Generals<br/>
Floyd and Pillow had' escaped witha few<br/>
troops in the night, in a small steamer, and<br/>
Gen. Buckner who was left in charge saw<br/>
that he could not hold out successfully de-<br/>
cided to surrender. He accordingly sent<br/>
Grant the following note.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Head Quarters, Fort Donelson,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
February 18th 1863.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. U. S. Grant, U. S. A.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—In consideration of all the circum-<br/>
stances governing the present situation of<br/>
affairs at this station, I propose to the com-<br/>
manding officer of the Federal forces the<br/>
appointment of commissioners, to agree<br/>
upon terms of capitulation of the forces and<br/>
Fort under my command, and in that view<br/>
suggest an armistice till 12 o'clock to-day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I am Sir respectfully
Your Obedient Servant,
S. B. Buckner Brig. Gen. C. S. A.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Grant's reply to the above note<br/>
was the first thing that brought him into<br/>
general notice:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Head Quarters, Army in the Field,
Camp near Donelson, Feb.16th 1862.
Gen. S. B. Beckner, C. S. A.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—Yours of this date proposing an<br/>
armistice, and the appointment of commis-<br/>
sioners to settle terms of capitulation is just<br/>
received. No terms other than immediate<br/>
and unconditional surrender can be accept-<br/>
ed. I propose to move immediately upon<br/>
your works.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
U. S. Grant, Brig. Gen. U. S. A.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From these circumstances, and the first<br/>
two initials of his name he received the<br/>
sobriquet of Unconditional Surrender<br/>
Grant. Gen. Buckner could do nothing<br/>
else than surrender unconditionally. Gen.<br/>
Grant took at Donelson 13,000 prisoners,<br/>
3000 horses, 48 field pieces, 20,000 stand<br/>
of arms and a large quantity of stores.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For the taking of Donelson Grant was<br/>
promoted to the rank of Major General in<br/>
the regular army. His rising reputation<br/>
however soon began to excite jealousy. A<br/>
committee waited upon Gen. Halleck be-<br/>
fore the news of the taking of Donelson<br/>
had reached St. Louis, requesting Grants<br/>
removal. The principal cause urged for<br/>
his removal was that he indulged in the<br/>
use of intoxicating liquors. Gen. Halleck<br/>
however whatever else he lacked, did not<br/>
fail to see in Grant, a great soldier, and his<br/>
answer to the committee was : "I am satis-<br/>
fied with Gen. Grant and I think you soon<br/>
will be." The deputation were still stop-<br/>
ping at the Hotel in St. Louis when the<br/>
news of the capture of Donelson and 13-<br/>
000 prisoners arrived. Gen. Halleck posted<br/>
the news upon the Hotel bulletin with his<br/>
own hands, and when all crowded around<br/>
to read, he remarked in the hearing of the<br/>
same deputation, "If Gen. Grant is such a<br/>
drunkard as reported and can win such vic-<br/>
tories as this, I think it my duty to issue<br/>
an order that every man found sober to-<br/>
night in St. Louis shall be punished with<br/>
fine and imprisonment." This remark was<br/>
aimed at the committee who evidently<br/>
were not so much afraid of intemperance,<br/>
as of Gen. Grant's rising reputation. No<br/>
greater libel upon Gen. Grants character<br/>
could have been manufactured, for he does<br/>
not indulge in intoxicating liquors of any<br/>
kind. One who has fought long under him<br/>
and has the following testimony: "I know<br/>
that he is one of the most moderate of all<br/>
men in his desires. His purity is equal to<br/>
his modesty. His personal character to my<br/>
certain knowledge is without a blot."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegram.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
London, April 26th.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Surrender of Lee and his troops confirm-<br/>
ed. Twenty two thousand men
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Czarewich of Russia dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian Secretary of Legation assassin-<br/>
ated at Paris, reported dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, April 26—President Lincoln<br/>
and Seward murdered, tremendous excite-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lincoln's assassination caused universal<br/>
indignation to be felt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Johnston is President.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, April 26th a. m.—Lincoln<br/>
shot dead by an assassin; an attempt also<br/>
made to assassinate Seward who still lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 27th April p. m.—Dhollers<br/>
Fair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seward wounded, progressing favorably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, 27th—The Assassin of<br/>
Lincoln was shot dead, whilst resisting<br/>
capture. Sherman has concluded a truce<br/>
with Johnston, to negotiate for all the<br/>
Confederate Armies. The Federal Gov-<br/>
ernment has disapproved and ordered the<br/>
immediate renewal of hostilities. Grant<br/>
has arrived as Raleigh, terminated truce,<br/>
and assumed direction of operations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 28th Evening-—Cotton eleven.<br/>
large business. Confederates burned nine-<br/>
ty thousand bales Cotton. Montgomery,<br/>
Wilkers. Both murderer of Lincoln shot<br/>
dead. Maryland accomplices taken prison-<br/>
ers; and several others arrests made. Grant<br/>
terminated truce issued upon surrender of<br/>
Johnston.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London. 29th. America, 19th.—John-<br/>
ston made speech without proclaiming<br/>
policy. Mobile occupied. Sherman oc-<br/>
cupied Raleigh. Johnston retreating his<br/>
surrender expected. Seward recovering.<br/>
Lincoln nuried today. Dhollera eleven.<br/>
Market advancing. Week's sales hundred<br/>
six thousand. Stock five hundred twenty<br/>
thousand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, April 29th
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton eleven pence; advancing
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson made speech without<br/>
declaring policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sherman occupied Raleigh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Johnston retreating; his surrender ex-<br/>
pected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, May 1st-—Dollers 11d<br/>
Market healthy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Admiral Fitzroy committed Suicide.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seward recovering
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, 10th May, 6.50 a. m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, 29th April.—Johnson<br/>
has surrendered with his whole army to<br/>
Sherman on same terms as Lee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Davis reached South Carolina
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 12th May—-evening.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, 3rd May. Scattered Con-<br/>
federate forces surrendered; reduction of<br/>
Military establishment commenced; 400,000<br/>
troops to be disbanded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Johnston removed restricts on internal<br/>
commerce with south.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton heavy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Home News.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first act of the American War has<br/>
closed with a tremendous finale. For three<br/>
days together the great Confederate General<br/>
maintained himself in fierce and even doubt-<br/>
full battle against the combined forces of his<br/>
adversaries; but at last he succumbed to<br/>
numbers, and resigned to the enemy the<br/>
strongholds which he has defended so long.<br/>
Richmond and Petersburg are in the hands<br/>
of the North, and though Lee, even in these<br/>
desperate straits, has retired in good order<br/>
with the remnants of his army, it is impos-<br/>
sible to anticipate that his resistance can be<br/>
effectually prolonged. The South retained<br/>
but one great army, and that has now been<br/>
half destroyed. The loss of Richmond<br/>
might in itself have been, perhaps, sustain-<br/>
ed, but, coupled with the defeat of Lee, it<br/>
represents a veritable catastrophe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The event has been unicipated not only<br/>
in America, but in this country for some<br/>
time past, and yet it did not occur in con-<br/>
formity with the prevalent speculations.<br/>
Farragut had no part in it, nor Sherman<br/>
either. There was no flotilla, no bombard-<br/>
ment, no combined attack by land and water.<br/>
It is due to General Grant that his military<br/>
abilities should be recognised and his suc-<br/>
cess acknowledged. It was his army in the<br/>
end which captured Richmond. He did<br/>
"fight it out on that line," as he had pledged<br/>
himself to do, not only all through the<br/>
summer, but through the winter, and through<br/>
the following spring. Often and often was<br/>
he repulsed with dreadful losses, but he<br/>
clung with unconquerable tenacity to his<br/>
work, and never once relaxed the grip which<br/>
he had obtained. He forced his adversary<br/>
into Richmond, and sat down before its<br/>
ramparts with the resolution, which he has<br/>
well maintained, that sooner or later the<br/>
city should be his. It is true that he had<br/>
the assistance of Sheridan, and that without<br/>
that co-operation the final assault would<br/>
probably not have been attempted. The<br/>
hardest of the fighting, indeed, fell to<br/>
Sheridan's share, and he seems to have<br/>
displayed much of that genius which won<br/>
him so remarkable a victory in the Shen-<br/>
andoah Valley. But the whole work, sub-<br/>
stantially, was the work of Grant, and it<br/>
was the work for which he had waited in<br/>
patience and confidence through nearly<br/>
twelve months of discouragement. He was<br/>
the first General of the North who refused<br/>
to recognise defeat, and the reward of for-<br/>
titude is his at last.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After paying, however, this tribute to<br/>
the conqueror, we are bound to give due<br/>
honors to the vanquished, and the task will<br/>
not be difficult. General Lee has forleited<br/>
none of the renown which gives him so dis-<br/>
tinguished a place in the eyes of the world.<br/>
All that a consummate commander could<br/>
do under extreme difficulties he has valiant-<br/>
ly done. He did not decamp from his<br/>
position, nor try to cut his way out; still<br/>
less did he resign, as was prognosticated,<br/>
all hope of resistance. He waited in his<br/>
lines, reoeived the great assault with ex-<br/>
iraordinary intrepidity, and fought to the<br/>
last. Then he withdrew deliberately from<br/>
the field, evacuating his strongholds and<br/>
carrying off what remained of his army. If<br/>
we may accept as unexaggerated the esti-<br/>
mate of his losses, he can have but a slender<br/>
force left. A reckonin of 25,000 prisoners<br/>
and 15,000 killed and wounded will acoount<br/>
for the greater part of what was but a<br/>
moderate army to begin with. The South-<br/>
ern General is retiring, it was supposed,<br/>
upon Lynchburg, but s Federal force has<br/>
recently been advancing on that town from<br/>
the west, and the road may be no longer<br/>
open to the Confederates, For months<br/>
passed, indeed, the Northern forces have<br/>
been closing grimly round the single army<br/>
of the South, and it is to the combination<br/>
of foes that Lea at length has yielded. He<br/>
had upon him at once the Grand Army of<br/>
the Potomac under Grant, the Army of the<br/>
Shenandoah Valley under Sheridan, and<br/>
the Army of Tennessee under Sherman.<br/>
They shut him in on every side. Though<br/>
Sherman was not present at the last en-<br/>
gagement, he was at so short a distance and<br/>
was so formidably posted that Lee was com-<br/>
pelled to detach troops to keep him in check.<br/>
Then upon his weakened forces fell Grant<br/>
and Sheridan together, the former with his<br/>
old stubborn strategy, the latter with his<br/>
impetuous and brilliant valour. The Federals<br/>
had troops enough to fight and watch to-<br/>
gether, to engage the Confederates at every<br/>
point, and to take advantage of the slightest<br/>
opportunity, Suddenly, after three days'<br/>
fighting, Richmond and Petersburg were<br/>
discovered to be empty, and the Northern<br/>
Generals seized their prize.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITEMS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Died June 12th, Charlotte Elizabeth,<br/>
infant daughter of Mr. C. Hewetson aged<br/>
thirteen months and twenty one days—<br/>
"Of such in the Kingdom of heaven"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Go to thy rest, my child,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Go to thy dreamless bed,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gentle and undefiled,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With blessings on thy head.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Fresh flowers in thy hand,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Buds on thy pillow laid,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Haste from this fearful land,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Where flowers so quickly fade.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Because thy smile was fair,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thy lip and eye so bright;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Because thy cradle care<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Was such a fond delight,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Shall love, with weak embrace,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thy heaven-ward flight detain?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No! Angel, seek thy place,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Amid heaven's cherub train.<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The community has been charmed for<br/>
several evenings past, at the British Con-<br/>
sulate with excellent music by the superb<br/>
Brass Band, accompanying H. B. M. Ship<br/>
Princess Royal. Nothing could have been<br/>
more opportune at such a time as this,<br/>
than their arrival amongst us. It breaks the<br/>
reigning monotony of the place and revives<br/>
the drooping spirits of all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Robbery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Thursday the 8th inst., about 7<br/>
o'clock a. m. N. A. de Fonseca a Portuguese,<br/>
(who for a long time and till quite recently<br/>
was Interpreter to H.R.H. Krom Hluang<br/>
Wongsa Tirat Sanit.) went to the palace<br/>
of H. R. H. and when H. R. H. was yet<br/>
asleep stole a Chronometer gold watch, a<br/>
long gold chain, a box containing the like-<br/>
ness of H. R. Highnesses mother, and a<br/>
box containing a compass. There were<br/>
many witnesses of these several thefts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. R. H. Krom-Hluang, being informed<br/>
of the robbery, requested Mawm Rachot'ei,<br/>
the International Judge, to give due inform-<br/>
ation of the same to Mr. Moor the Portu-<br/>
guese Consul, who despatched an officer to<br/>
the floating house of Fonseca, where he<br/>
found many things belonging to H. R. H.<br/>
which Fonseca had stolen some time before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the slaves of Fonseca testified that<br/>
Fonseca had stolen a box containing money<br/>
belonging to H. R. H. that in the act of<br/>
taking it, he wrapped it up with red cloth<br/>
like that used for bunting, and gave it to<br/>
him to carry to Fonseca's floating house,<br/>
early one morning when H. R. H. was a-<br/>
sleep this was done many months ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In that box there were several purses of<br/>
silver and gold. One was full and contained<br/>
ten cattics of silver, another a white purse,<br/>
contained more than five cattics, another<br/>
was made of green silk and contained gold<br/>
earrings, and money more than three cat-<br/>
tics, and another was wrought with gold<br/>
thread and contained gold weighing 55<br/>
ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fonseca must have stolen property from<br/>
H. R. H. before this to a large amount,<br/>
He never was engaged in any regular bu-<br/>
sines but was a great gambler, staking of-<br/>
tentimes 100, and even 200 ticals at once.<br/>
He gambled with Chinese brass cubes, and<br/>
cards. He has from time to time bought<br/>
slaves for his own service until they have<br/>
become very many, and he has purchased<br/>
gardens, orchards and rice fields; also cows<br/>
and buffaloes to a large amount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Portuguese Consul appears to have<br/>
taked the part of Fonseca, and has not de-<br/>
cided that those articles of stolen property<br/>
shall be restored to H. R. H. He has only<br/>
decided that Fonseca is guilty of having<br/>
stolen the Chronometer from H. R. H. be-<br/>
cause there was many witnesses to corro-<br/>
borate the fact, and has ordered that Fon-<br/>
seca make full restitution for the Chrono-<br/>
meter, be imprisoned in Bangkok for six<br/>
months, and then banished to Macao.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now there is yet much property in the<br/>
possession of Fonseca, which his wives are<br/>
daily pawning in the market, and he is in-<br/>
debted to many persons. Since the Por-<br/>
tuguese Consul has adjudicated the case in<br/>
this manner, refusing to seize the goods and<br/>
chattels of Fonseca and cause them to be<br/>
sold at public auction, and using the avails<br/>
thereof to make restitution for the property<br/>
stolen from H. R. H. and for the payment<br/>
of his several Creditors according to Por-<br/>
tuguese law in Europe, he seems not to be<br/>
righteous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Wednesday the 7th inst, witnessos<br/>
having testified to the stealing of the Chro-<br/>
nometer, Fonseca confessed that he had<br/>
indeed stolen it, but that seeing he was<br/>
likely to be detected, he threw it into the<br/>
river on the 2nd inst. But there is another<br/>
person who testifies that he saw the watch<br/>
in the possession of Fonseca on the 3rd<br/>
inst. This the Portuguese Consul refuses<br/>
to investigate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We publish the above by special request<br/>
and are in no way responsible for the senti-<br/>
ments or assertions contained in it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Ed.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Princess Royal"
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M. Ship Princess Royal, 3126<br/>
Tons. Capt. W. G. Jones, bearing the Flag<br/>
of Vice Admiral G. St. V. King. C. B.<br/>
arrived from Singapore, enroute for China,<br/>
on the 9th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Officers (Admiral and his staff)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vice Admiral—George St. Vincent<br/>
King C. B.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Secretary.—F. Penfold Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Flag Lieut.—Richard King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Secretary's Clerks.—Messers. Dawson,<br/>
Mackern, Williams and Wheddon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Executive Officers
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain—W. G. Jones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Commander—Alexander Buller.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lieut.—Carter, Rivington, Maclear,<br/>
Lord Walter Kerr, Blount and Royce.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sub Lieut. Dowding, Stewart, Douglas,<br/>
Meade, Lukcraft, and Ives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mishipenman—Langley, Cochran, Wells,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fanshawe, l'Estrange, Moore, Beauchamp,<br/>
Durnford, Canning, Hall, Glennie, and<br/>
Duffield.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Officers. (Civil)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chaplain—Rev. H. E. Yeoman M. A.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Paymaster—J. F. Phillips Esq.<br/>
Assistant, to Paymaster—Messrs. Lyne<br/>
Seriven, Dixon, and Bates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Surgeons—Dr. F. Toms, M. D.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ass. Surgeons Drs. Hague, M. D. Good-<br/>
all, M. D. Dyle, M. D.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Engineer Chief. E, Boulton Esq. and<br/>
five assistants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Messers. Stanton: Gunner. Day. Boat<br/>
swain, Beer. Caprenter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Officer of Royal Marines.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Capt. J. F. Sanders, Lieut. Hawes, Gib-<br/>
son and Hill
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Navel Instructor,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John. Lawless Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent3 >}}Total Complement, 820.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Marines 130.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Armaments. 73 guns: consisting of one <br/>
110 pdr. Armstrong, 10: 40 pdrs. Arm-<br/>
strong (these guns range nearly 5 miles.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On main deck 30, 32 pdr, 58 cwt guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Lower deck 32, 8 inch, 65 cwt guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Boats, 3 large boats which carry 25 pdrs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Armstrong guns. 2 smaller boats which<br/>
carry 12 and 24 pdr. rockets tubes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At night with all hands in bed, ship will<br/>
be ready for action in 10 minutes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Can land for service in the Field 500<br/>
riflemen, and 2, 20 pdr. Armstrong Field<br/>
Pieces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Auxilliary Steamer 400 horse power.<br/>
Engines by Maudsley, can steam 9 knots<br/>
per hour, carriee 300 tons of coals, and<br/>
stores 6 months stores and provisions, of all<br/>
sorts except water, and can distill 35 tons<br/>
of water in 24 hours.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She was launched in 1853, length 240 ft.<br/>
beam 63 ft. draught 27 ft. sails very well,<br/>
best run her 318 knots in 24 hours, she<br/>
was commissioned in Feb. 1864. In her<br/>
first commission she was in the Russian<br/>
war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Admiral Kings command on the China<br/>
and Japan stations, consists of 36 steam screw<br/>
ships of all classes, carrying about 6000<br/>
men, and 320 guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tour to the Hot Springs
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 98)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a strange act to break the chain<br/>
of my journal, as I did, in the middle of<br/>
that extraordinary breakfast in the wilder-<br/>
ness. But it was the best that I could do<br/>
in the circumstances, because I had spun<br/>
out my details to such an extent that no<br/>
more of my yarn could be crammed into<br/>
the nut-sheets allowed me at the time. And<br/>
now, since I have some inkling that prolixity<br/>
is a weakness, I shall try to guard against<br/>
it a little by saying nothing more of the<br/>
after part of that breakfast, though I think<br/>
my pen could easily make a little volume<br/>
of quite readable matter from the incidents<br/>
that occurred to my observation during<br/>
that half hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breakfast being over, we each spread out<br/>
his blanket or mat over the dry leaves of<br/>
the place in the densest shade we could<br/>
find, and endeavored to make up for the<br/>
loss of sleep we had sustained the last night,<br/>
and to mollify somewhat the chafing and<br/>
bruising we had had by sitting in an unac-<br/>
customed saddle six successive hours before<br/>
breakfast. With but one exception, each<br/>
found it next to impossible to sleep; in an at-<br/>
mosphere so close among myriads of black<br/>
and red ants, which have their homes under<br/>
every dry leaf of the forest, and were to be seen<br/>
animating every green one we had in our<br/>
arbor. This exception, though a delicate<br/>
merchant, seemed to have been originally<br/>
designed for the rough and tumble life of<br/>
a boundary line surveyor, or a soldier, for<br/>
he could sleep while the ants were using his<br/>
person as a bridge, and the sun streaming<br/>
upon him in great power, and never seemed<br/>
to mind it. One of the party complained of<br/>
a cracking headache, which he judged to be<br/>
premonitory of an approaching fever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after breakfast our ox carts were<br/>
ordered off to the next station, a Karen vil-<br/>
lage. One of the men conveyed a letter<br/>
from the Governor of Petchaburee to its<br/>
Karen chief, requiring him to receive us<br/>
with all due attention and hospitality. Our<br/>
party were to remain until 3 o'clock P. M.<br/>
and then resume our journey in the cool<br/>
of the day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The woods in which we stopped consist-<br/>
ed largely of the trees called ton yang and<br/>
mai-ta-baak. The former is quite remark-<br/>
able for its lofty bearing and uprightness. It<br/>
is the tree from which the natives obtain a<br/>
brownish pitch or oil in great use among<br/>
them, in connection with the resin, (which<br/>
I have previously noticed), for making their<br/>
boats impervious to water. The mode<br/>
of obtaining the oil is to cut a large notch<br/>
in the tree three or four feet from the<br/>
ground at a certain season, and then to burn<br/>
the wound until the upper superficies of it<br/>
become quite black. The lower part is cut<br/>
into a concave form to make a basin for<br/>
holding the dripping oil. From one to two<br/>
quarts may be caught in every such basin<br/>
every twenty four hours. Without the<br/>
charring the oil will not flow. All the ton<br/>
yangs in that region seemed to have been<br/>
brought into such service to man, evidenced<br/>
by the old and new notches we saw in<br/>
them. It appeared not to be the proper oil<br/>
season at that time, as but little of the article<br/>
was to be seen in any of the basins.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The texture of the wood of the oil tree<br/>
is rather soft, and but little used, except-<br/>
ing for the main pillars of the funeral pal-<br/>
aces for kings and other extraordinary per-<br/>
sonages. These are required to be perfectly<br/>
straight and about 150 ft. high. This<br/>
timber is sometimes used for flooring when<br/>
the planks made of it can be protected from<br/>
the weather.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Mei ta-baak, in its prime, is also a<br/>
splendid tree, and remarkable for its green-<br/>
ish-white and smooth bark, and for the<br/>
great effort every tree makes to spread<br/>
out its base into a half a dozen or more dis-<br/>
tinct pillars. Its texture is quite close, and<br/>
planes very smoothly, but it will not bear<br/>
exposure to rain and sun. It is almost as<br/>
much a favorite timber for the white ants<br/>
to riddle as fir and pine. Planks of it are<br/>
in common use by the natives for flooring<br/>
purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Finding myself ill at ease at our resting<br/>
place, I walked out a little way at noon,<br/>
following a cart road, or I heard the charm-<br/>
ing music of chopping trees in the forest<br/>
in that direction. Presently I found six<br/>
Laos men, each having in charge a yoke of<br/>
oxen and a cart. They were on a journey<br/>
of a day and a night in pursuit of a certain<br/>
long grass for thatching their houses, and<br/>
had stopped to rest and feed their teams<br/>
until the sun should decline a little to the<br/>
west, when it becomes cooler. The men<br/>
were quite busy,—some in repairing their<br/>
vehicles—some in cutting and splitting bam-<br/>
boos for making baskets and various other <br/>
utensils,—and some in cutting and splitting <br/>
green rattans into strings for tying the <br/>
thatching material on their roofs. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their stoutest oxen were only the seize <br/>
of an ordinary European yearling steer, and <br/>
worth as they informed we from thirty to <br/>
sixty Ticals a pair. Their carts indicated <br/>
pretty fair handy-work of a cart-wright, <br/>
but were of the old patriarchal model, most<br/>
awkward in shape, and most prodigal in<br/>
their demands of muscular strength to haul<br/>
them about. A usual load for a single yoke<br/>
of oxen, the Laos told me, is about three<br/>
piculs, which is nearly equal to 400 lbs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having by such conversation introduced<br/>
myself to the good graces of those Loatians,<br/>
I then introduced the far more important<br/>
subject of religion. They expressed them-<br/>
selves very strongly as being poor and op-<br/>
pressed by heavy taxation, and hence as<br/>
longing to find some future rest. I pointed<br/>
them to the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ<br/>
as being a sure and straight way to com-<br/>
plete and everlasting rest.—that He and<br/>
His and our common Almighty Father are<br/>
still living and will live forever the un-<br/>
changable God—that this God is the maker<br/>
and preserver and proprietor of the universe,<br/>
and that we all live and have our being in<br/>
Him alone. They caught hold with ap-<br/>
parent eagerness of the idea that the almighty<br/>
and eternal Father is a Spirit, and exclaimed<br/>
—O that is just what we hold, and hence<br/>
when we fall into any great trouble we look<br/>
up to Him and make offerings to propitiate<br/>
His favor. This testimony substantiates<br/>
what the missionaries have often learned of<br/>
this tribe of Laotians, and is an apparently<br/>
encouraging feature in them as subjects for<br/>
evangelization. But it should ever be borne<br/>
in mind, that they are no nearer gospel con-<br/>
vertion, by this phase of religious views,<br/>
than are the wildest American Indians, or<br/>
the most bigoted Mahomedans, or the most<br/>
legal Hebrews.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At 4 p.m. we mounted our ponies again,<br/>
and set off for the Karen village called Ta-<br/>
p'long. It was a ride of about ten miles in<br/>
a dense forest of primitive trees nearly all<br/>
the way, the timber being much like that<br/>
already discribed. Occasionally we saw a<br/>
grand specimen of the sacred tree called<br/>
ton poh improperly denominated the ban-<br/>
yan tree. Its leaf is like the wild poplar of<br/>
Am. The Siamese regard it with much<br/>
veneration because tradition says that<br/>
Buddh sat under its shade "once on a time"<br/>
and shed upon it the beams of his glory.<br/>
We saw one of them holding in its firm<br/>
embrace a lofty salow tree. A singu-<br/>
lar peculiarity of the sacred poh is to throw<br/>
its numerous arms all around some other<br/>
tree, as a false religion does its influence<br/>
around its votaries, which it never relaxes<br/>
till the death of its subject. The way it<br/>
does this, is to deposit its gummy seeds, by<br/>
the agency of birds, in some angle of a limb<br/>
or some crevice or crack in the bark, or on a<br/>
little deposite of earth which the ants have<br/>
made on some convenient lodging place, and<br/>
then the seed, being the most tenacious<br/>
in the germinating principle of all seeds,<br/>
is sure, to sprout and shoot down its roots<br/>
in all direction around the trunk of the<br/>
tree, taking care that every one of them shall<br/>
cleave fast to the bark wherever it goes, un-<br/>
til it reaches the ground. While seeking<br/>
their mother earth, they spread out and<br/>
expand until the most of them unite and<br/>
form apparently one entire envelope, with<br/>
only here and there an opening through<br/>
which you may see the trunk of the tree<br/>
which it has invested. It is the most<br/>
common thing to see palmyra trees of<br/>
Petchaburee held in such embrace. We<br/>
saw a few small trees of teak. The proper<br/>
home, however, of this timber is far up<br/>
the Menam Chow Phya and its tributaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We reached Taplong about 6 p.m. Our<br/>
ox carts had arrived in good time, and the<br/>
chief of the place had been duly informed<br/>
by the Governor of P. that he should re-<br/>
ceive us with all the attentions we might<br/>
need. Having no house or shed in which<br/>
he could accomodate us, he prepared for<br/>
us a most comfortable lodging place under<br/>
an arbor made by the natural tops of sever-<br/>
al thrifty pomelo trees meeting together.<br/>
There he spread a large bamboo mat 15<br/>
by 10 feet for a carpet, and in the middle<br/>
of this he set a table, consisting of a plank<br/>
8 feet by 2, a little elevated from the carpet<br/>
by blocks. Each weary, dusty, thirsty,<br/>
hungry traveler of us hailed this place of<br/>
rest as if it had been the best hotel he had<br/>
ever seen, and each chose his berth in it with<br/>
all eagerness and gladness. One of our<br/>
number, who had had a fever nearly all<br/>
day, with strong pains in the head and loins,<br/>
exclaimed as he laid himself down on his<br/>
blanket, having an extemporized straw pil-<br/>
low for his weary head, "I never in all my<br/>
life was so glad to get to a resting place."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having rested a little, we were politely<br/>
conducted by the chief to a bathing pool<br/>
supplied by a spring of cool water in the<br/>
same place. O how refreshing was the<br/>
bath we each took! Never could the most<br/>
refined bath in an European hotel have<br/>
been more so. Our host had no trouble<br/>
in providing for our table, for all that we<br/>
needed, and a good deal more had been<br/>
brought along in our carts; and our stew-<br/>
ard had made it all ready. The kindness<br/>
of the missionary ladies at P. in their<br/>
provision of pies and cakes was then, as at<br/>
our breakfast, quite conspicuous and was<br/>
gratefully reciprocated. Though we had<br/>
no chairs to sit in at our table, we did not<br/>
feel the need of any, as a seat flat down on<br/>
our carpet was, under the circumstances,<br/>
a great luxury excluding all desire for any<br/>
other of the kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We all partook of our dinner with a<br/>
keen relish save the one sick of a fever.<br/>
The physician very providentially with us<br/>
(like all other events of life) prescribed<br/>
for him rigid fasting after his cold bath,<br/>
and a heavy dose of the bitter quinine, and<br/>
this to be repeated in four hours; so he re-<br/>
tired at once into his own corner, and fell<br/>
into a sound sleep.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While eating, it was remarked by one<br/>
of the party, that not less than four classes<br/>
of European society were represented by<br/>
our little company,—vis. Rulers in the<br/>
person of one consul of two nations.—the<br/>
Clergy in two missionaries—Physicians in<br/>
one person and the half of another, and<br/>
Merchants, in two of the number. Surely<br/>
there was dignity in our professions enough<br/>
to have stamped that Karen cottage in the<br/>
wilderness with everlasting importance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now, for the second time, I am<br/>
forced to snap assunder my long and<br/>
splendid thread. O what a pity!  *
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
In a postscript of a private note, dated<br/>
New York April 4th, we receive the<br/>
following:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mr. J. L. Hoon the U. S. Consul for<br/>
Siam, with Mrs. Hood, and an assistant was<br/>
to sail for Hong Kong, in the "Amaranth"<br/>
April 3d.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice of Assignment.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pursuant to the provisions of the<br/>
Law made and provided for Bankrupt-<br/>
cy. Notice is hereby given that the<br/>
undersigned has been appointed Re-<br/>
ceiver to the property and Estate of<br/>
C. G. ALLEN of Bangkok, a Bankrupt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons indebted to said Estate<br/>
are hereby requested to render account,<br/>
and make payment of such indebted-<br/>
ness at the office of the undersigned<br/>
at Bangkok, on or before the first day<br/>
of July prox. and all Creditors of the<br/>
said C. G. ALLEN are requested to pre-<br/>
sent their respective accounts and de-<br/>
mands, with all necessary vouchers,<br/>
within the time above specified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons having in their pos-<br/>
session any property or effects of the<br/>
said Bankrupt or the Estate thereto<br/>
belonging are required to report and<br/>
make delivery of the same without<br/>
delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. BLAKE
Receiver in re Estate of
C. G. ALLEN Bankrupt
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok<br/>
June 13th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Towing and Lightering.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Until further notice, all orders for<br/>
Towing and Lightering with the<br/>
Steamers "Jack Waters" and "Fairy"<br/>
with the Barges, will receive attention<br/>
at the office of the undersigned, where<br/>
application should be made.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE
Receiver in re Estate of
C. G. ALLEN Bankrupt
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok<br/>
June 13th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 2 TH MAY TO 11TH JUNE 1865
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
Commissioner or Police.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny, of a Sarong,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>4</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slave.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting a woman.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Robbery of jewelry.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cutting and wounding with</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">intent to kill.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_8 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r9e">
        <p class="r01"><b>PRICE CURRENT.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">White Superior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">@ Tls.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">@ Tls. 12¼ pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>12¾<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>11½<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>11½<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">@ Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">8¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">8¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 9¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">3 @ 4 pl. Tic. 3½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 3¼</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 3<span class="s1">⅛</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">6 @ 7 pl. Tic. 2¾<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">7 @ 8 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Supplies coming forward.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Scarce @ Tls. 10½ Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">@ Tic. 150 @ 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">9 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">Horns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">10 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra0">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra1">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra2">
        <p class="r01">11¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 160 @ 210.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 135 @ 145 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gambege</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 47 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 123 Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sticlac</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 13½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No.2 Tic. 11½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Ivory</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 270 - 340 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cardamums</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 200 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 22¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic 75 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Laos, Tic 255,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Cochin Tic. 710 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gold leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Ansing Tic. 16½ Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 3 @ 2¾ cent premium,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">and 1¼ cent premium on clean Mexican Dollars.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kyam Ali deceased, Notice is hereby<br/>
given, that all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands against the estate<br/>
of Kyam Ali, Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th of February<br/>
last, intestate, are hereby required to send<br/>
the particulars in writing of their claims to<br/>
the undersigned the Administrator, on or<br/>
before the 31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said administrator<br/>
will proceed to distribute the estate and<br/>
effects of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having regard only<br/>
to such claims of which he shall then have<br/>
had notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dated at the British Consulate
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Siam. March 14th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(s.d.) Thomas George Knox
H. B. M. Consul
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE FRENCH IN MEXICO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The situation of the French in Mexico<br/>
has been fully canvassed in the French<br/>
Corps Législatif, and the course taken by<br/>
the government has been strongly condemn-<br/>
ed by the Opposition as being likely to<br/>
embroil the country in a war with America.<br/>
The answer of the ministers has the merit of<br/>
being distinguished by this utmost candour.<br/>
They did not attempt to blink the question,<br/>
but declared that the honour of the French<br/>
flag was concerned, and that they were<br/>
determined to support the Emperor Max-<br/>
imilian, cost what it might. This, at least,<br/>
was plain speaking; but it should be added<br/>
that the French government entertains the<br/>
strongest confidence in the financial regen-<br/>
eration of Mexico, and believes that the<br/>
cost of their friendship will be amply repaid<br/>
by and by. As to a war with America,<br/>
M. Rouher has no apprehensions of any<br/>
such issue; he thinks, in the first instance,<br/>
that the Americans have no inclination<br/>
to quarrel with France, and in the second,<br/>
that they have no desire to interfere in the<br/>
affairs of Mexico. On these points he may<br/>
be wrong or right; but in any case he has<br/>
shown consummate judgment by adopt-<br/>
ing a conciliatory tone towards the North,<br/>
in the same breath with the announcement<br/>
of the determination of France to maintain<br/>
the empire of Maximilian. America can-<br/>
not complain hereafter of having been<br/>
misled or deceived. France is resolved to<br/>
fight for Mexico, if fighting be necessary,<br/>
and has already testifled the sincerity of<br/>
her support by pledging her own credit for<br/>
a Mexican loan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not surprising, under these circum-<br/>
stances, that the belief in the likelihood of<br/>
a war between France and America should<br/>
be revived, and acquire increased currency.<br/>
This time it comes associated with a ru-<br/>
mour, important if true, but which is as<br/>
yet unsupported by authority. It is said<br/>
that, in anticipation of a hostile movement<br/>
on the part of the Northern States of Ameri-<br/>
ca, France has proposed to England to enter<br/>
into an engagement of joint action and<br/>
mutual support, in the event of an aggre-<br/>
sion on Mexico or Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Home News
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_10_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Romantic Courtship and Mar-
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
riage.—The Sunderland Times prints the<br/>
following:—Some time ago the mate of a<br/>
Sunderland vessel, while at a Chinese port,<br/>
fell ill of fever and subsequently died. An<br/>
Englishman and his wife, living in the land<br/>
of " barbarians," were kind to the dying<br/>
man, and in his last moments strove by their<br/>
attention to ease, as far as they could, his<br/>
passage from this troublesome world. The<br/>
kindness shown to the suffering seaman<br/>
came to the knowledge of his widow in<br/>
Sunderland, and she, in a letter to the Eng-<br/>
lishman and his wife, thanked them for<br/>
what they had done, and begged they<br/>
would, in return, send her their cartes as<br/>
a remembrance of the debt she owed them.<br/>
After the lapse of some months, she receiv-<br/>
ed an answer from the Celestial Empire,<br/>
from the Englishman, in which he convey-<br/>
ed the melancholy intelligence that, shortly<br/>
after the departure of the vessel to which<br/>
the mate belonged, he had the misfortune<br/>
to lose his wife, who now lay interred by<br/>
the side of his friend, the husband of the<br/>
woman to whom he was writing. Acting<br/>
upon the high encomiums he had heard of<br/>
the character and qualities of his fair cor-<br/>
respondent, he judged she was a suitable<br/>
person to fill the place of his deceased part-<br/>
ner, and at once "popped the question,"<br/>
giving as a reason for his promptness that<br/>
so long a time was required for the trans-<br/>
mission of a letter and its answer, it would<br/>
be half a year before he knew what her<br/>
reply would be. Enclosed was his portrait,<br/>
and he begged a return of the favor. The<br/>
letter, as may be imagined, was a surprise<br/>
to the widow; but after weighing all the<br/>
circumstances, she consented to be 'wooed.'<br/>
The courtship thus strangely commenced,<br/>
continued to progress until a few weeks<br/>
ago, when the happy man who was to be<br/>
the bridegroom arrived in England, was<br/>
not long in finding his way to Sunderland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and the 'banns' were at once proclaimed in<br/>
Bishopwearmouth Church.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Twins are again be-<br/>
fore the public attention. They have con-<br/>
tinued unmolested on their plantation in<br/>
North Carolina during the rebellion, being<br/>
ineligible to the draft. They dress in the<br/>
Confederate grey, and attend as members<br/>
Baptist church. Domestic troubles have<br/>
overtaken them; in consequence of the<br/>
jealousy of their wives,-not, as was custom-<br/>
ary at the South, because of conjugal<br/>
infidelity, but because of the excess of<br/>
children with which one was favored. The<br/>
old question remains unsettled, and grows<br/>
grimmer as the brothers advance in years—<br/>
they are now over fifty—Will both die<br/>
together, or can one exist without the oth-<br/>
er, and the connecting bond be out? They<br/>
fear secession when it comes home to their<br/>
own persons. Much more have they<br/>
reason to fear a situation like that of<br/>
North and South before the war-—a living<br/>
body bound to a corpse.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_10_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Answers to Enigma No. 2.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Print—Neutral—You—Gin—Prying—Yule—Usam
Mango—Soul—Pint—Mint—Ulyesses—So.
Ulysses Sphinx Grant.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
G.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Upon the margin of the silv'ry flood,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Come, see the Lion in his wrathful mood.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His roar terrific echoing rocks rebound,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And nature trembles at the dreadful sound;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His furious tail he works from side to side,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His bristly mane he shakes with awful pride;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His eyes, wild rolling, glare with starting light,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With paw upraised, he stands prepared for fight,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And wherefore stands he thus with warlike look?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He sees his image in the quiet brook.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Man, born to reason, like the foolish beast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Lets rage hot boiling fester in his breast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The cause as futile: he himself possess'd.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of evil tempers, colors all the rest.<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"Yes, Mrs. Miffin," said a visitor to her hostess,<br/>
"dear Emma has your features, but I think she has<br/>
her father’s hair." "Oh, now I see," said dear<br/>
little Emma; "it’s because I have father’s hair<br/>
that he wears a wig."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A ten years old Sunday School boy was asked<br/>
by his teacher, not long since, what the phylacteries<br/>
of the Pharisees were-—"Broad hems, such as ladies<br/>
wear on their dresses," was the reply. "But the<br/>
Pharisees didn't wear them for the same reason<br/>
that ladies do, did they?" "O yes," was the wicked<br/>
answer, "to be seen of men."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_10_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r12d">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MAY 16TH 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Bannet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Lug.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singoa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Carlos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">420</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ting Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">162</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Fanny Kirchner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Rossini</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Old.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ponsbery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gades</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Richard Cobden</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Bischoff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">448</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Verdun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kupperman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">338</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Han.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ty Watt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Creighton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Offdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">338</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Princes Royal</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">8126</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">H, B.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">M. S.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">King Ing Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Dossbrough</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Spaanderman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">816</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Pollax</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Blok</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">417</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Brig.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
