---
linkTitle: 'December 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 1st'
date: 2025-09-24T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 22
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK FRIDAY DECEMBER 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 22</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok 1st Dec. 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese doubtless oftentimes think,<br/>
that we farangs are unnecessarily severe<br/>
upon them, and at the same time are med-<br/>
dling with those things which don't concern<br/>
us, when we blame them for not at once a-<br/>
waking up to the importance, of taking<br/>
hold of those vast internal improvements<br/>
which render a country great and powerful.<br/>
Perhaps it is to some extent true. The pa-<br/>
pers have told them again and again of rail-<br/>
roads, canals, and telegraphs, of furnaces,<br/>
forges, and rolling mills, of improved agri-<br/>
cultural implements, of institutions of learn-<br/>
ing, observatories &c. of big guns and iron<br/>
clads; of the oil business and the vast for-<br/>
tunes derived from it, in short they have<br/>
told them of every thing which constitutes<br/>
the wealth, and superiority of western na-<br/>
tions. Those too who consider themselves<br/>
better capable of advising than the news-<br/>
papers, have also privately urged upon<br/>
them the necessity of securing at once a<br/>
good financier for the government, and of<br/>
appointing an international judge. But to<br/>
all these importunities they apparently<br/>
turn a deaf ear, and sleep away. But are<br/>
they really doing nothing? Are they mak-<br/>
ing no progress! They, it is true, move so<br/>
slowly that foreigners can scarcely see them<br/>
moving at all. If we take a retrospect of the<br/>
last four or five years, we can see that they<br/>
have not, at least, been retrograding, and<br/>
should get credit for what they have done.<br/>
Five years ago there was scarcely any thing<br/>
in the kingdom which could be called a road.<br/>
Europeans talked much and long upon the<br/>
subject until at length a move was made, and<br/>
the result is a road which is certainly a credit<br/>
to the country. Although it lingered long<br/>
without being finished, and is still in many<br/>
places in an unfinished state, and needs<br/>
many things to make it what it should be,<br/>
still it affords a vast amount of real enjoy-<br/>
ment, and equestrian exercise to many of<br/>
the European community. But is it really<br/>
no benefit to the Siamese themselves! It<br/>
needs but a stroll along it almost any day,<br/>
to prove that all classes, at least, enjoy it.<br/>
It also enhances very much the value of<br/>
property, in its vicinity. Places which<br/>
could formerly be bought in the same neigh-<br/>
borhood very low, now command large<br/>
prices. But it has also the draw backs. I<br/>
affords situations for the establishing of dens<br/>
of iniquity and haunts for thieves. Theiv-<br/>
ing and open violence were never so pre-<br/>
valent as since the opening of that road.<br/>
These things however may be expected<br/>
and ought be provided against.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new canal which is now making will<br/>
also be a great benefit to the country. It<br/>
will open up agriculture a large region<br/>
which has hitherto been comparatively use-<br/>
less.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But whilst we have these evidences that<br/>
there is really somthing doing, still like<br/>
Oliver Twist, we want more. There are<br/>
we believe several more canals in contemp-<br/>
plation, which when completed will open up<br/>
up a vast region of country between this and<br/>
the Old City, which is now comparatively<br/>
useless. After all, too, canals are the things<br/>
for Siam. In a country like this, which<br/>
during a certain portion of the year, is al-<br/>
most wholly overcrowded, the best of roads<br/>
would be useless during that time. The<br/>
principle transportation too of produce, &c.<br/>
must be done in boats. Canals also open up<br/>
the country better to agricultural purposes<br/>
than roads. Some more roads are however<br/>
needed. One is needed on the wast side<br/>
of the river, to correspond to the one on the<br/>
east side. It should intersect the new road<br/>
in contemplation to Na-Kawn-Choi-See,<br/>
passing down and intersecting the river op-<br/>
posite where the other one does. It would<br/>
greatly enhance the value of property on that<br/>
side of the river. Some enterprising natives<br/>
too could also drive a pretty good business<br/>
by establishing a ferry at the place where the<br/>
roads intersect the river, and at several oth-<br/>
er places higher up. The ferry boats should<br/>
be of such dimensions, that they could carry<br/>
over at any time in safety horses and car-<br/>
riages. It may be argued however that the<br/>
government is not able to do it. If not<br/>
let it be given out, like the present canal, to<br/>
individual enterprise, with the privilege of<br/>
taking toll from all passing until it is paid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every horseman can pay two or three Ats,<br/>
and every footman an At without feeling it.<br/>
Foreigners will prefer to pay by the year.<br/>
This would be an easy and honorable way<br/>
to have the work done.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How I won my wife.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jessie Hale was the merriest, prettiest and<br/>
most provoking daughter of Eve that ever<br/>
existed—-at least, I thought so, though, per-<br/>
haps, I was not an impartial judge, and I must<br/>
confess I was deeply in love, and, in fact. I<br/>
don't believe I could remember of a time<br/>
when I was not in love with her. It certainly<br/>
was not when, a youngster of twelve, I took<br/>
her under my especial care, feeling prouder<br/>
than of my curly-headed charge than I could<br/>
now of a mine of gold; for when, a tall,<br/>
awkward boy of sixteen, I first ventured to<br/>
ask for her company home from church; nor,<br/>
still later, when, after four years' absence, I<br/>
returned to my native town, and set up as a<br/>
surgeon in the house where Dr. Moore's name<br/>
had been since my earliest recollections.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oak place was a remarkably healthy place,<br/>
or else the good people felt a little afraid of<br/>
trusting their lives in the hands of such a<br/>
young scapegrace as they had known me to<br/>
be, for my horse and gig found more employ-<br/>
ment in carrying Jessie Hale to ride them in<br/>
any more profitable business; and it is certain<br/>
more of my time was spent in Mr. Hale's<br/>
pleasant parlor than in either the study or<br/>
practice of medicine. Some of the neigh-<br/>
bors slyly remarked that I must have a very<br/>
sick patient there to occasion such frequent<br/>
visits; and I am certain that if I had no pa-<br/>
tient there, all the patience I ever had was<br/>
required there at all; for of all the tanta-<br/>
lizing little wretches that ever fascinated a<br/>
poor fellow—he could not have told<br/>
whether he was in the body or out of it—-<br/>
Jessie Hale was the worst.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
And there was I-—William Tremaine-—<br/>
spending six feet two in my stockings, big<br/>
enough to have known better, that is sure,<br/>
loaded about by that little elf, coming and go-<br/>
ing at every beck and call, as if I were a<br/>
great simpleton; as in truth I mean have<br/>
been, for after playing "yearn, must devot-<br/>
edly" for six months, I was no nearer win-<br/>
ning them at first. Open-handed and can-<br/>
did she was on every other subject; but just<br/>
let me speak of love or marriage, and I might<br/>
well talk to a stone wall for all the sense<br/>
I could get from her. No matter how<br/>
cautiously I might approach the subject, she<br/>
was always ready with some off-hand answer,<br/>
as from which I wanted as the equator<br/>
from the poles, until I was almost in despair,<br/>
but more eager after every failure. All is<br/>
fair in love and war; or at least I thought so,<br/>
and resolved to try the result of strategy on<br/>
my wilful little lady love.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One fine morning, as we were about start-<br/>
ing for a ride on horseback, as I was assist-<br/>
ing Jessie into the saddle, her horse coun-<br/>
menced rearing and kicking at an alarming<br/>
rate-—of course, the jagged bits of iron that<br/>
I had cautiously inserted beneath the saddle<br/>
had nothing to do with it. By the time<br/>
she was fairly seated the horse had become<br/>
perfectly unmanageable, throwing her viol-<br/>
ently from the saddle. Of course, I caught<br/>
her before she reached the ground. No<br/>
sooner was she in safety than, with a deep<br/>
groan, I staggered back against the fence,<br/>
my right arm hanging helplessly by my side.<br/>
It took nicely, for Jessie was beside me in<br/>
a moment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! I Will," she said, pitiously, "that<br/>
terrible horse has broken your arm; and<br/>
what will you do? Poor Will! poor Will!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How like a rascal I felt at sight of her<br/>
distress; but I was not going to give up<br/>
then, so I answered, with another terrible<br/>
groan—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is nothing, dear Jessie. I would suf-<br/>
fer a thousand times more to feel that I have<br/>
saved your precious life."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But oh! I am so sorry. What can be<br/>
done for you?" she said with such touching<br/>
accent that I half repented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The end justifies the means," I thought.<br/>
The end accomplished certainly did. My<br/>
answer was in a low, faint voice, as if I were<br/>
dying.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Only tell me that you love me, Jessie<br/>
darling. It will soothe my pain more than<br/>
anything else in the world."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And then, like the great simpleton that<br/>
I was, I put that right arm around her, and<br/>
never discovered my mistake until she<br/>
sprang suddenly away from me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Wouldn't a little brandy and water do<br/>
as well, Mr. Tremaine?" she said, archly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wouldn't I have sold myself for a six-<br/>
pence? But there was no help for it; so I<br/>
had to own the trick, and went home wish-<br/>
ing I had broke my arm, or neck, I did not<br/>
care much which.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After that, for a while, I was rather shy of<br/>
the love subject, for I did not fancy hear-<br/>
ing of my last attempt; but my heart was<br/>
so full of love for Jessie Hale that I could<br/>
not force my tongue to keep silence very<br/>
long. So, on one morning, after lounging in<br/>
my study and when I was tired of everything—<br/>
myself in particular—-I went over the way,<br/>
resolved that the matter should be decided<br/>
before I returned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jessie was sitting by the parlor window,<br/>
busily sewing, and humming some merry<br/>
tune to herself when I entered. She was<br/>
looking prettier than ever, I thought, and I<br/>
found it verily hard to talk on common<br/>
place subjects when my life was so full of<br/>
the one so important to me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At last I broke in upon some of her care-<br/>
less nonsense with,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why, in the world, Jessie, don't you<br/>
say whether you love me or not! What is<br/>
the use of keeping a fellow in suspense for-<br/>
ever? I believe you do—-in fact, I know<br/>
you do."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here I was again making a simpleton of<br/>
myself. I might have known she never<br/>
would have told me after that, but I did<br/>
not understand womankind as well then as<br/>
I have done since.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! you do know, then, do you?" she<br/>
said, coolly, with a merry twinkle in her<br/>
eye. "Then, of course, there is no need of<br/>
my telling you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No, I did not mean it, Jessie," I said,<br/>
penitently. "But do you love me? Will<br/>
you answer me, yes or no?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes or no," she answered, demurely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! Jessie Hale," I impatiently ex-<br/>
claimed, "you will drive me crazy."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A terrible misconception, surely," she said,<br/>
with a laugh, throwing dow???? work and<br/>
stepping through the low window upon the<br/>
lawn. "Now, Will, I will tell you what I<br/>
will do if you promise never to plague<br/>
me again about this."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I will tell you what I will do if you<br/>
will only give me an honest answer," I eagerly<br/>
said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, then, if you can catch me before<br/>
I reach the elm tree, I will give you a can-<br/>
did answer, upon my honor."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I thumped my head against the window<br/>
sash, and away I went over the green sward<br/>
with ten times more eagerness than I ever<br/>
displayed in playing catch in my boyhood<br/>
days. A very dignified proceeding truly,<br/>
for a staid surgeon. All the gossips in<br/>
Oakplace would have held up their hands<br/>
in pious horror had they seen me then; but<br/>
I did not care half the world saw me, no<br/>
intent was I on catching that flying gipsy<br/>
and catch her I did, before she was half
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Now, for the answer," I said eagerly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! but can't you wait until I get my<br/>
breath?" drawing it in quick, spasmodic<br/>
jerks, like some dilapidated steam engine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Let me see—what was it I promised to<br/>
tell you?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Whether you love me or not, you pro-<br/>
voking little wretch!" I said, fairly out of<br/>
patience.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Now, look here, Mr. Will—if you don't<br/>
leave off calling me names, I won't tell you<br/>
at all, though, perhaps, that is love talk, is<br/>
it? Will, I promised, you say?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Of course, you did; so, don't be all day<br/>
about it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"If you hurry me, I can't speak at all,<br/>
for it will take me some time to think over<br/>
the objects of my love to see if you are a-<br/>
mong them. Let me see," beginning to<br/>
count her fingers, "there is Chloe, that's<br/>
one; and Prince—though he hurt your arm,<br/>
you know—is two; and old Brindle is three;<br/>
Watch is four, and—let me see—yes, there<br/>
is Mr. William Tremaine is five."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I do not think I stopped to thank her<br/>
for that answer; and if my return to the<br/>
parlor was not as rapid as my exit, it was<br/>
certainly more dignified. I had taken my<br/>
hat, and was out of the gate before Jessie<br/>
had reached the house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I went home in no very enviable state of<br/>
mind, resolving that I never would go near<br/>
her again. But by the time I had reached<br/>
my study, my anger cooled considerably,<br/>
and I sat down in my arm-chair and began<br/>
to think of a plan, just as I had done a hun-<br/>
dred times before; I could outwit this<br/>
provoking little elf. Have her I would;<br/>
but how? That was the question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A letter for you, sir," cried out a boy<br/>
at the door.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I took the letter and tore it open: I was<br/>
too much occupied with my thoughts to<br/>
care much what its contents were; but the<br/>
first few lines fixd my attention. It was<br/>
from an uncle of mine, a surgeon in a flour-<br/>
ishing city, making me a very advantageous<br/>
offer if I would come and take his place.<br/>
This was just the situation I had been<br/>
watching for years, and I hailed it with de-<br/>
light now.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But Jessie," I thought, "could I leave<br/>
her!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A moment's reflection showed me what<br/>
was needed, for she really cared for me,<br/>
my absence would make her willing to<br/>
acknowledge it. It did not take long to<br/>
make my arrangements, and before night<br/>
they were all completed. The next mor-<br/>
ning I started for the station, calling at Mrs.<br/>
Hale's on my way to bid Jessie good bye.<br/>
I could see the little witch did not believe<br/>
one word of the story I told her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I hope, Mrs. Will, you won't break your<br/>
arm in the train; it would make it so bad<br/>
for you, she said, with a queer smile, as I<br/>
concluded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And you not there to cure it" I retort-<br/>
ed. " But, seriously, Jessie, I am in earn-<br/>
est now. It is probable I shall not see you<br/>
again for years, and if I like the place I shall<br/>
remain there."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She still believed it some trick, for her<br/>
eyes said plainly—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You can't cheat me again."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And she said good bye as coolly as if it<br/>
were only for a day. I went down the walk<br/>
feeling much as I think Adam must have<br/>
felt when he left Paradise, although his Eve<br/>
went with him, and I left mine behind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was well pleased with the place, and<br/>
was not long in accepting my uncle's pro-<br/>
posal. I wrote to this effect to a lawyer,<br/>
desiring him to dispose of my property at<br/>
Oakplace. I knew Jessie would hear of it,<br/>
and it would give her to understand that I<br/>
had no intention of returning, determined<br/>
that if I did not succeed this time I would<br/>
give her up forever, though my heart gave<br/>
a quick throb of pain at the thought.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was just at twilight of a pleasant Sep-<br/>
tember day when I reached Oakplace. Dir-<br/>
ert to Mr. Hale's I took my way, saying<br/>
over to myself as I went, "Now or never."<br/>
Straight up to the gravel walk and across<br/>
the broad lawn I went, and into the<br/>
dusky parlor, unannounced. By the dim<br/>
light, I saw Jessie sitting on a sofa, her<br/>
head resting on a pillow. She was alone,<br/>
and had not heard my step. Was she<br/>
asleep! A quick sob answered me. That<br/>
augurs well for my success. In a moment<br/>
I was kneeling beside her, and raised the<br/>
bowed head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Jessie, dear Jessie!" I said, tenderly,<br/>
scarcely knowing how she would receive<br/>
me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With a quick start and a glad cry of sur-<br/>
prise her head was pillowed on my bosom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! I am so glad to see you, Will.<br/>
They told me you would not return, and<br/>
I have been so lonely without you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And I have been lonely, too, Jessie,<br/>
darling," I said. "My home anywhere<br/>
would always be lonely without you. Will<br/>
you not go and share it with me?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The answer was very low, but I knew it<br/>
was in the affirmative.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Will you become my wife next week?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was determined to make sure work now.<br/>
There was some hesitation and a few objec-<br/>
tions raised, but I finally gained the same<br/>
answer to that.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then I hurried to the drawing room to<br/>
see the old folks. There was considerable<br/>
pleasure expressed at my unexpected ar-<br/>
rival, and great surprise, when my errand<br/>
was made known, and a few tears and re-<br/>
grets from the mother at parting with Jes-<br/>
sie, and hearty congratulations from the<br/>
father, concealed by the remark—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Is just as likely as not she will change<br/>
her mind while changing her dress."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think I accomplished more in that half<br/>
hour than I ever did in twice that length of<br/>
time before or since, for at its expiration I<br/>
was supremely happy. And the result was<br/>
that in a week I got the prettiest and best<br/>
little wife in the world; and, what is better<br/>
still, I think so now, even though she did<br/>
say, ten minutes after the ceremony——
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I never told you I loved you, Will."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And she never has to this day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
North American.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
End of a Gambler.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
  A correspondent of the Portsmouth<br/>
Journal given the following account of one<br/>
of the many victims of the gaming table:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Of the many evil influences incident to<br/>
fallen humanity, the passion for gaming<br/>
may be ranked among the foremost. For<br/>
the drunkard, even in the worst stages of<br/>
that degrading vice, there is hope; but there<br/>
is none for the victim to the fascinations of<br/>
the gaming table who once they have<br/>
seized him in their iron grasp. One of the<br/>
worst instances of this nature, in final re-<br/>
sults, that has ever come to my personal<br/>
knowledge, occurred in this vicinity in the<br/>
case of a physician, the son of a most<br/>
worthy clergyman, recently deceased. Af-<br/>
ter the usual struggles that most of the pro-<br/>
fession experience, he succeeded in obtain-<br/>
ing, through the aid of kind friends, a prac-<br/>
tice sufficiently remunerative, besides af-<br/>
fording all the comforts of life, to enable<br/>
him and his little family to make the res-<br/>
pectable appearance in the community, re-<br/>
quisite to continued success in his calling.<br/>
Notwithstanding this evident prosperity,<br/>
however, which had been greatly advanced<br/>
by the generous acknowledgment on the<br/>
part of some of the older and more expe-<br/>
rienced physicians of their confidence in<br/>
his ability, there was a mystery about him<br/>
that those who knew him most intimately<br/>
were unable to fathom. While living in<br/>
an economical manner, and pressing the<br/>
payment of his bills on the plea that his<br/>
necessities required it, he did not diminish<br/>
the debts he had contracted to enable him<br/>
to acquire a knowledge of his profession;<br/>
obligations, in some instances, that he was<br/>
bound by every principle of honor and<br/>
gratitude to redeem, shared a like fate.<br/>
So far from reducing his liabilities, he was<br/>
continually adding to them,—often pro-<br/>
curing pecuniary aid from friends on various<br/>
pretences of sudden and unanticipated<br/>
need, which were found to be the grossest<br/>
fabrications. After living for several years<br/>
in this way, he accepted the situation of<br/>
surgeon on board a steamer bound to vari-<br/>
ous distant ports, on a voyage of about a<br/>
year's duration, giving as a reason declin-<br/>
ing health; but instead of returning home<br/>
in the vessel on her return, to resume his<br/>
practice, which he had left in the hands of<br/>
another member of the profession, he left<br/>
the steamer, and sent for his family to join<br/>
him at San Francisco.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From that time little was heard of him;<br/>
he forgotten was, in a measure, until the<br/>
details reached his former place of residence.<br/>
through the journals of San Francisco, of<br/>
one of the most awful tragedies, in which<br/>
he was the chief actor, that ever transpired<br/>
in a civilized community.  He had oc-<br/>
cupied the upper portion of a dwelling,<br/>
and nothing being seen of him or his family<br/>
for an unusual length of time, his fellow<br/>
tenants became alarmed, and failing to ob-<br/>
tain admittance by other means, broke<br/>
open the door, when a most frightful spec-<br/>
tacle presented itself.  He was found lying<br/>
in bed, with one arm extended over a<br/>
water-pail that was nearly filled with blood,<br/>
and had apparently been dead many hours;<br/>
by his side was his wife, and in an adjoin-<br/>
ing room their daughter and only child,<br/>
about ten years of age, in both of whom<br/>
life was also extinct.  From a couple<br/>
of brief notes that he had left, it was learned<br/>
that being in destitute circumstances,<br/>
he had administered strychnine to his family,<br/>
and then committed suicide by opening the<br/>
veins in his arm.  It seemed that in the<br/>
case of his child, the poison had not pro-<br/>
duced death so soon as he wished, and he<br/>
had then fractured her skull with an iron<br/>
window weight, that bore evidences of<br/>
having been used for that purpose. Such<br/>
a frightful tale of murder and suicide<br/>
naturaly excited, at first, the greatest as-<br/>
tonishment among those who remembered<br/>
him here only as a respectable physician,<br/>
until the fact became known that he had<br/>
been for a long time a confirmed gambler,<br/>
which fully explained, as a matter of course,<br/>
all that bad previously been incomprehen-<br/>
sible in his character. One of the most<br/>
thrilling of the dramas of a former day is<br/>
'The Gambler's Fate,' but it presents noth-<br/>
ing that equals the closing scene of this<br/>
modern tragedy of real life.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jesuitism.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Concluded from page 207.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is time but to glance at the achieve-<br/>
ments of the Society. It excelled specially<br/>
in educational and missionary enterprises.<br/>
The former we have already noticed; the<br/>
latter they pushed so rapidly, that before<br/>
the Order was fifteen years old, missions<br/>
were established in every quarter of the<br/>
globe, and their converts? were numbered<br/>
by hundreds of thousands. Among their<br/>
missionaries, Francis Xaiver must be ac-<br/>
corded a first place. His first field was<br/>
India. The accounts of his labors there<br/>
are most wonderful. By a single sermon,<br/>
it is said, he often converted 1000 sinners!<br/>
He walked the streets of Goa ringing a bell<br/>
to attract the crowd of licentious inhabi-<br/>
tants, and when gathered, would melt them<br/>
to tears by the fervor of his eloquence. He
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
visited in turn every part of India, also<br/>
Japan, China, Malacca, Ceylon and the neigh-<br/>
boring islands, where he planted churches<br/>
and founded colleges without number.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Brasil the missions were equally suc-<br/>
cessful. Antonia Rodrigues baptized in a<br/>
single year no less than 5539 disciples, and<br/>
on one occasion 1150! Of course the in-<br/>
genuius reader may entertain a doubt<br/>
whether all these easily turned Christians<br/>
received also the baptism of the Spirit.<br/>
Even Jesuit records fail not to disclose the<br/>
speedy apostacy of thousands of such<br/>
converts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In every land where they carried their<br/>
missions, they won, if possible, first the gov-<br/>
ernment to their cause, and became confes-<br/>
sors of the king, and thus at one time they<br/>
were possessed of the secrets of every pow-<br/>
er in Europe. In England and Spain they<br/>
were most active agents in the political<br/>
revolutions of their times. All the parties<br/>
engaged in the famous gunpowder plot<br/>
were Jesuits, instigated by the noted Par-<br/>
sons and his coadjutors, who plotted the<br/>
rankest treason against the British crown.<br/>
It was in fact their effort to usurp political<br/>
Authority, which finally alarmed Europe and<br/>
led to the abolition of the Society by the<br/>
ban of Pope Clement XIV, 1775.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They had previously been impeached for<br/>
high treason in Portugal and banished 1759.<br/>
In 1764 they were driven from France as<br/>
dangers to the state. They thus contin-<br/>
ued under ban for a period of about fifty<br/>
years, or untill 1814 when by a bull from<br/>
Pius VII the order of Jesuits was restored<br/>
throughout the world. During the present<br/>
century they have attempted to regain their<br/>
former status but with poor success. The<br/>
spread of liberal views in Italy, Portugal<br/>
and parts of France and Germany has great-<br/>
ly weakened the Order, and for the last<br/>
few years it has been the unmost that these<br/>
soldiers of the Pope could do, to keep His<br/>
Holiness upon the throne, a feat which<br/>
there is reason to believe cannot much<br/>
longer be accomplished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The origin, progress, and fall of the "So-<br/>
ciety of Jesus" has thus been rapidly and<br/>
by consequence imperfectly sketched. We<br/>
have seen how the Order from its germinal<br/>
state, in the Utopian, or rather Quixotian<br/>
brain of a wounded Spanish cavalier, was<br/>
rapidly developed amid the conflict and ex-<br/>
citement attending the great religious Re-<br/>
formation of the 16th century;—how dex-<br/>
terously the machinery and all the appliances<br/>
of the Society were fitted for the achieve-<br/>
ment of the intended purposes, and how,<br/>
nestled in the very bosom of the parent<br/>
church, and protected by her folds, it in-<br/>
fused new and unprecedented vigor into the<br/>
papal hierarchy, and grew in the short space<br/>
of two centuries to such marvelous dimen-<br/>
sions as seriously to threaten, not only the<br/>
stability of all the powers of Europe, but<br/>
even the subversion of the Church herself.<br/>
Of the crimes perpetrated by the Society,—-<br/>
of the wrong system of morals which they<br/>
inculcated,—-of the astounding schemes<br/>
of casuistry which they invented,—-of<br/>
the immense dispensary of anodynes for<br/>
wounded consciences, which they introdu-<br/>
ced into their confessionals, and thus, if they<br/>
could not reclaim from guilt, would, at least,<br/>
save from remorse,-—of all these and more<br/>
details of their history we have no time to<br/>
speak.  We beg to offer one or two reflec-<br/>
tions regarding the true significance of the<br/>
Jesuit movement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When Loyala came to the rescue of the<br/>
Romish church he found it in the greatest<br/>
peril.  Dissensions and corruptions within,<br/>
and the attacks of Protestantism from with-<br/>
out were daily decimating not less its in-<br/>
fluence than the number of its votaries.<br/>
Ignatius, filled with the chivalric spirit of<br/>
the times, saw the danger which threatened<br/>
the Papacy, and gallantly went forth to its<br/>
defense.  His quick eye detected the weak<br/>
places in the walls of his Zion, and he at<br/>
once set himself to repair the breach.  The<br/>
ingenuity he displayed is worthy of all ad-<br/>
miration.  The most popular cry raised<br/>
against the Catholic clergy of the day was<br/>
their extortion and avariciousness. Igna-<br/>
tius stipulated that his troops, however im-<br/>
portant might be their functions, should<br/>
have no pay. Licentiousness was guarded<br/>
against by the most solemn oaths of chast-<br/>
ity. Demoralization was forestalled by the<br/>
supreme virtue of obedience. The con-<br/>
tempt with which the monks had come to<br/>
be held, was escaped by imposing no rules<br/>
or regulations upon the active, public ser-<br/>
vants of the Order. They kept no fasts,<br/>
chanted no anthems, wore no cowls;—-did<br/>
nothing which would in the least distinguish<br/>
them from men of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"When in Rome they did as Romans<br/>
did." In England they passed for Puritan<br/>
preachers; in China as disciples of Confucius<br/>
come to further unfold his great doctrines;<br/>
in Siam as new expounders of the mysteries<br/>
of Buddhism. "The end sanctifies the means,"<br/>
was their constant motto, and hence they<br/>
were ready to perpetrate any crime in the<br/>
calendar, if by it they could—as they sup-<br/>
posed—contribute to the greater glory of<br/>
God,—ad gloriam mojoram Dei. They<br/>
boasted, and still boast, (for they are the<br/>
same today as a century ago) that the main<br/>
facts of the Gospel were concealed from<br/>
the heathen converts, and they permitted<br/>
them still to bow the knee to false gods if<br/>
internally they would but repeat paters<br/>
and aves. Thus instead of elevating hu-<br/>
manity, they degraded the standard of re-<br/>
ligion to the level of corrupt society. Ev-<br/>
erywhere their spirit was the same, devo-<br/>
tion to a common cause, and obedience to<br/>
a central authority. Faith in ultimate auc-<br/>
cess, and untiring energy in its pursuit, a<br/>
careful selection of instruments, strict meth-<br/>
od and unity of effort and purpose, were<br/>
the means by which they accomplished so<br/>
great results. That the Society has retard-<br/>
ed the spread of correct moral principles<br/>
and the growth of true piety cannot be<br/>
doubted, and the undying prejudice im-<br/>
planted in the breasts of the heathen against<br/>
Christianity, by their hypocritical insinua-<br/>
tions, and too often base treachery, is one of<br/>
the most serious evils against which the<br/>
pure light of the Gospel has to contend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And yet we are far from saying that Je-<br/>
suitism is wholly bad. In every picture<br/>
there are some shades of light. Absolute<br/>
darkness is never discernible. Evil and<br/>
good we ever find commingled here. The<br/>
Jesuits have given us the best exponent of<br/>
Roman Catholicism the world has seen.<br/>
They are and ever have been the chosen<br/>
defenders and representatives of the Papal<br/>
See. In educational and missionary enter-<br/>
prises they have led the world, and have<br/>
provoked others to similar good works.<br/>
And while with no regret, we see the star<br/>
of their destiny rapidly waning before the<br/>
advancing light of liberty and Christian<br/>
truth, we must yet believe that many of the<br/>
eminent servants of the Order, and perhaps<br/>
its illustrious founder, were actuated by a<br/>
genuine Christian zeal in the prosecution<br/>
of their work. The names of Francis Xavier,<br/>
Borgia, and Lainez, are worthy to be cher-<br/>
ished with kindly remembrance, and the<br/>
noble virtues which they exercised may well<br/>
be an example to the flock of Christ in all<br/>
ages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
C.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Court.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the first King of Siam left<br/>
Bangkok for Ayuddhia on the 20th Novem-<br/>
ber to be present at the ceremony of laying<br/>
the foundation stones at three several<br/>
places, viz:—at the old royal residence at<br/>
Chandr Xem, or Chandr—Ksem Palace,<br/>
for the rebuilding of three distinguished<br/>
Royal houses namely "Vimanrathey" and<br/>
two Phra Parsuess left and right, which<br/>
have been there from the time that Ayud-<br/>
dhia first was the capital, when it was<br/>
occupied sometimes by the Kings and<br/>
sometimes by the Second Kings and Subor-<br/>
dinate Kings during several reigns. This<br/>
palace was built in the year corresponding<br/>
to 1399 of the Christian era. It lay in ruins<br/>
for a period of 90 years from 1767 till 1857,<br/>
when the walls were rebuilt and restored<br/>
to their former state, and some of the royal<br/>
houses were partly rebuilt. But the king<br/>
has determined to carry forward the work of<br/>
restoration near the high Tower which was<br/>
repaired last year. And His Majesty laid<br/>
the first stone at Temple Khamin near that<br/>
palace about 100 yards from it on the west<br/>
side. His Majesty also commenced repairing<br/>
the buildings at the great and high<br/>
Pagoda of Temple Khoon Seen which had<br/>
fallen to ruin and had been recently<br/>
repaired. His Majesty collected funds from<br/>
many thousands of Buddhist people to the<br/>
amount of 18000 tails to which His Majesty<br/>
added a donation of his own of 9000 Ticals.<br/>
The people were ready to contribute to<br/>
the work because they wished to have the<br/>
Pagodas large and high (about 100 cubits)<br/>
and falling to ruins; to be rebuilt as it was<br/>
situated only 3600 yards from that old<br/>
palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The other Monastery with a pagoda<br/>
named Wat Senasn was repaired by the<br/>
king at his own personal expense of 50,000<br/>
ticals, now nearly completed. The repairs<br/>
were commenced about the time of the<br/>
rebulding of Chandra Xem palace three year<br/>
ago. It is now occupied by a party of<br/>
Buddhist priests. It situated about 160<br/>
yards from the wall of the palace at the<br/>
South western side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty returned to Bangkok on<br/>
the 24th ulto arriving at 1 o'clock A.M.<br/>
and unfortunately met with the loss of<br/>
his royal aunt aged 75 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She died of Asthma at 1 o'clock and<br/>
50 minutes A.M. while the king was yet<br/>
remaining at his landing place holding con-<br/>
versation with his ministers who waited<br/>
on him on his return.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Second King is yet remaining at<br/>
his palace at Sitha, Sarapury, enjoying the<br/>
air at that place. He says the climate<br/>
there is better than that of Bangkok, al-<br/>
though it is said that five of his attendents<br/>
or suite died of the fever early in the<br/>
month of November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fever was superabundant at Ayuddhia<br/>
the latter part of October and the fore<br/>
part of November. But since the strong<br/>
North winds came continually on the the<br/>
17th and 18th unto the fever almost disap-<br/>
peared.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Deaths in the royal family
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her Royal Highness Maninili the 12th<br/>
Royal daughter or 38th of Royal offspring<br/>
of his late Majesty the first Supreme King<br/>
of Siam the founder of the present royal<br/>
dynasty, was born August 1790, aged 75<br/>
years. She died of Asthma which first at-<br/>
tacked her seven months ago. She expired<br/>
at 1 o'clock 50 minutes A. M. on the 25th<br/>
November local civil day—-or 7 hours and<br/>
8 minutes after noon at Greenwich at 24th<br/>
November by astronomical day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The royal offspring of his late Majesty<br/>
the first Sovereign were almost expired.<br/>
There is only one living named Her Royal<br/>
Highness Princess 'Phlap' the 6th Royal<br/>
daughter born on July 1784 now aged 81<br/>
years. She is still living though she is ap-<br/>
pearing very lean and strengthens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On His Majesty's late visit to Ayuddhia<br/>
the King together with certain party of his<br/>
ministers consulted to abolish the gambling<br/>
of Hue at Ayuddhia and Bejrepuary<br/>
(called P'etch'abury) for improvement of<br/>
rice farm. But it is not yet certain—it will<br/>
be in next year.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_5_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Married
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the Hanseatic Consulate, on the 29th<br/>
inst. Johann Carl Radow, surnamed John-<br/>
son of Lubeck, to Charlotte Palmer of Ply-<br/>
mouth.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_5_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the China Express October 17.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.—The King and Queen of Por-<br/>
tugal have left for Brussels, but will return<br/>
to Compiegne. The statement that Count<br/>
Walewsky is about to leave on a mission to<br/>
Florence is incorrect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRUSSIA.—A Berlin paper says:—The<br/>
cordial reception of Count Bismark by the<br/>
Emperor Napoleon, and the observations of<br/>
his Majesty upon pending questions, are<br/>
guarantees for the continuance of friendly<br/>
relations between France and Prussia. The<br/>
Crown Prince and Princess will shortly ar-<br/>
rive in England, on a visit for three weeks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AUSTRIA.—Rear-Admiral Baron von<br/>
Wullerzdorff-Uhrai, in assuming his func-<br/>
tions as Minister of Commerce, said:—"It<br/>
is necessary for Austria that all commerce<br/>
should be free, and that labour should re-<br/>
ceive a better remuneration. All obstacles<br/>
which oppose the free development of ma-<br/>
terial interests ought to be removed. The<br/>
centre of our action does not lie in our of-<br/>
fices alone, we must seek it in the world<br/>
beyond."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
POLAND.—The Commissioners of Justice<br/>
at Warsaw have announced that the state of<br/>
siege will be raised at the opening of 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SPAIN.—The cholera in Madrid has been<br/>
severe, and more than 60,000 people have<br/>
fled from the scourge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PORTUGAL.—Don Fernando has taken<br/>
the usual oaths as Regent during the ab-<br/>
sence of his son, the King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—The last accounts have<br/>
created some alarm in regard to the Mexi-<br/>
can question. In a dispatch by Mr. Seward<br/>
it is stated that the United States will not<br/>
permit further troops to be sent by France.<br/>
Mr. Hall, the Arctic explorer, reports that<br/>
he fully expects to find some of the Frank-<br/>
lin expedition. The public debt amounts<br/>
to $2,745,000,000. The Secretary of the<br/>
Treasury had intimated that he was pre-<br/>
pared to issue $50,000,000 of Six per Cent.<br/>
5-20 Bonds at 103, in exchange for com-<br/>
pound interest notes, one and two year<br/>
Treasury notes, and certificates of indebt-<br/>
edness maturing before the 1st of January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mexico.—An Imperial decree had been<br/>
published, declaring Mexico open to emig-<br/>
ration from all countries. Every emigrant<br/>
will receive a grant of land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
West Indies.—The accounts of the<br/>
weather and crops are good. Several per-<br/>
sons had been drowned at Demerara by a<br/>
boat accident, including Capt. Beresford,<br/>
Secretary to the Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The New Governor for Hongkong.<br/>
—Sir Richard Macdonnell has arrived from<br/>
Nova Scotia, and will proceed to Hong-<br/>
Kong next month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE FENIANS.—-Fifty-seven arrests have<br/>
been made and disposed of as follows:-—<br/>
Thirty-three are sent for trial, six bailed<br/>
out, two have become Crown witnesses, one<br/>
transferred to Tuam one discharged, and<br/>
fourteen remain to be disposed of. Each<br/>
mail from New York brings accounts of<br/>
extensive convictions in America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAVAL AND MILITARY.—-The Basilisk<br/>
sails to-day for China. Dr. Rennie, form-<br/>
erly attached to the Embassy at Peking,<br/>
has returned to England in charge of troops<br/>
from Calcutta.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE "ALABAMA," AND OTHER CLAIMS —-<br/>
The correspondence has been published.<br/>
Earl Russell declines to admit the Alaba-<br/>
ma's, but agrees to a commission to decide<br/>
on other claims pro and con.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
There is nothing so great that I fear to<br/>
do for my friend, nor nothing so small that<br/>
I will disdain to do for him,-—Sir Philip<br/>
Sidney.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Advocate of Buddhism
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Second Answer
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have beard your reply to mine and<br/>
should I decline any reply to it, the Siamese<br/>
might attribute it to great ignorance. I beg<br/>
therefore to answer it briefly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You say that you fear that most of the<br/>
persons who have professed the Christian<br/>
religion in Siam are only Christians in<br/>
name and not in heart, and that therefore<br/>
there is little or no prosperity and glory<br/>
among them. Now touching this matter I<br/>
have carefully observed that the natives of<br/>
Siam who profess Christianity are much<br/>
more strict in the observance of it than the<br/>
Europeans who reside in Siam. They are<br/>
quite careless about religion, and seldom<br/>
or never enter a Christian place of wor-<br/>
ship. Now why is it that those men have<br/>
greater prosperity than the native Christians<br/>
of Siam?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again I have heard it said that in<br/>
Europe there is a large class of men who<br/>
once derided the Christian religion and<br/>
did not suffer any damage by such conduct;<br/>
that afterwards they turned their minds<br/>
and went to praising God and praying to<br/>
him. And finally, seeing that they got<br/>
nothing for their devotions, they made up<br/>
their minds that there is no living author<br/>
of Christianity and no maker of the worlds,<br/>
and that whatever is good or evil is only<br/>
in consequence of the eternal concentation<br/>
of natural causes and effects without any<br/>
Almighty ruler.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again you ask if the English at the<br/>
beginning of their nation were not ignorant<br/>
woodsmen, and that when Christianity en-<br/>
tered their villages and cities did they not<br/>
begin their career of prosperity under<br/>
its benign influences? I beg leave to answer<br/>
that I think England has prospered only<br/>
because she has given birth to many good<br/>
and wise men, and because she has had an<br/>
excellent copy of customs and laws, and<br/>
her sons have followed righteousness—For<br/>
these reasons she has become a great nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And finally how is it that other nations<br/>
which hold that a living God bestows<br/>
favors upon man, and hold to Christianity,<br/>
all the same as the English, French,<br/>
and the Americans, and do not prosper like<br/>
them? I beg that you will consider this.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The effect of Marriage.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Doubtless you have remarked with satis-<br/>
faction how the little oddities of men who<br/>
marry rather late in life are pruned away<br/>
speedily after their marriage. You have<br/>
found a man who used to be shabbily and<br/>
carelessly dressed with a huge shirt collar<br/>
frayed at the edges, and a glaring yellow<br/>
silk pocket handkerchief, broken of these<br/>
things and become a pattern of neatness.<br/>
You have seen a man whose hair and<br/>
whiskers were ridiculously cut, speedily be-<br/>
come like other human beings. You have<br/>
seen a clergyman who wore a long beard<br/>
in a little while appear without one. You<br/>
have seen a man who took snuff copiously,<br/>
and who generally had his breast covered<br/>
with snuff, abandon the vile habit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A wife is the grand wielder of the moral<br/>
pruning knife. If Johnson's wife had lived,<br/>
there would have been no hoarding up of<br/>
bits of orange peel; no touching all the<br/>
posts in walking along the street; no eating<br/>
and drinking with a disgusting voracity. If<br/>
Oliver Goldsmith had been married, he<br/>
would never have worn that memorable and<br/>
ridiculous coat. Whenever you find a man<br/>
whom you know little about oddly dressed,<br/>
or talking ridiculously, or exhibiting any<br/>
eccentricity of manner, you may be tolera-<br/>
bly sure that he is not a married man. The<br/>
little corners are rounded off, and the little<br/>
shoots are pruned away in married men.<br/>
Wives generally have much more sense<br/>
than their husbands, especially when the<br/>
husbands are clever men. The wife's ad-<br/>
vices are like the ballast that keeps the ship<br/>
steady. They are like the wholesome though<br/>
painful shears, snipping off little growths of<br/>
self-conceit and folly.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siamese Brig Railway
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Peterson of the Hing Hoi re-<br/>
ports having received a letter from Cap-<br/>
tain Hansel of the missing Brig Railway<br/>
stating that the vessel had reached a<br/>
port in Hainan, named Haikow. The<br/>
letter was dated 11th of October, and<br/>
stated that after he left Hong Kong he<br/>
fell into a typhoon and lost both masts,<br/>
and had not a spare spar on board, and<br/>
was drifting at the mercy of the winds and<br/>
currents. There a British steamer took<br/>
the Brig in tow for 12 hours, but the<br/>
wind increasing, the steamer had to leave<br/>
her to herself, as the Captain of the steam-<br/>
er expected a typhoon, and after the<br/>
steamer left a typhoon ce?ne on and the<br/>
Brig leaking very much, and rolling very<br/>
heavily. After the gale was over they<br/>
found the vessel near the island of Hai-<br/>
nan, and managed to get in to Haikow, all<br/>
safe with all hands, but a great deal of<br/>
sickness on board. At Haikow he found<br/>
the Siamese barques Seaforth, and Sirius.<br/>
The Sirius was driven on shore by the<br/>
previous gale, and was still on shore, but<br/>
it was expected she would be got off again.<br/>
The Chinchews of the Seaforth and the<br/>
Sirius promised to lend the Chinchew of<br/>
the Railway money to get her bottom<br/>
caulked on a bank and to buy spars and<br/>
rigg her junk rig to bring her to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Race Horse had not arrived in<br/>
Hong Kong when the Hing Hoi left No-<br/>
vember 5th. On the 17th September she<br/>
was seen by the Hamburg Barque Etien-<br/>
ne near the Macclesfield Bank
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese ships arrived at Hong Kong<br/>
from Chefoo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Princess Saraphi. Senator, Contest,<br/>
Denmark, Amy, Douglas, Walter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Flying Fish from Newchang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Canton was expected daily at<br/>
Hong Kong from Swatow, junk rigged.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_6_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last issue, we published an ar-<br/>
ticle from the highest authority, stating<br/>
that while His Majesty the supreme king<br/>
cannot yet see the utility of complying<br/>
with the oft repeated, and consequently<br/>
almost disgusting exhortations of his Eu-<br/>
ropean friends to launch out at once into<br/>
the enterprise of making railroads and tele-<br/>
graph lines, and thinks it would (to use<br/>
his own homely figure) "be better to spend<br/>
the money that would be required for that,<br/>
in the purchase of fuel for the burning of<br/>
the dead bodies of dogs, and for the hire<br/>
of persons to go all about the country to<br/>
gather them up for the burning," he is<br/>
ready to embark in public enterprises that<br/>
will certainly be of great utility to his<br/>
kingdom. He says, that in addition to the<br/>
new rod already completed, he has deter-<br/>
mind to construct two more.  One of<br/>
them is to commence at the old  Tapenhán<br/>
of which Chow Phya P'oot'araph'ai is to<br/>
have the charge.  The other is to be made<br/>
from Wat Chána Songk'ram from straight to<br/>
the palace of Krŏm Mun Mahĕsuan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The writer says, furthermore, that His<br/>
Majesty has already determined to cut<br/>
many other new canals besides the qua now<br/>
being made from T'a-cheen River to<br/>
Bangkok, thinking that they will greatly<br/>
improve the facilities for cultivating rice<br/>
and making orchards and gardens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We fondly hope that His Majesty will<br/>
press forward without delay in these no-<br/>
ble projects, which he cannot be too san-<br/>
guine will eventuate in great good to his<br/>
people, and enduring honor to his name.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FAH KEE. This unfortunate craft after<br/>
splashing around in the gulf bottom up for<br/>
nearly a year is now laying right side up,<br/>
at the premises of Messrs. Virgin & Co.—<br/>
she looks a little the worse for salt water,<br/>
but we believe is very little injured by<br/>
worms, and can be easily repaired. Those<br/>
who had charge of the work of getting her<br/>
up deserve great credit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Minister left<br/>
on the evening of 20 ult, to prepare for the<br/>
reception of His Majesty, the supreme king<br/>
on the day following at the place where<br/>
the king contemplated the construction of<br/>
a canal through the prairies between Bang-<br/>
kok and the old city. We learn that the<br/>
route was to be newly surveyed under the<br/>
special supervision of His Majesty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rice crop, we learn from the best au-<br/>
thority is uniformly promising, and that<br/>
there is no fear of any damage resulting to<br/>
it by the small showers we are now occa-<br/>
sionally having. The only fear is that the<br/>
reapers in consequence of the overflow-<br/>
ing water, abating but slowly, will have to<br/>
reap much of the rice in the water, and thus<br/>
suffer from the leeches that abound in the<br/>
paddy fields.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Married.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this city at the residence of Doctor J.<br/>
Campbell R. N. on Wednesday, the 29th<br/>
ulto. by the Rev. D. B. Bradley M. D.<br/>
George G. Graham, of New York U. S.<br/>
Superintendent of A. M. A. Printing Office,<br/>
to Mrs. Eliza Franke of Edinburg, Scotland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DEATHS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Nov. 25 at 3½ O'clock P. M. C. H<br/>
Thomas, (Coloured) He leaves a discon-<br/>
solate widow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At H. B. M's Consulate Bangkok at<br/>
3. 15 P. M. on the 26th ulto. of Acute<br/>
Dysentery, Robert Campbell Burn, late a<br/>
Captain in H. B. M's Indian Army. De-<br/>
ceased, was about 35 years of age.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To be sold without reserve<br/>
by public auction at the re-<br/>
sidence of Messrs. SCHILL<br/>
MALHERBE & Co. the whole<br/>
of the goods contained within<br/>
the premises of the above<br/>
named firm. The sale is in<br/>
consequence of the death of<br/>
Mr. Paul Schill one of the<br/>
partners in the said firm.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The sale will commence<br/>
at 10 A.M. on Monday 4th<br/>
Dec. 1865, and will be con-<br/>
tinued on the following days,<br/>
until all the goods are dis-<br/>
posed of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TERMS Cash before deliv-<br/>
ery of the goods. All the<br/>
risk will be on the purchaser<br/>
from the fall of the hammer.<br/>
The goods must be removed<br/>
on the following morning<br/>
from the date of sale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
C. S. ACHUNE
AUCTIONEER
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons indebted to the<br/>
late Chas. H. Thomas, are<br/>
hereby requested to make im-<br/>
mediate payment to the United<br/>
States Consul; and all persons<br/>
having claims against, the said<br/>
Chas. H. Thomas will present<br/>
them properly authenticated<br/>
at the U.S. Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. Hood
by order U. S. Consul
Bangkok, Nov. 27th
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I hereby notify that I will not be an-<br/>
swerable for any debt or debts contracted<br/>
by the officers or crew of the Barque<br/>
Faithful:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 1st December 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
H. PHILLIPS.
Master.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ode to my new bonnet.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Soft triangles of straw and lace,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That curves around my blushing face<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With such a a'cey, bewitching grace,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No mortal man would dream your place<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Was on my head.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Your airy touch can scarcely press,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The shape from curl or flowing tress,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So light, so next to nothingness,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}You surely could not well be less.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And be a bonnet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A bit of straw adorned with leather,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A yard of lace, a spray of heather,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Some bugles and a tossing feather,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}These trifles maketh all together—-<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Thus were you made.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No cape with starkly settling lined,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No bracken crown projected behind;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But streamers flutter in the wind—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}There flows, in silken mesh confined,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}My waterfall.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yet most your dainty form I prize.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As sweeping back above mine eyes<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It lets the drinkled hillocks rise,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where underneath in ambush lies<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}My pair of mice.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But when rough autumn windsweep past,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And all your faces shake aghast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Then can you shield me from the blast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And round my neck a shelter cast<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}To keep me warm !<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Alas ! a summer friend are you,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And only kind while skies are blue ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I long have known the saying true—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Old friends are better than the new<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}When trouble comes.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So ere the dog-day heats be led,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Let me your flimsy glories spread;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For soon as winter whistles dread<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I'll tie once more about my head<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}My old scoop bonnet.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Arrivals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam Barque Denmark, 328 tons, Prowse<br/>
commander. Hong Kong Nov. 18th   Con-<br/>
signees Tat Sue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch Barque Erteling, 106 tons, Koch<br/>
commander, Singapore Nov. 6th   Consignees<br/>
Chinese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam Steamer Chow Phya, 253 tons, Or-<br/>
ton Commander, Singapore Nov. 26th<br/>
Consignees Pot Yim.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya: Messrs. Blake,<br/>
Odams, Henri & Fisher.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—is now<br/>
ready to receive Vessels of any burthen<br/>
and the attention of Ship Owners,<br/>
Agents and Masters is respectfully<br/>
solicited to the advantages for Repair-<br/>
ing and Sparring Vessels which no<br/>
other Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of the<br/>
Premises is submitted for the informa-<br/>
tion of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of wa-<br/>
ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Length. 300 feet. (to be extended)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breadth. 100 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Depth of Water 15 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Caisson,<br/>
has a splendid entrance of 120 feet<br/>
from the River with a spacious Jetty on<br/>
each side, where Vessels of any size<br/>
may lay at any state of the Tides, to<br/>
lift Masts, Boilers etc.—with Powerful<br/>
Lifting Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring Dis-<br/>
patch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the differ-<br/>
ent departments of Ship-wrights, Mast<br/>
and Black Makers, Blacksmiths,<br/>
Engineers, Foundry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended by<br/>
Europeans who have had many years<br/>
experience in the different branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best picked<br/>
men from Hongkong and Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular at-<br/>
tention to the Great advantages this<br/>
Dock offers, being in a Port where<br/>
the best Teak and other Timber can<br/>
be had at the cheapest cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in con-<br/>
nection with the Dock to insure dis-<br/>
patch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in height<br/>
and can be taken out or shifted with-<br/>
out cutting or causing any expense to<br/>
ships having to get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared to<br/>
give estimates or enter into Contracts<br/>
for the repairing of Wooden or Iron<br/>
Ships; or the Building of New Ships,<br/>
Steam Boats, etc. or any kind of work<br/>
connected with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may lay<br/>
at the Company's Buoy's or Wharf free<br/>
of charge until ordered to remove by<br/>
the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leaving<br/>
the Dock must approve and sign<br/>
there-—Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting the<br/>
docking to be addressed until further<br/>
notice to the undersigned by whom all<br/>
Bills will be signed and collected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN BUSH
Managing Director.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. St. Cyr Jul-<br/>
ien in our firm ceased from this date, and<br/>
Mr. T. M. Alloin will sign by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam<br/>
Nov. 1st 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the public-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Nov 22d 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Messrs SCHILL MALHERBE<br/>
& Co. beg leave to inform, the<br/>
public that in consequence of<br/>
the decease of their late part-<br/>
ner PAUL SCHILL Esq. the<br/>
firm is under the necessity of<br/>
liquidating their business, and<br/>
that hence all claims against<br/>
the firm should be sent in, also<br/>
all bills due to the firm paid<br/>
without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_8_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to in<br/>
form the public that the Custom<br/>
Office has been removed to<br/>
the premises formerly posses-<br/>
sed by Messrs John Gunn &<br/>
Co at Kok-kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ESTATE OF ROBERT HUNTER, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been appointed ad-<br/>
ministrator of the Estate of the late Robert<br/>
Hunter, who died at Bangkok on 19th April last,<br/>
requests that all parties indebted to the said<br/>
Estate will make immediate payment, and that<br/>
all who have claims thereon, will send in the<br/>
same without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
R. S. SCOTT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok,<br/>
31st October 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would here-<br/>
by inform the public that he<br/>
has a free daily post boat con-<br/>
nected with the printing office<br/>
of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles above<br/>
the centre of foreign business,<br/>
is virtually brought to the<br/>
doors of all the Consulates<br/>
and foreign merchants, at least<br/>
once a day, (Sunday's except-<br/>
ed) and twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port. The<br/>
regular daily boat is dispatch-<br/>
ed from the office about 9 A. M.<br/>
and the occasional boat at 1<br/>
P. M. The post boy will call<br/>
at each of the Consulates, and<br/>
at the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for letters,<br/>
or other business for the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers, can<br/>
be left in charge of W. H.<br/>
Hamilton Esqr. at Messer Vir-<br/>
gin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r49">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Ownehand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do <span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Meekhlong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Kim Sing Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">98</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">[....]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Beock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Omar Pasha</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Clark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hing Hoi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kimrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">256</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">[....]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Falstine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Sievert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hamb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Tun Wall [..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Prendenburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">St.Marys</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Creed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">681</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">192</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Geogre Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">497</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ningpin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam.<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Tinghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">107</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Stolse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam.<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Nestor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">388</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Schrmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">442</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Frederic Hendric</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Glazner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">523</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Holl. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Meeklong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_10_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following are the latest telegrams<br/>
brought by the M. L. steamer Tigre, as<br/>
well as those brought by the Behar to<br/>
Penang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LATEST TELEGRAM RECEIVED AT GALLE
THE INDIO-EUROPEAN LINE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 10th Oct.—Manchester dull.<br/>
Shipping 55s, 5d, Twist 3s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 11th Oct.—Dhollers 18¼ firm-<br/>
er. estimated that Army worm has de-<br/>
stroyed one fourth American Cotton Crop.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 12th October.—Dhollers fair<br/>
nearly one penny dearer. Sales 25,000<br/>
bales.—Reported Austria accepts pecuniary<br/>
compensation for surrender favor Prussia<br/>
her claims to Schleswig Holstein. French<br/>
and German paper deny political object.<br/>
Count Bismarck visited Napoleon at Biarritz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 13th Oct.—fair Dhollers 19d.<br/>
market strong. Sales 20,000 bales Man-<br/>
chester market firm, but little doing, 7 lb<br/>
40 inch Shirtings 15s. 6d. @ 16s. No. 40<br/>
Twist 2s. 4d. By advices received by<br/>
West India mail we learn revolution in<br/>
Peru increasing. Government Salvador ex-<br/>
ecuted late President. General revolution-<br/>
ary movement taking place throughout<br/>
New Granada. Insurrection in Hayti virtu-<br/>
ally subsided. Spaniards completely eva-<br/>
cuated San Dominago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Guadeloupe devastated by a hurricane.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 14th Oct.—Fair Dhollera 19½<br/>
great activity in the market considerable<br/>
business done. Rates gradually rising.<br/>
American correspondent London Times<br/>
asserts that President Johnson has notified<br/>
that further interference in Mexican affairs<br/>
will not be allowed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 18th Oct.—Lord Palmerston<br/>
dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 21st October.—Dollars 19d.<br/>
steady, freely supplied.  Sales 10,000 Con-<br/>
sols 8s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lord Palmerston died on the 18th<br/>
October.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, Oct. 20th.—Money Abundant.<br/>
Fair demand for Discount, Queen sent<br/>
for Russell regarding Premiership. Euro-<br/>
pean Government have agreed to hold in-<br/>
ternational Sanitary Commission at Con-<br/>
stantinople to prevent outbreak of Cholera<br/>
in the East. Confederate Vice President<br/>
Stephens pardoned. Bank Discount 7 per<br/>
cent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 24th Oct—Gold fair Tinne-<br/>
velly 20d. Palmerston to be buried in<br/>
Westminster Abbey. Earl Russell Prime<br/>
Minister.—Lord Clarendon Sec. for Foreign<br/>
Affairs. Gladstone lender in House Com-<br/>
mons. President Johnston hints at par-<br/>
doning Davis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 24th Oct.—Palmerston died<br/>
on the eighteenth. Telegraphed to Madras<br/>
Government. Earl Russell, Prime Minister.<br/>
Lord Clarendon Foreign Secretary. Glad-<br/>
stone Speaker of House of Commons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 27th Oct.—Dhollera 18d.. Con-<br/>
siderable business, stock 363,000 bales.<br/>
Manchester little doing. Shirting 15s.<br/>
Mule twist 2s. 1¼d. Copper manufactures<br/>
advanced five pounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 27th Oct.—Martial Law ceased<br/>
in Kentucky. Johnston mine, the proba-<br/>
bility of Davis pardon. Gladiateur won<br/>
the Newmarket Cambridgeshire stakes—-<br/>
Duke Second.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 27th Oct.—Large number peo-<br/>
ple at Lord Palmerston's funeral to-day in<br/>
Westminster Abbey. Pall borne by Ten<br/>
Members of the Cabinet. French Troops<br/>
preparing to leave Rome, Dhollera 18s. ¼d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 4th Nov.— Via Calcutta. Dhol-<br/>
lera 17½s
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_10_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
REPUDIATION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Neath a ragged palmetto, a Southerner sat,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A-twisting the band of his Panama hat,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And trying to lighten his mind of a load,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By humming the words of the following ode:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Oh! for a nigger! and oh! for a whip;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh! for a cokctail! and oh! for a nip;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh! for a shot at old Greeley and Beecher!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh! for a crack at a Yankee school-teacher!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh! for a captain! and oh! for a ship;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh! for a cargo of niggers each trip!"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And so he kept on, as he all had not,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Not contented with owing for all that he'd got.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
—N. Y. Tribune, June 17.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_10_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Weight of People.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the average weight of a man?<br/>
At what age does he attain his greatest<br/>
weight? How much heavier are men than<br/>
women? What would be the weights of<br/>
fat people—and what of very fat people?<br/>
M. Quetelet, of Brussels, some years ago<br/>
deemed such questions quite within the<br/>
scope of his extensive series of researches<br/>
on man. He got hold of every body<br/>
he could, everywhere, and weighed them<br/>
all. He weighed the babies, he weighed<br/>
the boys and girls, he weighed the youths<br/>
and maidens, he weighed men and women.<br/>
he weighed collegians, soldiers, factory<br/>
people pensioners—-and as he had no<br/>
particular [...] to disturb his facts, he<br/>
honestly set down such results as he<br/>
met with. All the infants in the Found-<br/>
ling Hospital at Brussels for a considerable<br/>
period were weighed, and the results were<br/>
compared with others, obtained at similar<br/>
establishments in Paris and Madrid. The<br/>
average returns show that a citizen of the<br/>
world, on the first day of his appearance<br/>
in public, weighs about six pounds and a<br/>
half—-a boy baby a little more, a girl baby<br/>
a little less. Some very modest babies<br/>
hardly turn the scale with two pounds and<br/>
a half, while other pretentious youngsters<br/>
boast of ten and eleven pounds. M. Quet-<br/>
elet grouped his thousands of people ac-<br/>
cording to age, and found that the young<br/>
men of twenty, averaged 143 pounds each,<br/>
while the young women of twenty have<br/>
an average of 120 pounds. His men<br/>
reached their heaviest bulk at about thirty-<br/>
five, when their average weight was 132<br/>
pounds; but the women slowly flattened on<br/>
until fifty, when their average was 129<br/>
pounds.  Men and women together, the<br/>
weight at full growth averaged almost<br/>
exactly 149 pounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_10_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Our ever welcome friend the Steamer<br/>
Chow Phya arrived in town yesterday,<br/>
being five days from Singapore. We are<br/>
glad to notice the return of Franklin<br/>
Blake Esq. & A. M. Odinan[?] Esq by her.<br/>
Mr. Henry, and Mr. Fisher, were also<br/>
passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
