---
linkTitle: 'January 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - January 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); January 16th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 1
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK MONDAY JANUARY 16TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO.I.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang<br/>
Luang" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok January 16th
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had hoped to be able to have<br/>
the Recorder make its re-appear-<br/>
ance among the citizens of Bang-<br/>
kok at the first of the year, so<br/>
that it might wish them the com-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
pliments, and congratulations of<br/>
the season: but machines to make<br/>
haste are still rare in Siam, and we<br/>
have been obligied to forego that<br/>
pleasure, and be thankful to be able<br/>
to appear half a month later. The<br/>
reference to our re-appearance may<br/>
perhaps need some explanation.<br/>
About twenty years ago there was<br/>
a journal issued from this office, to<br/>
which was given the name of<br/>
Bangkok Recorder. It was wholly<br/>
in the Siamese language, and we<br/>
trust was the means of conveying<br/>
to many of this people much useful<br/>
information.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They were not however yet in<br/>
a condition fully to appreciate such<br/>
an enterprise, and partly on ac-<br/>
count of sickness in the family of<br/>
one of the parties concerned, and<br/>
the increased duties of the other, it<br/>
was discontinued, after a brief, but<br/>
we trust useful existence, of one<br/>
year and three months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The present Journal, although<br/>
in a somewhat different form, we<br/>
think may justly claim to be a con<br/>
tinuation of that one, and conse-<br/>
quently the first newspaper pub-<br/>
lished in Bangkok. Supposing the<br/>
proper time to have come for such<br/>
an event, we now take pleasure in<br/>
offering to the citizens of Bangkok<br/>
and others, this revised edition of<br/>
the Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have not undertaken this,<br/>
with any malicious designs upon<br/>
any similar enterprise, which may<br/>
have started up in the mean time.<br/>
Far from it; we wish all well. One<br/>
newspaper however creates a ne<br/>
cessity for another. Of all mono-<br/>
polies, that of newspapers is the<br/>
worst. Whether there was a ne-<br/>
cessity for a  paper here at all at<br/>
present, of course is not for us to<br/>
say; but the existence of one,<br/>
implies the necessity for another.<br/>
There are always two sides to any<br/>
question, and it is well to hear<br/>
both.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Things have changed materially<br/>
in Siam since the Recorder made<br/>
its first appearance. The late king<br/>
had decided upon an exclusive<br/>
policy. Supposing himself to be<br/>
the greatest monarch of the day,<br/>
he was disposed to have but little<br/>
to do with those whom he conid-<br/>
ered his inferiors. No one was<br/>
permitted to see him, unless by<br/>
accident. Not seeming to know<br/>
the old proverb that, "A cat may<br/>
look at a king," when he made his<br/>
annual visits to the Wats, foreigners<br/>
were forced by his officers into<br/>
their houses, and the doors shut,<br/>
and they were obliged to look<br/>
through the bars like the inmates<br/>
of some menagery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Prince more friendly disposed<br/>
to foreigners, has since ascended<br/>
the throne, and those foolish re-<br/>
strictions have in a great measure<br/>
been removed. Commercial treat-<br/>
ies have been negotiated with the<br/>
principle Western powers, so that<br/>
even here "Japheth dwells in the<br/>
tent of Shem" in security.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The western arts and sciences<br/>
have also been introduced to some<br/>
extent, so that when we hear the<br/>
snort of the engine, or the shriek<br/>
of the whistle, we almost forget<br/>
the surroundings and imagine our-<br/>
selves for a time in the western<br/>
world. After all that has been<br/>
written, however, about this coun-<br/>
try, it is astonishing how little is<br/>
known concerning it abroad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were amused not long since<br/>
in reading the following in the<br/>
Youths Department of the New<br/>
York Observer, a paper as ably<br/>
conducted and having as large a<br/>
circulation as any in the United<br/>
States. "In Siam, a Kingdom in<br/>
Asia, lying is punished by having<br/>
the mouth sewed up." During a<br/>
season like the present when rice<br/>
is scarce and dear, such a punish-<br/>
ment might be in some degree<br/>
beneficial, for in such an event,<br/>
the home consumption of the great<br/>
staple of the country would soon<br/>
materially decrease. We suppose<br/>
there is scarcely any other place<br/>
to be found where lying is so nearly<br/>
systemetized as here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Western editors however are<br/>
dependent. upon such information<br/>
as they can get concerning Orien-<br/>
tal countries, and we have men-<br/>
tioned in another column some of<br/>
the sources of information con-<br/>
cerning Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This kingdom has resources un-<br/>
surpassed by any of its size in the<br/>
world. It devolves upon us then,<br/>
who have taken up our residence<br/>
here for a time, to inform the<br/>
world at large what there really is<br/>
in Siam, and to assist in developing<br/>
her resources. This is not done by<br/>
commercial enterprise alone,—the<br/>
mere buying the commodities they<br/>
have for sale, and in giving them<br/>
others in exchange,—although this<br/>
is a step in the right direction.<br/>
They have had a little taste of<br/>
western civilization, and that<br/>
should be so managed as to give<br/>
them a thirst for more. We must<br/>
be careful not to flatter the vanity<br/>
of those in power which is already<br/>
praised to quite too high a pitch.<br/>
We must arouse them from their<br/>
lethargy, and stimulate them to<br/>
habits of industry. We must dis-<br/>
seminate among them the germs<br/>
of true civilization, and give them<br/>
an impulse upon the true road of<br/>
progress. We must bring out the<br/>
productive power of the country.<br/>
This is not the work of a day, but<br/>
perhaps of centuries. Europe has<br/>
been over eighteen centuries in<br/>
reaching her present high state of<br/>
civilization. In this great work<br/>
the press must occupy a preemi-<br/>
nent place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among ourselves too, the press,<br/>
if rightly conducted, may become<br/>
highly beneficial. It acts as a<br/>
monitor in any community. It<br/>
rubs off asperities, and corrects<br/>
errors. It matters not how small<br/>
a community may be, there will<br/>
be occasion for controversy. Of<br/>
course such should not be encour-<br/>
aged; but when it does arise, it<br/>
should be conducted to the best<br/>
advantage. Through the press<br/>
each one can vindicate his own<br/>
cause, and expose the errors of his<br/>
opponent. It should not however<br/>
be abused. Vile vituperations<br/>
should be avoided. Handle an<br/>
opponent sharply if necessary, but<br/>
do it gentlemanly. The English<br/>
language is ample, surpassed by<br/>
none except the French, in delicate<br/>
expression. There is no necessity<br/>
then to descend to vulgarisms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But a truce to this, for the pres-<br/>
ent. We offer the Recorder, to<br/>
the citizens of Bangkok and<br/>
others. We shall try to merit a<br/>
liberal share of patronage. We<br/>
shall try to do justice to all, but<br/>
will flatter none.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF THE BANGKOK
RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR.—Nothing seems more manifest, than<br/>
the duty of the conductors of public Jour-<br/>
nals in such a country as Siam, to do all in<br/>
their power to promote a good understand-<br/>
ing between native and foreign officials.<br/>
They should endeavor to allay rather than<br/>
increase any irritation or misunderstanding<br/>
which may arise in the necessary intercourse <br/>
of these officials. They should doubtless<br/>
be ready to resent on behalf of His Majesty <br/>
and the native officials any manifest and <br/>
intentional rudeness or insult. But on the<br/>
other hand they should be ready to main- <br/>
tain, that true respect may be felt and intend-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ed when for good reasons, there may be<br/>
slight departure from usual courses. And<br/>
from such a departure the native officials<br/>
should neither infer nor charge intentional<br/>
insult, till opportunity is had for mutual<br/>
explanation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These thoughts were suggested by the<br/>
perusal of a communication with the caption<br/>
of "Bangkok Gossip" in the "Siam Times"<br/>
of January 8th. The writer of that article<br/>
insinuates and the Editorial endorsement<br/>
does not discountenance the insinuation,<br/>
that His Majesty the Supreme King of Siam<br/>
has been made the victim of a hoax, in the<br/>
perpetration of which the entire British<br/>
Consular staff, and the Governor General of<br/>
India are implicated. The Editor of the<br/>
"Siam Times" has complimented the<br/>
credulity rather than the intelligence of<br/>
the simple minded community of the<br/>
Kingdom of Siam in venturing the pub-<br/>
lication of such an insinuation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is perhaps too much to expect that<br/>
native officials, who have been long trained<br/>
to place prime importance upon custom and<br/>
mere routine, should be entirely free from<br/>
suspicion of intended insult, when they find<br/>
even a slight departure from usual forms.<br/>
But every intelligent European must see at<br/>
a glance, that the perpetration of such a<br/>
hoax as is insinuated in the "Siam Times"<br/>
is impossible. The publication of such an<br/>
insinuation is, in this instance, the more<br/>
culpable, as an inquiry in the right quarter<br/>
would have put the Editor in possession of<br/>
all the facts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If, for any cause, His Majesty has indulged<br/>
a momentary suspicion that he bas been<br/>
made a victim of a hoax, such that suspi-<br/>
icion is removed by the knowledge of the<br/>
facts: His Majesty will owe no gratitude<br/>
to those who have been the medium of<br/>
publishing each suspicion to the European<br/>
world. It will do His Majesty no credit<br/>
in the courts of Europe, to have indulged<br/>
the thought, even for a moment, that per-<br/>
son of his high character and high position<br/>
of the Governor General of India, could<br/>
either have perpetrated or connived at the<br/>
perpetration of a hoax upon his Majesty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Consular officials specially interested<br/>
in the case, in accordance with their usual<br/>
custom, may not publicly notice the impu-<br/>
tation upon their honor contained in the<br/>
article in question, but the fostering of such<br/>
suspicions by the publication of such articles<br/>
is an injustice not only to them, but to every<br/>
official and private person, who has any<br/>
intercourse with the court of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the "Siam Times" indulges in many<br/>
of the "blunders" which can scarcely be<br/>
called "amusing" the "Siam community"<br/>
must be very "simple minded" and "very<br/>
forbearing" not to "allow it to operate<br/>
prejudicially against the paper" whether it<br/>
be "very rough ragged and crooked" or<br/>
smooth even and straight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
AN UNBELIEVER IN THE HOAX.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_6_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BOOKS ON SIAM
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a certain very old book we read some<br/>
thing like this, "Of making books there is<br/>
no end, and much study is a weakness of<br/>
the flesh", The author of these words had<br/>
a high reputation for wisdom in his day,<br/>
but we can scarcely be persuaded that he<br/>
relied wholly upon his own wisdom, when<br/>
he uttered the words already quoted. He<br/>
must certainly have had a glimpse into the<br/>
future, and his words must in some degree,<br/>
look forward to the present for their fulfil-<br/>
ment. The present is emphatically an age<br/>
of book making. There are those who fol-<br/>
low it as a business, and "companies and<br/>
land" for matter to fill up their almost<br/>
countless pages. There are also a set of<br/>
abold adventurers, whose highest amition<br/>
appears to be to ascend some broad river,<br/>
or penetrate into some great forest, hitherto<br/>
untrodden by the foot of white man ; then<br/>
inspired by their imaginations, they astonish<br/>
the world with an account of their discov-<br/>
eries. Such works Robert Barns seems to<br/>
have described very correctly though per-<br/>
haps unintentionally when he said, —
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Some books are lies frae end to end",<br/>
It is greatly to be regretted that most books<br/>
upon Oriental comitries have been written<br/>
by such adventurers, or at best by mere<br/>
cutvory travelers, who know nothing of the<br/>
language of the countries through which <br/>
they passed, and gave credunce and public-<br/>
ity to all the aboard stories which met their<br/>
ears, Siam has not been wholly exempt<br/>
from such inenrsions, From very early ad-<br/>
ventures in Siam we have but little, if any<br/>
thing, that is at all rellabhb, In 1841 Mr.<br/>
Crawford was sent by the Governor General<br/>
of India, on a friendly mission to the courts<br/>
of Siam, and Cochin Chine. His mission<br/>
was a failure; but considering the small<br/>
facilities then offered during his short stay<br/>
here, he acquired nach information concern-<br/>
ing the country, and his journal, though<br/>
necessarily brief is perhaps as free from<br/>
crror as any thing we have on Siam,even yet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next thing we have in the shape of a <br/>
book is entitled a "Residence in Siam,"<br/>
by Fredric Arthur Neale. Who Fredric<br/>
Arthur Neale was, it would now probably<br/>
be dificult to find out ; nor would even<br/>
success pay the expenses of an effort. From<br/>
the title page of his book we learn, that he<br/>
is also the author of "Eight Years in Syria,<br/>
Palestine, and Asia Minor." How long a<br/>
residence ho lind in Siam we do not know;<br/>
but judging from his book, we think it<br/>
could not, at furthest, have exceeded three<br/>
months. He givos place to the wildest ex-<br/>
aggerations, and his highest aim appears<br/>
to have been to produce a readable book,<br/>
regardless of truth. During his stay here,<br/>
according to his own story, he was General-<br/>
in-chief of his late Majesty's forces, and<br/>
High Admiral of his Navy; and was ever<br/>
active in chasing some notorious pirate in<br/>
the Gulf, or quelling some incipient rebel-<br/>
lion, upon land. His sketches too are the<br/>
merest cariatures imaginable, and many of<br/>
them quite foreign to Siam. Occasionally,<br/>
too, he indulges in a right well directed<br/>
shot at the American Missionaries, for whom<br/>
he appears to have entertained a peculiar<br/>
antipathy. This one thing however, he<br/>
brings out pretty fully; but perhaps rather<br/>
unintentionally, that is, that during his<br/>
residence here, he was a loafer upon their<br/>
hospitality, and perhaps the purse of the<br/>
late Mr. Hunter. He has however rather<br/>
a sprightly style, and excepting, where he<br/>
occasionally descends almost in the vulgar,<br/>
his book is, not withstanding his exaggera-<br/>
tions, upon the whole a readable one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir John Bowring after negotiating, in<br/>
1855, a friendly treaty between H. B. M.<br/>
Government, and the Kings of Siam, had<br/>
also the ambition to make a book. He<br/>
however proves to be one of the driest of all<br/>
book writers, usually denominated com-<br/>
pilers. He seems to have possessed to<br/>
perfection, the somewhat rare faculty, of<br/>
pumping to exhaustion all those with whom<br/>
he came in contact, and then of turning<br/>
the information, thus acquired, to his own<br/>
account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The journals of early adventurers, the<br/>
annals of the Propaganda, the Chinese<br/>
Repository, the Missionary Magazine and<br/>
Bishop Pallegoix's book have all been ran<br/>
sacked by him, and extracts from these,<br/>
together with all the information pumped<br/>
from the Missionaries and others, and even<br/>
His Majesty himself, are all conglomerated<br/>
in one mass, of two octavo volumes, of about<br/>
nine hundred pages, without correction, and<br/>
poorly arranged. His book possesses all<br/>
errors atleast without even half the spright-<br/>
liness of Neale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Occasionally however we find a few, who<br/>
actuated by true love of science, and a<br/>
desire to promote the interests, leave home,<br/>
family, and friends, and risk, and sacrifice<br/>
their lives in their cause. Among such I<br/>
think we may justly classs the late M. Henri<br/>
Mouhot. He was indefatigable, undaunted<br/>
by wild beasts, and sometimes wilder men, or<br/>
even jungle fever. He traversed the moun-<br/>
tainous regions around Prabat, Patawee,<br/>
and Chantaboon ; and thence to Cambodia,<br/>
where, despite all the enreaties of the<br/>
Catholic priests, and the natives, he pen-<br/>
etrates to the heart of their country, and<br/>
spends three months among the savage<br/>
Stiena. He thence makes his way to the<br/>
great ruins of Ougear, of which he gives<br/>
an excellent description. Returning to<br/>
Bangkok, he again sets out, crosses the<br/>
great jungle, Dong Phya Fai to Korat and<br/>
Luang Prabang where he falls a victim to<br/>
fever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The journal of M. Mouhot, edited by his<br/>
brother, has lately reached us. It was<br/>
written by him, oftentimes,, under the most<br/>
averse circumstances, frequently by the<br/>
light of a torch, after having been detained<br/>
all day by the pitiless rain, and enduring<br/>
the "galling fire" of an army of musketoes.<br/>
It is written in a clear and simple style,<br/>
and shows that he have been a close and<br/>
correct observer of all passing around him.<br/>
Where he trusts to his own observation he<br/>
is correct, but where he gives credence to<br/>
others, he falls into the errors of his pre-<br/>
decessors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When he occasionally refers to the po-<br/>
litical bearings of the countries through<br/>
which he passed, he of course takes a French<br/>
stand point, but this is nothing more than<br/>
we would expect from a thorough French-<br/>
man. The really scientific part of M.<br/>
Mouhot’s book we have not examined; but<br/>
we take it for granted that it is correct,<br/>
as he no doubt was eminently qualified by<br/>
scientific attainments for the great task<br/>
which he willingly undertook
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. Mouhot also possessed very high social<br/>
qualifications, which endeared him to all with<br/>
whom he came in contact. Some of his<br/>
articles are imperfectly correct, but had<br/>
he been allowed to edit his own work, he<br/>
would no doubt have corrected them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His statement concerning the missionary<br/>
operations here is erroneous; but this we<br/>
suppose is one of the instances in which he<br/>
relied upon the information of others. We<br/>
still believe that had he, in the providence<br/>
of God, been permitted to edit his own<br/>
journal, he would have taken pains to in-<br/>
form himself more correctly upon the sub-<br/>
ject. Science is indebted to M. Mouhot<br/>
for several new specimens, and he may<br/>
justly be ranked among her martyrs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following letter to the Daily News<br/>
from Prof. Goldwin Smith of Oxford, will<br/>
doubtless be read with interest. He has<br/>
been on a visit to the United States, and<br/>
this letter contains what we consider the<br/>
true state of affairs there. So far as we<br/>
know, it has not been generally read by<br/>
the citizens of Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF THE DAILY NEWS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,—I see our Southern journals are<br/>
leading their readers to believe that the<br/>
struggle for the restoration of the Union is<br/>
about to be abandoned from the exhaus-<br/>
tion of the North. The month which I<br/>
have just passed in the Northern and West-<br/>
ern States, has led me to an opposite con-<br/>
clusion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is exhaustion, of course, as there<br/>
is towards the close of every long battle day.<br/>
At Illinois, towards evening, both armies<br/>
were at the last gasp, yet the Swedes were<br/>
able to make the supreme effort which gave<br/>
them victory. The government has got<br/>
more men than Grant called for, by volun-<br/>
teering, and in the districts where volun-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tearing was slack the draft is going on<br/>
without resistance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chicago Convention, it is true, was<br/>
not only pacific but secessionist. But Mc<br/>
Clellan, the nominee of that convention;<br/>
kicks over its platform and declares re-<br/>
peatedly and emphatically in his letter of<br/>
acceptance that the Union must be restored<br/>
at all hazards. The only question on which<br/>
he is prepared to give way to the South is<br/>
that of slavery. The mass of the party, who<br/>
support him are War Democrats ; and they<br/>
are for war, not as name only but in deed.<br/>
They have therefore no base on the Repub-<br/>
licans, though they do not, like the Republi-<br/>
cans, make the abolition of slavery pre-<br/>
sent or prospective, as well as the restorstion<br/>
of the Union, a condition of peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The democratic party is out, and not<br/>
being accustomed to be out, it wants very<br/>
much to be in. Thus I believe, in as much<br/>
as anything else, the Key to the present<br/>
attempt to oust the Republican government.<br/>
If the Conservatives had ousted the Palmer-<br/>
ston government the other day, there would have<br/>
been no material change in our policy<br/>
towards Denmark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the best judgments, how-<br/>
ever, which I can gather, McClellan as<br/>
matters now stands, has no chance of elec-<br/>
tion. At least, all the enemies of America<br/>
in Europe, who are shouting in the prospect<br/>
of his triumph, had better adjourn their<br/>
exultation till their victory is won. I see<br/>
they were a little premature in letting off<br/>
their fireworks in honor of the victory of<br/>
Hood before Atlanta.<br/>
    That the war is national, not carried on<br/>
by the government alone, nobody which<br/>
has been in the country a day can doubt.<br/>
Every sign of popular participation is<br/>
around you :— soldiers' rests, and soldier's<br/>
homes, supported by voluntary contribu-<br/>
tions and attended by voluntary nurses;<br/>
immense subscriptions to the Sanitary Com-<br/>
mission and every benevolent object con-<br/>
nected with the war. It is remarkable<br/>
that, though the subscriptions are so large,<br/>
the names of the subscribers are not pub-<br/>
lished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Anxiety is expressed, of course, on all<br/>
hands as to the financial prospects of the<br/>
country. But the present burden of tax-<br/>
ation, including a heavy income-tax, is so<br/>
far as I can see, cheerfullliy borne, even by<br/>
those who must feel it most.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have not heard a single sentiment of<br/>
atrocity, or even of hatred, uttered against<br/>
the South. But I have heard on all sides the<br/>
expression of a resolve determination to<br/>
make the South submit to the law. And this<br/>
determination I believe rules the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let the South submit to the law, and<br/>
there is no thought of amnesty and res-<br/>
toration. Nor does it seem to me irrational<br/>
to expect that, when the ambitious leaders<br/>
of the revolt are out of the way, the depen-<br/>
dents whom they have dragged into the<br/>
field will soon settle down again into quiet<br/>
members of the Union.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am confirmed in the belief that this war,<br/>
as compared with previous civil wars, is<br/>
being carried on with great humanity on<br/>
the part of the North. I visited, the other<br/>
day, a large encampment of Confederate<br/>
prisoners at Chicago. These men seemed<br/>
to me to be as well treated and as cheerful<br/>
as prisoners could be; and this, be it ob-<br/>
served, at a time when the North is ringing<br/>
with the accounts of the atrocities undergone<br/>
by Northern prisoners at the hands of the<br/>
Confederates. The same visit convinced<br/>
me that the Confederate conscription has<br/>
pretty nearly well exhausted the Southern<br/>
population, for I saw among the prisoners<br/>
the merest boys.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The growth of popular sentiment on the<br/>
subject of negro slavery is gratifying. By<br/>
the law of Illinois, negroes are still excluded<br/>
from the State; but this law has become<br/>
a dead letter. I saw negroes at church with<br/>
the whites, and I observed that they stayed<br/>
for the communion. Illinois farmers tell<br/>
me that the negro make a good day labourer.<br/>
Soldiers—not political generals, but com-<br/>
pany officers and privates—tell me that he<br/>
makes an excellent soldier. The plantor can<br/>
no longer talk of the inherent inferiority of<br/>
a race, which proves itself a match for his<br/>
own race in the field.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have seen no signs of diminished pros-<br/>
perity, except in the empty docks of New<br/>
York, which tell the tale of the Alabama.<br/>
On the contrary, trade seems marvellously<br/>
active, and buildings are rising on all sides.<br/>
The commercial prosperity may be partly<br/>
artificial, arising out of the expenditure caus-<br/>
ed by the war. But the agricultural pros-<br/>
perity is more real. Illinois has sent, ac-<br/>
cording to the government returns, 170,000<br/>
men—a fifth part of its labouring popula-<br/>
tion—to the war. Yet the harvest is greater<br/>
than in any former year. Its gross value is<br/>
supposed to be four hundred millions of<br/>
dollars, no inconsiderable part of the national<br/>
debt. The invention of machines, which the<br/>
dearness of labor has stimulated, has made<br/>
up for the loss of laborers. The State Fair<br/>
the other day was attended by 20,000<br/>
people. The show of implements was ex-<br/>
traordinary, and the highest prices were<br/>
given for stock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I heard from the lips of a Secessionist, a<br/>
description of the enthusiasm with which<br/>
those inhabitants of Illinois had rushed<br/>
to arms when the first gun was fired<br/>
against a Federal fortress, by the South.<br/>
I passed villages which had sent forth a<br/>
fourth of them to combat at Fort Don-<br/>
elson, Twenty-four fell, and their bodies<br/>
were carefully brough back to their village<br/>
and buried in their home. These men of<br/>
course were "mercenaries" and "Irish."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have been in the States only a month,<br/>
and perhaps I am not an unbiased ob-<br/>
server, but my strong conviction is, that<br/>
beneath the frothy surface of party politics<br/>
(never very august in any country) and the<br/>
shoddy luxury of New York, lies a great<br/>
nation, meeting the extremity of peril with<br/>
courage. self devotion, passionate attach-<br/>
ment to its country, and unshaken confi-<br/>
dence in its own power. I am no judge of<br/>
military matters, but at present it seems<br/>
as though the insults and slanders which<br/>
have been passed on the American-born<br/>
the aristocratic and reactionary press of<br/>
Europe, were about to be answered by vic-<br/>
tory.–-I am, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
GOLDWIN SMITH.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TO THE EDITOR OF THE
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DEAR SIR :—A few hints from the outside<br/>
observer, as to the mode of conducting your<br/>
paper may not be unacceptable. First of<br/>
all, you must carefully repress any feeling<br/>
of modest diffidence, which may naturally<br/>
arise upon entering on a new and untried<br/>
vocation. Encourage high expectations of<br/>
a brilliant success, and be daily impressed<br/>
with the dignity of your position, and the<br/>
importance of your undertaking. Assume<br/>
that the advent of the Recorder is not only<br/>
"the crowning event of the year,” but “as<br/>
far as Siam is concerned the most important<br/>
in its history." Some indeed may say that<br/>
the introduction of the press itself, and the<br/>
printing of books, and especially the New<br/>
Testament in the vernacular were more im-<br/>
portant events than the publication in Eng-<br/>
lish of your modest sheet. But, serene in<br/>
your own conscious superiority, you should<br/>
disregard such remarks, considering them<br/>
only as proofs of the hostility of malevo-<br/>
lent individuals” who are incapable of ap-<br/>
preciating the transcendent importance of<br/>
your labors. Are you not a sovereign, reign-<br/>
ing supreme in the “ fourth estate?” Your<br/>
sceptre may be only a goose quill, and your<br/>
throne a deal wood tripod; but the latter is<br/>
a little higher than the royal seat, and the<br/>
former mightier than the kingly baton. You<br/>
should therefore "immediately assume"<br/>
your true position as the "appellate court,"<br/>
"the advisors or arbitrators between the<br/>
governing and the governed." A royal<br/>
progress is usually heralded by a trumpet;<br/>
so you too mast learn to blow lustily your<br/>
own brazen trumpet. Silver notes might<br/>
he more melodious in a quiet circle of<br/>
friends, but will not answer your purpose.<br/>
If you should become weary, hand the in-<br/>
strument to a friend at your elbow, who<br/>
you know will give it a certain sound. I<br/>
do not doubt your eminent ability to suc-<br/>
cessfully conduct your enterprise, but if you<br/>
could find a friend to embark with you,<br/>
who from pure benevolence, would be con-<br/>
tent to take the helm, and guide your craft,<br/>
and even in an emergency take the laboring<br/>
oar, it might prove of great service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to the literary part of your labors it<br/>
will not pay (and to make it pay is of<br/>
course your object) to be too particular.<br/>
You will of course have to take your corres-<br/>
pondents as you find them, but even in<br/>
writing your leading articles, it may be well<br/>
to remember that you are not in the<br/>
Queen’s dominions and that in this juris-<br/>
diction there is no penalty for murdering<br/>
the Queen’s English. I would advise that<br/>
you studiously aim at what I will call a<br/>
superlative style. Your copper pence must<br/>
all be golden guineas, you geese all swans,<br/>
your crows all eagles. —Your stars must<br/>
not only be of the  "first magnitude" but<br/>
the "most brilliant" of their class. Your<br/>
success, if you are so fortunate as to have<br/>
any, must not only be reasonably good, but<br/>
"greed" and "without a parallel in the his-<br/>
tory of the fourth states.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If you have occasion to notice individu-<br/>
als, your articles should always be well<br/>
seasoned with flattery ; such dishes are sure<br/>
to tickle the palate; and the thrilling sen-<br/>
sation may extend through the fingers to<br/>
the purse. Your readers will expect you to<br/>
court the mises for their benefit, and give<br/>
them now an then a little original poetry.<br/>
You may complain that there is no Parnas-<br/>
sus in your field of vision, and that the<br/>
muddy waters of Klawn Bang Luang, do<br/>
not flow from the pure Castalian fount. But<br/>
the Genius of poetry may be, like her sister<br/>
woman, "quite Omnipotent" when by her<br/>
aid you can create your own Parnassus, and<br/>
clarify as clear as those which flow from<br/>
mount Helicon. If, however, the coy god-<br/>
dess should obstinately refuse her aid to<br/>
your solicitations, I will, for yout comfort,<br/>
just whisper in your ear that you may<br/>
import an article in this the almost equal<br/>
to homemade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If, after all your efforts, your paper will<br/>
not sell, should you not deem the tran-<br/>
sition from the throne to the auction block<br/>
too great, you might hint that you are your-<br/>
self in the market; and if you give the hint<br/>
a sufficiently sharp point, it may prove "a<br/>
word to the wise." You must ever maintain <br/>
a magnanimous learning toward the en-<br/>
tire community. Your every issue may<br/>
furnish evidence that, at whatever cost to<br/>
other interests, you are zealously laboring to<br/>
forward the interests of your particular<br/>
clique. Still with hat in hand, and smile on<br/>
the lips, you must make your best bow to<br/>
the dear public, protesting that you are its<br/>
most humble servant, ready to devote your<br/>
whole energies to its properity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A moderate share of attention to these<br/>
hints, Mr. Editor, cannot fail to bring you<br/>
new enterprise up to the standard of the
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
TIMES.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TELLEGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Already most of our readers have seen the latest<br/>
items, but for the sake of any who may not, we in-<br/>
sert a short summary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM DAILY NEWS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE DANISH RIGSRAAD.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
COPENHAGEN, Nov. 4, 4:54 p.m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first vote had just been taken in the Folkes-<br/>
thing on the treaty of peace. The treaty is approved<br/>
by 73 votes against 25 votes — one member abstaining from<br/>
voting and four others were absent. All the depu-<br/>
ties present from Blenwiglaad, the enclaves ceded by<br/>
the treaty to Germany, voted against the adoption<br/>
of the treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The bill has been sent up to the Landsthing (up-<br/>
per house) of the Rigsraad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PARIS Nov. 4
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The diplomatic convention regulating the [....]<br/>
legislation, was signed yesterday at Paris by the<br/>
representatives of England, France, Spain, Belgium, and<br/>
Holland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE PARIS BOURSE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PARIS Nov. 4, 3:50 P.M.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bourse has been dull. Rentes closed at [...]<br/>
or [...] at one-fourt below yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
NEW AUSTRIAN LOAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
VIENNA, Nov. 4.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A new state loan for 25 million florins, bearing 13<br/>
per cent. interest, was officially announced this<br/>
morning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The issue price is fixed at 97.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ARRIVAL OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
QUEENSTOWN, Nov. 5.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York on the 29th [...]., arrived here at 1:17<br/>
p.m. to-day. She brings 785,140 [...]. in specie,<br/>
the mails, and 166 passengers, 19 of whom landed<br/>
here. She proceeded on her voyage at 1:23 p.m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
( Via Crookhaven. )
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NEW-YORK, Oct. 31, Evening.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Grant has resumed his old position.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hood has attacked Decatur, but was repulsed and<br/>
crossed the Tennessee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rumors are current that Sherman has evacuated<br/>
Atlanta.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that the Confederates will arm<br/>
30,000 negroes for the spring campaign.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The New York and Kentucky state authorities<br/>
have forbidden military interference with the voting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COMMERCIAL INTELLIGENCE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
NEW YORK Oct. 31: Evening.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gold 127 per cent. premium. Exchange on Lon-<br/>
don, 247. Stock advancing ; New York Centrals,<br/>
[...] ; Illinois, 139; Erie, 29; 5+20 Bonds, [...]<br/>
Middling Upand, 125. Breadstufts advancing,. Pet-<br/>
troleum ; crude, 49 ; refined, 66.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NEW YORK, Nov. 1 Morning.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report of Sherman's evacuation of Atlanta<br/>
has been denied. Forrest is threatening Paducah<br/>
and Columbus,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gold is excited, and is now quoted 187⅞ per cent.<br/>
premium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LIVERPOOL, Nov. 5.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Private telegrams are said to have been received<br/>
here by the City of Washington reporting the total<br/>
defeat of General Butler with heavy loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the same report General Grant's<br/>
repulse was much more serious than was at first<br/>
represented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ODDS AND ENDS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Hear, land o' cakes, and brither Scots,<br/>
Frae Maidenkirk to Johnny Groats’<br/>
If there’s a hole in a' your coats,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I rede ye tent it:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A thief’s amang you taking notes,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
And, faith, he’ll prent it.”
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A preacher's word should be law only<br/>
when it is gospel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Voltaire used to say, the heart never grew<br/>
old, but that it became sad, because it was<br/>
lodged in a ruin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
True Philosophy.— A country poet,<br/>
after looking about over life, has come to<br/>
the following rhyming conclusion:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! I wouldn't live forever—I wouldn't<br/>
if I could ; But I needn't fret about it, for I<br/>
couldn't if I would."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sermon and Sermon.— A clergyman in<br/>
Perthshire, who is more skilful as an angler<br/>
than popular as a preacher, having fallen into<br/>
conversation with some of his parishioners<br/>
on the subject, of early rising, mentioned<br/>
one instance that he had that very morning,<br/>
before breakfast, composed a sermon and<br/>
killed a salmon - an achievement on which<br/>
he plumed himself greatly. "A weel, sir,"<br/>
observed one of the company, "I would<br/>
rather hae yer salmon, than yer sermon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How a "Copperhead" was Shaved—<br/>
The Philadelphia North American tells the<br/>
following story:—A well-known frequenter<br/>
of Third street, stopped yesterday in a<br/>
barber shop, close to the North American<br/>
building. sat in a shaving chair, drew a<br/>
newspaper from his pocket, and instructed<br/>
the knight of the razor to take off his beard.<br/>
The barber was an African. He simply<br/>
replied "Yes, boss," and produced his im-<br/>
plements. The customer sat down. He<br/>
was duly shaved. His face was wiped, and<br/>
and he arose, donned his coat and hat. "How<br/>
much?" he asked, in a dolorous voice, as<br/>
he adjusted his shirt collar. "Fifteen cents<br/>
boas" "Why, I thought you shaved for ten<br/>
cents at this shop." "Dat an's de average,<br/>
aah,"was the reply. "Ten cents is de price<br/>
ob a shave in dis yer shop. You come in<br/>
here, aah, and read de news ob Sheridian's<br/>
victory, and your face got bent six inches<br/>
longer dan when you came in. If your face<br/>
was like it was afore you read dat yar news,<br/>
ten cents, was the price. When you com-<br/>
menced to read bout de defeat ob Early,<br/>
den your face stretched down about four<br/>
inches. Dat's what makes it wurf fifteen<br/>
cents for dat shave." The customer couldn't<br/>
couldn't restrain a grin, though he was a Copper-<br/>
head, and the hit at him was made by a<br/>
"nigger." He laid down the fee, and walked<br/>
out. He was one of those gentlemen who<br/>
go their length upon McClellan, and who of<br/>
course shudder at every victory to the<br/>
Union arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
S. A. CHUNE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Auctioneer, Ship Chandler and 
General Commission Agent. 
ESTABLISHED AUGUST 1st, 1850.
Situated a little below the French
Consulate, on the opposite
bank of the river.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA  DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
   All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.<br/>
   A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.<br/>
   There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.<br/>
   The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.<br/>
   Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 1st TO 15th JANUARY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>Cases</td>
 <td>of</td>
 <td>Assault and battery.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Breach of the peace (fighting.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>4</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Stealing a boat.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Burglary.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>4</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fraud.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Attempt to stab.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Trespass.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Falsely charging another with</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">intent to kill</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_10_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE SAVAGE SITES,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM THE JOURNAL OF
M. HENRI MOUHOT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I resided nearly three months among the<br/>
Savage Stiens. le this too short a period<br/>
to enable me to form an opinion of them I<br/>
One would think so, on hearing Father<br/>
Guillout repeat often that although he has<br/>
lived here two years, he is yet far from<br/>
knowing all their superstitions and Devilries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are surrounded by forests, which are<br/>
infested with elephants, buffalos, rhin-<br/>
ceroa, tigers, and wild boars, and the ground<br/>
all about this pool is covered with their<br/>
foot prints. We live almost as in a besieged<br/>
place, every moment dreading some attack<br/>
of the enemy, and keeping our guns con-<br/>
stantly loaded. Sometimes they come close<br/>
to our quarters, and we cannot go even a<br/>
few steps into the woods without hearing<br/>
them. As general rule, however, they<br/>
fly from the approach of man, and in order<br/>
to get a shot, it is necessary to lie in wait<br/>
either amongst the branches of a tree, or<br/>
hidden among the brushwood, near the<br/>
spots where they come to drink.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scorpions, centipedes, and abort all ser-<br/>
nents were the enemies we most dreaded,<br/>
and against which precautions were chiefly<br/>
requisite, but the mosquitoes and the leech-<br/>
es, though less dangerous, were the most<br/>
troublesome and the most inveterate plagues.<br/>
During the rainy season you cannot be too<br/>
much on your guard ; going to bed or get-<br/>
ting up, you are over in peril of putting a<br/>
hand or foot on some venomous snake. I<br/>
have killed more than one in my house with<br/>
a gun or hatchet. As I write, I am obliged<br/>
to be continually on the watch, fearing to<br/>
see one re-appear on which I trod this even-<br/>
ing, but which made its exit without hurt-<br/>
ing me. From time to time, also, I stop<br/>
to listen to the roaring of a tigers, when he<br/>
wanders round our dwelling and look<br/>
more longingly at the pigs through their fence<br/>
of planks and bamboos. Again, I hear a<br/>
rhinoceros breaking down the bamboos<br/>
which opposes his progress towards the bram-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
bles encircling our garden; on which he in-<br/>
tends to banquet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The savage tribes, who inhabit this reg-<br/>
ion, have probably the sme origin as those<br/>
who people the mountains and the table-<br/>
land, which separate the Itngdoms of Laos<br/>
and Cambodia from that of Annam, and<br/>
which extend across the great stride from 11°<br/>
north lat, and between 100° and 108° east<br/>
longitude. They form so many separate com-<br/>
munities as there are villages, and it seems to<br/>
be a race distinct from all the people who<br/>
surround them. I am merely inclined to<br/>
believe them to be the aboriginees of the<br/>
country, and to suppose that they have<br/>
been driven back from the Sea and the<br/>
rivers to the districts now occupied by them,<br/>
by the successive invations of the Taibetans,<br/>
who have have spread themselves over Laos,<br/>
Siam, and Cambodia, and nothing that I<br/>
can discover leads to ay other supposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These savages are so strongly attached to<br/>
their forests and mountains, that to quit<br/>
them seems almost like death, and those<br/>
who are dragged as slaves to the neighbor-<br/>
ing countries, languish under captivity, and<br/>
try every methods of escape, frequently wtih<br/>
success. Like other savages, they have ap-<br/>
peared formidable to their neighbors, and<br/>
the fear inspired by them has occasioned<br/>
exaggerated reports of their wonderful skill<br/>
in shooting with the bow, as well as the<br/>
pestilential climate. However, it is a fact<br/>
that fever prevails here terribly; numbers<br/>
of Annamites, and Cambodians, have fallen<br/>
victims to it, and I am assured that I am<br/>
the only stranger who has come without<br/>
suffering from it more or less. These people<br/>
love the deep shade of the pathless woods,<br/>
which they do not trouble themselves to cut<br/>
down, and if they cling to their country,<br/>
they do not to any particular locality, for<br/>
if they meet with any inconvenience in their<br/>
own neighborhood, or if any of their family<br/>
die of fever, they raise their camp, take their<br/>
children in baskets on their backs, and set off<br/>
to make a settlement elsewhere, land is not<br/>
wanting, and the forest is everywhere alike.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These tribes are nearly independent, al-<br/>
though the Cambodians on one side, and<br/>
the Laotians and Annamites on the other,<br/>
levy on the villages near them a triennial<br/>
tribute of rice and wax. The King of Cam-<br/>
bodia does not want the will to treat the<br/>
Steins as he did the Thiamwa, in order to<br/>
people some of his desert provinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inscription placed—alas so vainly—<br/>
on our public offices is here, notwithstand-<br/>
ing the slavery, the motto of the people, and<br/>
its sincerity is evidenced in their practice.<br/>
We use words ; they act. If there is abun-<br/>
dance at one house, the whole village shares<br/>
in it, and when scarcity prevails, which is<br/>
often the case, all alike suffer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They work admirably in iron and ivory,<br/>
and some tribes are noted, as in Annam,<br/>
for their hatchets and the beautiful work-<br/>
manship of their sabres. Their drinking-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
vessels are rude, but of their own manufac-<br/>
ture, and the women weave and dye the<br/>
long fine scarves which they wear, the best<br/>
of which are often valued at the price of an<br/>
ox. They cultivate rice, maize, tobacco,<br/>
various kinds of vegetables and fruit trees,<br/>
such as bananas, mangoes, and oranges.<br/>
Every person of any substance possesses<br/>
several slaves, and a field, always at some dis-<br/>
tance from the village, which is very careful-<br/>
ly attended to. In these fields in little huts<br/>
raised on piles, the Stiens pass the whole<br/>
of the rainy season, during which they can<br/>
neither hunt nor fish, both on account of<br/>
the inclement weather and the leeches, the<br/>
immense numbers of which, as in the forests<br/>
of Siam, make them a perfect pest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their manner of preparing a rice-field is<br/>
very different from the way in which our<br/>
agriculturists set about matters. As soon<br/>
as the first rains begin to fall, the Stien<br/>
chooses his ground, and busies himself in<br/>
clearing it. This would be a laborious task<br/>
for a European; but he, with his hatchet<br/>
with cane handle, has in a few days cut<br/>
down a thicket of bamboos 100 or 150<br/>
metres square. If he meets with any tree<br/>
too large for him to manage, he leaves it<br/>
standing. After a few days, when the canes<br/>
are a little dry, he sets fire to them, and<br/>
the field is soon cleared. As for the roots,<br/>
he cares little about them, as no digging is<br/>
required; on the virgin soil everything<br/>
grows with little labour. There only remains<br/>
to sow the seed, and for this purpose he<br/>
takes two long bamboos, which he lays in<br/>
a line on the ground; then, with a stick in<br/>
each hand, he makes on each side of this<br/>
line, holes about an inch or an inch and a<br/>
half deep at short distances. The men’s<br/>
work is now finished, and that of the women<br/>
begins. stooping down, she follows the line<br/>
traced made by her husband, and from a basket<br/>
carried over her left side takes a handful of<br/>
rice, of which she throws a few grains into<br/>
each hole with great rapidity, and at the<br/>
same time so dexterously that it is very far<br/>
any to fall outside. In a few hours the<br/>
task is finished, for here there is no need<br/>
of harrow or plough; kind Nature will soon<br/>
send some violent showers, which, washing<br/>
the soil over the holes, will cover the seeds.<br/>
Then the proprietor establishes himself in<br/>
his hut, where, as he smokes his cigarette<br/>
(made of tobacco rolled in some leaf), he<br/>
lets fly his arrows at the wild boars, apes,<br/>
or goats, or amuses himself by frightening<br/>
away the doves and parroquets. To this<br/>
end, a couple of bamboos are so placed in<br/>
the middle of the field, that by pulling a<br/>
handful of rattan, they continually strike<br/>
against each other, and the noise scares<br/>
away the birds, which without some such<br/>
contrivance would cat up all the seed. The<br/>
harvest is reaped at the end of October.<br/>
Generally, two months previously poverty<br/>
and famine begin to make themselves felt.<br/>
As long as provisions last they feast without<br/>
ever thinking of the morrow; when they<br/>
are exhausted they are reduced to eat ser-<br/>
pents, toads, and bats, which last are found<br/>
in great numbers in the hollows of the old<br/>
bamboo. Often they have even to content<br/>
themselves with the roots of the maize,<br/>
young bamboo-shoots, wild roots, and other<br/>
spontaneous productions of the ground. **<br/>
*
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_11_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
๏ นี้ เปน ขาว มา แต่ เมือง นอก. ๚ะ
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ เมื่อ กำปั่น ไฟ เจ้าพยา กลับ มา เที่ยว<br/>
นี้, มี ข่าว มา แต่ เมือง ลอนดอน ว่า, เมื่อ<br/>
เดือน สิบ สอง ขื้น สิบ ค่ำ, คฤษ ศักราช<br/>
๑๘๖๔ ที่ พระ ราชวัง กวีน, แล พระราช<br/>
โอรส ทั้ง หมด ควับ กัน ทั้ง พระองค์ จ้าว ชาย<br/>
พระองค์ จ้าว หญิง, ได้ อาไศรย อยู่ ที่ วิน ช่อ<br/>
เก๊ต เช่น, แล พระราช โอรส ที่ หนึ่ง, กับ<br/>
ภรรยา ท่าน ได้ เสดจ ไป ใน ประเศท ยูรบ,<br/>
แล้ว กลับ มา ยัง กรุง ลอนดอน. แล เมื่อ<br/>
เดือน สิบ สอง ขื้น เก้า ค่ำ. พระราช บิดา<br/>
ที่ เปน ภรรยา เจ้า ลูอิส แห่ง เมือง เห็ตชิ์ นั้น<br/>
ได้ คลอด บุตร หญิง คน หนึ่ง, ใน เดือน<br/>
สิบ สอง ชื้น สาม ค่ำ.    ๚ะ
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง เมือง ฝรั่ง เสศ กระษัตร เอ็มเปรอ<br/>
ได้ เสด็จ ไป เมือง ไนช์, ได้ ภบ กับ กระษัตร<br/>
เอ็มเปรอ เมือง รุเซีย, แล กระษัตร ทั้ง<br/>
สอง นั้น ตั้ง พระไทย, จะ ให้ ทูต ใน ประ<br/>
เทศ นั้น ๆ มา ประชุม พร้อม กัน, จะ ได้<br/>
ปฤก ษา กัน ถึง การ ใหญ่ ใน ประเทศ ยูรบ.<br/>
เหตุ ที่ เกิด ศึก ที่ เมือง เดนหมาก, เมีอง<br/>
ออเซะเตรีย, เมือง ปรอเซิย, เมือง ไนช์<br/>
นั้น, ได้ ตัดสิน ลง สง ชื่อ ใน หนังสือ สัญญา ให้<br/>
การ ศึก สงบ เปน ศุข แล้ว.    ๚ะ
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ซ่าว มา แต่ เมือง อเมริกา มี มา<br/>
ว่า, ณวัน เดือน สิบ สอง ขื้น สาม ค่ำ, การ<br/>
เลือก เปรศเต็นต์ เกือบ จะ ถึง แล้ว, แต่ มี<br/>
สอง อน ที่ ตั้ใจ ไว็​แล้ว ว่า เลือก, แต่<br/>
ใน สอง คน นั้น จะ เลือก เอา คน หนึ่ง ให้ เปน<br/>
เปรสเตนต์, มี ชื่อ เอปรัม ลีนคัน, ที่ เปน<br/>
เปรสเตนต์ อยู่ เดี๋ยว นี้, แล คน อื่น มี ชื้อ ว่า<br/>
เซ็ผะรัล แท็กเกล็นลัน, แต่ กอ่น เปน แม่<br/>
ทับ ใหญ่. คน ที่ หลาย ที่ เคย เข้าใจ ใน การ นี้,<br/>
ใด้ คิด ว่า, เอปรัม ลินคัน จะ ได้ หนังสือ ชื่อ<br/>
ฉลาก มาก กว่า, จะ ได้ เปน เปรศเต็นต์ อีก ที่<br/>
หนึ่ง. ๏ การ ขยถ ใหญ่ ใด้ แตก หลาย หน<br/>
แล้ว. ใน เดือน สิบ เอด แรม สี่ ค่ำ, มี การ<br/>
รบ กัน ใหญ่ ที่ เมือง เวอชินเนีย ใน หว่าง หุบ<br/>
เชาเช่นนันโดอา, เช็นะรัล เชอโรเด็น เปน แม่<br/>
ทับ ใหญ่ ฝ่าย เมือง มี ทหาร ศัก ๕๐ พัน คน,<br/>
เช็นะรัล เออเล่, เปน แม่ ทับ ใหญ่ ช้าง ฝ่าย<br/>
กระบถ มี ทหาร ศัก ๔๕ พ้น คน, คน ข้าง<br/>
ขนถ ก็ แตก ไป, คน ข้าง เมือง ไดั จับ เชลย<br/>
ศัก ๑๖๐๐ คน, ได้ ปืน ใหญ่ ๕๐ กระบอก.<br/>
เดี๋ยว นี้ คน กระบถ ไป ตั้ง เมือง อยู่ ที่ ริศมัน<br/>
ที่ แม่ น้ำ เยม, เช็นะรัล ลี้ แม่ ทับ ใหญ่ ฝ่าย<br/>
กระบก มี ทหาร ศัก ๑๐๐​พัน คน,มี ปอ้ม<br/>
เรี่ย ราย รอบ เมือง. เช็นะรัล เครนต์ แม่<br/>
ทับ ใหญ่ ฝ่าย เมือง มี ทหาร ศัก ๑๕๐​ พัน<br/>
คน, อยู่ นอก ไกล เมือง ประมาณ ๒๐๐​ เส้น<br/>
แห่ง หนึ่ง, แห่ง อื่น ศัก ๖๐๐​ เส้น, เกือบ จะ<br/>
รอบ เมือง แล้ว, ยัง อยู่ แต่ ทาง ออก แห่ง<br/>
เดียว.   ๏ ที่ เมือง วิลเมนตัน, อยู่ ที่ แขวง<br/>
เมือง นอ๊ดแกโรไลเน, เปน ทาง ที่ กำปั่น จะ<br/>
เข้า อยู่ ใก้ล ทเล, กำปั่น ไฟ ออก จาก เมือง<br/>
อังกฟษ ได้ เข้า ไป ที่ นั่น, เอา เครื่อง อาวุทธ,<br/>
ซาย แก่ คน ขบถ. แต่ บัต นี้ ช้าง เมือง ได้<br/>
ใช้ แอ๊ดทิรัน โปเตอ เปน แม่ ใหญ่ ใน กำ<br/>
ปั่น รบ นั้น, มี เรือ รบ ศัก ๔๐ ลำ, มี แม่<br/>
ทับ คน หบึ่ง ไป บน บก ที ทหาร ๔๐​ พัน คน.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
แก แม่ ทับ ทั้ง สอง จะ ไป บันจบ กัน, เพื่อ <br/>
จะ ปีด ทาง, มี ให้ กำปั่น ขาย เครื่อง อาวุทธ<br/>
นั้น ให้ ไป ได้.    ๚ะ
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ ที่ เมือง แอดลันตะ,- อยู่ ใน แขวง <br/>
เมือง ยอเชีย นั้น, เชนะรัล เชอมัน, แม่ ทับ <br/>
ใหญ่ ฝ่าย เมือง มี ทหาร ศัก ๕๐ พัน คน.<br/>
เชนะรัล หูต แม่ ทัไ ใหญ่ ฝ่าย ขยถ, มี ทะ<br/>
หาร ศัก ๓๐ พัน คน. ข้าง ฝ่าย ขยถ ได้ <br/>
แตก หลาย หน. แล ข้าง เมือง จับ พวก<br/>
ขนถ ได้ เปน เชลย ศัก ๑๐ พัน เศศ.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ที่ แขวง เมือง มิตสรี, พวก<br/>
ขบถ มี ทหาร ศัก ๓๐ พัน คน ได้ แตก กระ<br/>
จัด กระจาย ไป แล้ว. คน เคย เข้าใจ การนั้น<br/>
คิก ว่า, อีก ศัก เจด เดือน แปด เดือน จะ <br/>
เลิก การ ศึก, ข้าง พวก ขบถ จะ ยอม แพ้ ไป.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_11_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ข่าว เมือง ยิปุน
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ ใน เดือน ๑๒ ปี ชวด ฉศก แรม แปด<br/>
ค่ำ เพลา เช้า นั้น, เมเชยมละวิฉท์ หาย ทหาร,<br/>
แล ลุเตนนัน เปอ, ผู่ เปน นาย ทหาร ใน กอง<br/>
ทับ เจ้า เมือง อังกฤษ,​ ที่ ตั้ง อยู่ ใน เมือง<br/>
ยิปุ่น นั้น,​ ทั้ง สอง คน นั้น ขี่ ม้า ไป จาก<br/>
เมือง โยโกฮัมมา, หมาย จะ ไป เที่ยว เล่น ศัก<br/>
วัน หนึ่ง. เพลา พลบ ค่ำ วัน นั้น มี ข่าว มา<br/>
บอก ว่า, มี คน อังกฤษ สอง คน นอน ตาย<br/>
อยู่ ริม ทาง, ที่ บาย ทหาร เที่ยว ไป ถึง นั้น.<br/>
แม่ ทับ อังกฤษ, ก็​ให้ ทหาร ปื่น ใหญ่ กอง<br/>
หบึ่ง ยก ไป เรว พลัน. ครั้น กอง ทับ ไป<br/>
ถึง แล้ว, ถ็ ได้ เหน นาย ทหาร ที่ เที่ยว เล่น<br/>
นั้น เกย ทั้ง สอง คน. จึง แล เหน รอย อา<br/>
วุทธ ที่ กาย เขา นั้น ดู น่า กลัว นัก. แม่ ทับ<br/>
นั้น เที่ยว สืบ ข่าว เปน หลาย วัน, แล ไม่ ได้<br/>
ข่าว ก็ เงียบ ไป. แต่ เหตุ นี้ ดู เหมือน
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_12_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rcc">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. JAN. 16th 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rcd">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rce">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignee</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Burns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r49">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcf">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Freadenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">407</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Lanckenau</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">770</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Prouse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">K Leo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Oburnalde</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ellanbeth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Annerstadt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">373</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">To Order</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Eurphrates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Beharer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Brio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Roberts</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">198</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. K. Mason &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Rini Jano</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Stolse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Flying Flah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Rictoraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Lain</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fire Stars</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Golich</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">De.Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Owen [....]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ritchon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">438</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kusrovla</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Mandurla</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Gulafbrand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hanoverian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">327</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Raynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">394</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Mary Ross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Milner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nizam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Guisn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">461</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kofoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Brinroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">107</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Seaman's Bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Rothe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Choa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Seabeth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Concepcion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">312</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">320</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Berhun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kroes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">403</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Haineholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Torgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">308</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Verona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_12_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shipping Intelligence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ARRIVALS.
January 1st.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Penguin, British Schooner, 197 tons,<br/>
Beinoth Commander, Consignees, Chinese,<br/>
Amoy December 22nd.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steamer Chow Phya, 345 tons, Orton<br/>
Commander, Consignees, Poh Yim, Singa-<br/>
pore December 26th at 7 P.M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January 12th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Norseman, Siam Ship, 711 tons, Young<br/>
Commander, Consignees, Chinese. Hong-<br/>
Kong December 26th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rapid, Siamese Barque, 329 tons, Carlos<br/>
Commander, Consignee, Chinese, Hong-<br/>
Kong December 31st.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DEPARTURES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January 3rd.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Justina, Dutch Barque, 250 tons, A.<br/>
Lagarstom Commander, Consignees, Chi-<br/>
nese, for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January 4th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Enterprise, Siamese Barque, 488 tons,<br/>
Somfelt Commander, for Singapore. Con-<br/>
signees, Poh Yim.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January 5th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mercury Siamese Brig, 140 tons, Chinese,<br/>
Commander, Consignees, Chinese—Coast
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JANUARY 7TH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Constance, British Barque. 515 tons,<br/>
Ridson Commander. Consignees D. K.<br/>
Mason & Co. for Batavia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cap Sing Moon, British Barque, 460 tons.<br/>
Luders Commander, Consignees, A. Mark-<br/>
wuld & Co. for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hing Hoy, Siamese Barque. 353 tons.<br/>
Peterson Commander. Consignees: Poh<br/>
Yim, for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JANUARY 8TH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Water Lily, British Schooner, 166 tons,<br/>
Greig. Commander, for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Favorite, Siamese Ship, 345 tons, Leult<br/>
Commander, Consignees Chinese, for Singa-<br/>
pore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JANUARY 9TH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Helen Baird, British Barque, 481 tons,<br/>
Harris Commander. Consignees Borneo<br/>
Company Limited, Sourabaya for orders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JANUARY 11TH
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Narciss, Dutch Brig, 189 tons, Kelpitz<br/>
Commander, Consignees, A. Markwald & Co,<br/>
for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JANUARY 12TH
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nizam, French Barque, Guisn Comman-<br/>
der, Consignees: A. Markwald & Co. for<br/>
Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hing Hai, British Schooner, 88 tons,<br/>
Barrat Commander. Consignees, D.K. Ma-<br/>
son-Coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jan. 13th, Maria Gambriil, Siam Schooner,<br/>
376 tons, for Samarang. Noorfel, Siam<br/>
Barque, 133 tons for Singora.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
14th Elenor, Swed. Barque, 260 tons,<br/>
Java.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
15th for Kim Hong Tye, Siamese Barque,<br/>
316 tons for Batavia.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_13_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rumor current here two days ago<br/>
that one of the royal steamers had capsized<br/>
near the mouth of Petchaburee river, and<br/>
many persons consequently drowned, proves<br/>
to be quite false, if the Lord Mayor be cor-<br/>
rectly informed. A small ear boat was<br/>
upset in that vicinity, but no lives lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An Officer of government was killed in<br/>
going over to P. in one of the royal yachts,<br/>
in a time of much rolling of the vessel, by<br/>
a marble table or some other heavy article<br/>
of furniture, falling on his chest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another person of the royal retinue, was<br/>
taken sick at Petchaburee and died in this<br/>
city soon after his return.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the above exceptions, it is believed<br/>
that nothing has transpired to disturb the<br/>
peace and quietness of His Supreme Majesty<br/>
the king of Siam, in the progress of the<br/>
present grand royal festival at Petchaburee,<br/>
for the Hair cutting of several of His Ma-<br/>
jesty's royal offspring.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty Prabat Somdetch Pra<br/>
Pin Klow the second King returned from<br/>
the palace at Setha, on the morning of the<br/>
12th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_13_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
ชาว ยิปุ่น จะ รู้, น่า กลัว จะ เกิด ความ ศึก<br/>
อีก ครั้ง หนึ่ง, คือ ยิปุ่น กับ อังกฤษ นั้น.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
เมือง จีน,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ ข่าว มา แต่ เมือง จีน ใน เรว ๆ นี้<br/>
บอก ว่า, กอง ทับ ที่ คิด กระบถ นั้น, นับ<br/>
ได้ ประมาณ สาม หมื่น, ยก มาคั้ง อยู่ ใกล้<br/>
เมือง อะมอย, แต่ ยาก ที่ จะ ว่า การ ศึก นั้น<br/>
จะ สงบ สีน ลง เมื่อ ไร.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_13_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ถึง ผู้อ่าน
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ กาลนาน มา ได้ ประมาณ ๒๐ ปี แล้ว,<br/>
ครู แกษแวล กับ ข้าพเจ้า หมอ ปรัดเล, ได้<br/>
แต่ง หนังสือ จดหมมายเหตุ เดือน ละ ฉะบับ,<br/>
ที่ เรา เรียก ว่า บางกอก รีคอเด๊อ, แปล<br/>
เป็น ไทย ว่า, จดหมายเหตุ เมือง บางกอก,<br/>
ใน หนังสือ นั้น, จดหมาย ข่าว ที่ มา แต่<br/>
ประเทศ ลอ้ม รอบ เมือง ไทย, แล ประเทศ<br/>
ยุรบ, แล ประเทศ อเมริกัน, แล บอก สิงปะ<br/>
สาตร วิชาราร ต่าง ๆ. หน้งสือ นั้น ทำ ได้<br/>
แค่ เพียง ๑๖ เตือน ก็ อยุด, เพราะ ภรรยา<br/>
หมอ ปรัดเล ปว่ย หนัก ลง, แล กิจ ธุระ<br/>
ของ ครู แกษเวล, ถ็ มี มาก ขื้น หลาย อย่าง<br/>
ดว้ย. ครั้ง นั้น พวก ไทย ก็ ไม่ เต็มใจ จะ<br/>
ชื้อ หนังสือ จดหมายเหตุ ดว้ย, จึ่ง ได้ หยุก<br/>
การ นั้น เสีย. ตั้ง แต่ นั้น มา ขนบ ธรรม<br/>
เนียม ใน เมือง ไทย, ก็ เปลี่ยน แปลง ยัก<br/>
ข่าย เปน หลาย อย่าง. พระเจ้า แผ่นดิน<br/>
กอ่น นั้น เล่า, ก็ ไม่ โปรด พวก ชาว เมือง<br/>
นอก, แล ไม่ ตอ้ง พระ ราช ประสงค์ ที่ จะ<br/>
ทำ หน้งสือ สัญญา เปน ไมตรี กัน กับ เมือง<br/>
ใน ประเทศ ยุรบ, แล อเมวิกัน. แต่ พระ<br/>
บาท สมเด็จ พระ จอม เกล้า เจ้า อยู่ หัว พระ<br/>
องค์ นั้น, ทรง พระกรุณาโปรด, ให้ ทำ หนัง<br/>
สือ สัญา เปน ไมตรี กัน กับ เมือง ใน ประ<br/>
เทศ ยุรบ, แล อเมวิกัน. ขาว ประเทศ เมือง<br/>
นอก. จึ่ง ไท้ เข้า มา ค็า ขาย ทำ การ ต่าง ๆ<br/>
โดย สดวก. ข้พเจ้า หมอ ปรัดเล, แล ครู<br/>
แอ๊น เอ แมกดัล, ทั้ง สอง คน นี้ จึ่งใต้ ตั้งใจ<br/>
จะ แต่ง หบังสือ จดหมายเหตุ ที่ เรียก ว่า<br/>
บางกอก รีคอเดอ นั้น, เดือน ละ สอง ฉะบับ<br/>
ต่อ ๆ ไป, ดว้ย หมาย ว่า, ผวก ชาว ไทย<br/>
ทุก วัน นี้, มี ความ ปถถนา จะ รู้ ข่าว ที่ บัง<br/>
เกิด มา แต่ เมือง บอก มั้น  มาก กว่า เวลา<br/>
ก่อน ได้ ๒๐ ปี นั้น. ใน ประเทศ ยุรบ ที่ คน<br/>
ทั้ง ปวง ยอ่ม ว่า, เปน คน มี ปวก มาก นั้น,<br/>
เขา ได้  อาไศรย จดหมายเหตุ เปน อัน มาก<br/>
จดหมายเหตุ นั้น, มี มาก มาย หลาย อย่าง<br/>
นัก. แต่ เดิ่ม นั้น เมือง อังกฤษ เปน เมือง<br/>
เล็ก นอ้ย, ไท่ ที จดหมายเหตุ. เดียว นี้ ก็<br/>
มี มาก นับ ใค้ มี หลาย พัน. บับ แต่ หลัง<br/>
มา ได้ ประมาณ ๗๐​ ปี มา แล้ว,  หนังสือ<br/>
จดหมายเหตุ ที่ เมือง อเมริกัน, มี แต่ สอง<br/>
ฉะ บับ เท่า นั้น. ทุก วัน นี้ ก็​มี หลาย พัน.<br/>
ที่ ใน หัว เมือง ใหญ่ ๆ นั้น, เขา ได้ ตี หนัง<br/>
สือ จดหมายเหตุ ทุก ๆ วัน, ครอบครัว<br/>
ใน ประเทศ อเมริกัน ก็ ซื้อ, เจ็ด วัน ฉบับ<br/>
หนึ่ง บ้าง, บาง ที่ ได้ ซื้อ วัน ละ ฉบับ, สอง<br/>
ฉบับ, สาม ฉบับ บ้าง. คน ตี ไม่ ได้ ซื้อ<br/>
จดหมายเหตุ นั้น ก็ มี บ้าง,​ คน อื่น ลำคัญ เข้า<br/>
ใจ กัน ว่า, ผู้ นั้น เปน คน มาก จน จริง ๆ.<br/>
เพราะ ได้ อาไศรย จดหมายเหตุ, ชาว เมือง<br/>
ทั้ง ปวง จึ่ง ได้ รู้ ข่าว, แล วิชา การ ต่าง ๆ.<br/>
ที่ บังเกิด ทั่ว โลกย์.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_13_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ข่าว ที่ มี มา ใหม่ นั้น ว่า, เซอโร <br/>
เบิดซาเบิก, ไป ถึง เมือง เบอลิบ เปน กรุง <br/>
ใน ประเทศ ปรอยซิน แล้ว, แล หนังสือ <br/>
สัญญา ที่ เปน ไมตรี กัน กับ เมือง ไทย, <br/>
แล เมือง ปรอยซิน นั้น, คน ใน เมือง ปรอย <br/>
ซิน เล่า ฦๅ กัน สรรเสิญ ว่า, งาม จริง.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
