---
linkTitle: 'December 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 16th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 23
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY DECEMBER 16th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 22</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok 16th. Dec. 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is seldom that we venture to say any<br/>
thing in reference to ourselves, but it is<br/>
sometimes necessary to refer to our own<br/>
affairs. Our readers will perceive by the<br/>
number of this issue, that another issue will<br/>
complete the volume, and consequently<br/>
close up the year. We commenced the<br/>
year under rather unfavourable circumstances,<br/>
consequently our expectations did not run<br/>
very high. The European community here,<br/>
upon whom we must depend almost whol-<br/>
ly for the support of a paper in the English<br/>
language, is small, and not only that, but<br/>
the last year has been one full of discourage-<br/>
ment to most of them. Many of them felt<br/>
poor, speaking comparatively with other<br/>
years, and consequently could not give a<br/>
paper that pecuniary encouragement which<br/>
otherwise might have been expected. The<br/>
newspaper growth here too, was rather<br/>
spontaneous, and it might have been feared,<br/>
that it would also be ephemeral. Our friend<br/>
of the "Straits Times" however wholly mis-<br/>
understands our editorial in the issue of<br/>
Oct. 14th, and takes it to mean that our<br/>
labors have not met with a proper pecuni-<br/>
ary reward. It was written, it is true in<br/>
rather a disposing strain, and unac-<br/>
quainted with the circumstances might<br/>
readily misunderstand it.  It did not how-<br/>
ever refer to our pecuniary affairs at all.<br/>
Our only expectation when we commenced<br/>
was to be able to pay the expenses of pub-<br/>
lishing, leaving little or nothing for labor.<br/>
In this we have not been disappointed.<br/>
Our receipts, if any thing, have rather sur-<br/>
passed our expectations.  The European<br/>
community have done nobly.  They have<br/>
gone beyond what could reasonably have<br/>
been expected in such a year as the last.<br/>
They have made a pretty good effort to-<br/>
wards supporting two papers.  We do not<br/>
believe that two papers can be supported<br/>
here, nor even one when taken as a separ-<br/>
rate business, but in connection with some-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
thing else in the same lines, it may be<br/>
made to pay expenses, still the community<br/>
deserves credit for what it has done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is however another feature in our<br/>
paper which must not be overlooked. Our<br/>
object we had in view was to give the<br/>
Siamese a paper in their own language.<br/>
This was to a great extent an experiment,<br/>
and had to be undertaken with caution.<br/>
At first it was deemed expedient to have<br/>
pages of Siamese in connection with the<br/>
English. We soon however found much<br/>
encouragement, as justified in separating<br/>
it and making two distinct sheets. The<br/>
Siamese issue was again enlarged so as to<br/>
be equal in size with the English. In this<br/>
department, although the encouragement<br/>
is far from what we would like to see, still<br/>
it surpasses what could reasonably have<br/>
been expected. Whilst we give the Euro-<br/>
pean community credit for what they have<br/>
done, we must also in justice praise, the<br/>
Siamese for the manner in which they have<br/>
taken hold of this new enterprise amongst<br/>
them. It was a new thing to most of them.<br/>
It has also brought out from amongst them<br/>
several very respectable writers. We have<br/>
articles from some of them, although of no<br/>
great depth, still evincing a shrewdness<br/>
hardly to be expected. As to the matter,<br/>
and manner of our paper, we have tried as<br/>
far as possible to fulfill our promise at the<br/>
commencement, but we have laboured un-<br/>
der some difficulties. We have had noth-<br/>
ing but native composition, which rendered<br/>
it almost impossible to keep free from mis-<br/>
takes and typographical errors. Being a<br/>
semi-monthly also, any items which might<br/>
have been distracted from exchanges and<br/>
which would have been interesting to the<br/>
community, here, were gathered up by the<br/>
weekly paper long before we were ready<br/>
to come out, so that we have been obliged<br/>
to look entirely to another course for our<br/>
matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now, it may be asked, what is to become<br/>
of the "Recorder" in future? Is it to be<br/>
one of those things of spontaneous<br/>
growth, and ephemeral existence! Is it to<br/>
be a child of but one year's growth and then<br/>
depart, leaving but few to mourn its death?<br/>
Upon these questions it does not behove<br/>
one to speak too confidently. Newspaper<br/>
life, and especially in this hemisphere is<br/>
precarious. But we think we are safe in<br/>
announcing that the "Recorder" will be con-<br/>
tinued; and the Siamese issue must be con-<br/>
tinued, and we think the English will be<br/>
continued also in some form or other. We<br/>
are not sure however but the English issue<br/>
may become a Weekly one. We shall pro-<br/>
bably be enabled to announce more fully<br/>
in our next issue what will be done. We<br/>
will announce however that the labors of<br/>
the present Editor will cease, as Editor, at<br/>
the end of the year. This will probably be<br/>
no loss, but rather a gain to the paper. And<br/>
should the paper be continued, he solicits<br/>
for his successor the same support and<br/>
indulgence which he has received, hoping<br/>
even that the support may be increased<br/>
both in a pecuniary way, and by contri-<br/>
butions for the paper. He thinks also that<br/>
he can promise that the paper will con-<br/>
tinue to be as good, if not superior to what<br/>
it has been.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Nuisances.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would be difficult for any one even of<br/>
ordinarily acute senses not to perceive that<br/>
we are passing through what may be called<br/>
the fish season. In this city of delicate<br/>
odours there are two seasons which are es-<br/>
pecially trying upon delicate olfactories.<br/>
One of these is the durian season when<br/>
the natives revel in the fumes of sulphuret-<br/>
ed hydrogen gas which emanates from that,<br/>
(to them) exceedingly delicious fruit, and<br/>
in which even exotics, of morbid palates<br/>
and blunted olfactories seem to delight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The other season may be called the fish<br/>
season, and through which we have just<br/>
been passing. The whole year round may<br/>
in a certain sense be called the fish season,<br/>
but fish, like every thing else has their<br/>
special season. During this season junks,<br/>
and vessels load fish here for Java and<br/>
and other places. The fish it is said are scarce<br/>
this season, and the is later. Al-<br/>
most every boat which passes now emits a<br/>
dead, heavy, oily, fishy smell, which is very<br/>
disagreeable. But perhaps we should not<br/>
complain, when masters of vessels and<br/>
others can endure a cargo of thees fish for<br/>
weeks, and they constitute one of the<br/>
articles of export. These and the duriens<br/>
are nuisances we shall likely have to endure<br/>
as long as we remain in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are however other nuisances of the<br/>
same kind, which might, and we think<br/>
ought to be stated. One in the highest<br/>
authority says that "rather than spend money<br/>
for those things which he thinks would<br/>
not be beneficial to the country, he would<br/>
rather spend it in gathering up the carcas-<br/>
es of dead dogs for the purpose of burning<br/>
them." Even that would be a step in the<br/>
right direction. Not a day passes but we<br/>
are disgusted with the floating carcases of<br/>
these pariahs, upon the rivers. Especially<br/>
in this the case when the water in the river<br/>
is low and the tide flows strongly. The<br/>
natives too, generally use the water of the<br/>
river for drinking, and that without filtering.<br/>
So many dead dogs and other carcas-<br/>
ses decaying in the river, must necessarily<br/>
contaminate the water with decayed animal<br/>
matter, and render it unwholesome. In-<br/>
deed the river is a common receptacle for<br/>
every offel. By a little care on the part of<br/>
the city authorities most of these things<br/>
might be avoided. An officer should be<br/>
appointed, whose business it would be to<br/>
attend to the general cleanliness of the riv-<br/>
er and city, and a fine should be imposed<br/>
upon every one who was caught throwing<br/>
any thing of the kind into the river. The<br/>
natives of course know no nuances. They<br/>
would as soon live in close proximity to a<br/>
seri garden or a boat of rotten fish as not,<br/>
but we may as well begin to instruct them<br/>
now upon that point as at any other time.<br/>
And so long as we are on the subject of<br/>
dogs, we may as well mention another mat-<br/>
ter. The whole country is full of pariahs.<br/>
Most of them have no particular owners,<br/>
They are a nuisance to every one. Every<br/>
wat is swarming with them. Many of them<br/>
are nearly starved and are so poor they are<br/>
obliged to lean against something when they<br/>
attempt to bark. They render night<br/>
hideous with theirs howls. Great numbers<br/>
of them are also to be found in the streets<br/>
and markets. Every pork or venison stand<br/>
has its pensioners. Many there are so old<br/>
that they have scarcely any hair, others<br/>
are covered with scabs. A person can not pass<br/>
along without being disgusted. A good<br/>
way to get clear of these would be to im-<br/>
pose a tax of about two salungs upon,<br/>
every dog found about a man's house, ex-<br/>
cept one. One good dog, is useful and<br/>
they should be allowed one, but for every<br/>
additional one make them pay taxes. Our<br/>
opinion is that the dogs would soon disap-<br/>
pear, but then care would have to be taken<br/>
lest they might be found in the river. The<br/>
government has no conscienious scruples<br/>
about imposing taxes upon other things,<br/>
why should it have upon this point?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another nuisance is the pla or seri gar-<br/>
dens. The gardens in themselves would be<br/>
no nuisance, but they must have rotten fish.<br/>
These gardens, and the fish which are put<br/>
around the vines are becoming a great nui-<br/>
sance to those who live down the river.<br/>
They are rapidly increasing too. The fruit<br/>
gardens are gradually giving way to them.<br/>
We suppose, considering the taxes, the seri<br/>
pays better than the fruit. It is as much<br/>
as a man's life is worth to pass through the<br/>
klong Somrey these days, such is the<br/>
stench that meets him. When the wind<br/>
blows over these gardens toward our dwel-<br/>
lings the stench is unendurable. Often-<br/>
times at night in bed we feel like giving<br/>
the decree, if we had the power, to have the<br/>
vines all pulled up by the roots. The fact<br/>
is they should be prohibited within a cer-<br/>
tain distance of the city. There are places<br/>
just as well calculated for them, suffic-<br/>
iently far from the city to be no nuisance,<br/>
and still sufficiently near the market. It is<br/>
a pity to have the fruit gardens give way to<br/>
these abominable nuisances.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rice Crop
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed that the fields<br/>
of rice planted this year are much more<br/>
extensive than in any previous year, and<br/>
that the crop up to the present time is very<br/>
promising. But there is reported an un-<br/>
common prevalence of chills and fever in<br/>
several of the gates rice districts, threatening<br/>
to diminish the number of reapers, to<br/>
such an extent as to create much anxiety<br/>
for the ingathering of the harvest. And<br/>
it is said that the rice fields about Ayudia,<br/>
the old city, are in danger of great damage<br/>
from the unusual continuance of the annual<br/>
inundation-—that the rice will be ready for<br/>
reaping before the flooding of the fields has<br/>
sufficiently subsided, in which case the<br/>
reaping of it must be very slow and much<br/>
of it lost in the water. And furthermore,<br/>
there is the want of the usual strong winds<br/>
at this season of the year, which not only<br/>
occasions the floods to subside the more<br/>
rapidly, but also lays the standing grain<br/>
all over in one direction, making it com-<br/>
paratively easy to reap it. The winds be-<br/>
ing variable is said to entangle the grain,<br/>
and consequently it can be but slowly in-<br/>
gathered, and much of it necessarily lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There may be a good deal of truth in<br/>
these reports. Still we think they are<br/>
overwrought, to which the Siamese are<br/>
peculiarly liable, but more especially this<br/>
year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of our correspondents says;—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearly all the country above Bang-<br/>
chaw, and a great portion of the low coun-<br/>
try, is still much flooded, the water in some<br/>
districts being about two or three feet deep<br/>
in the fields, and consequently the grain is<br/>
slow in coming to maturity. The present<br/>
prospects of an abundant harvest, are very<br/>
good, but owing to the slowly receding<br/>
floods, the bulk of the crop throughout<br/>
the district, can scarcely be ready for reaping<br/>
before the beginning of the year, or the<br/>
middle of January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Com.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Corps in British Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Rangoon Times.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is with sincere pleasure, we solicit the<br/>
attention of the Commercial public to the<br/>
very satisfactory Report which appears un-<br/>
der the heading of official paper, on the<br/>
state of the growing Crop in all the differ-<br/>
ent districts of our province. Fears were<br/>
entertained sometime ago, that the cattle<br/>
disease which had prevailed in all the low-<br/>
er sections of the Rangoon district, would<br/>
very nearly annihilate all prospect of any<br/>
crop this year. But these fears are greatly<br/>
mitigated by the announcement that not<br/>
more than ten per cent of the cultivation<br/>
will be lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bassein and Martaban districts,<br/>
have both suffered slightly from insects,<br/>
but their disastrous work was repaired be-<br/>
fore the season was far advanced. Fresh<br/>
paddy was planted.  In every other part<br/>
of this fruitful province, the hearts of the<br/>
husbandman will be made glad, and they<br/>
will be led to rejoice next December, over<br/>
a harvest as bountiful as any that has been<br/>
reaped in many years.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OFFICIAL PAPER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
MEMO.
CHIEF COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE.
Rangoon 20th October 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SUBJECT - STATE OF THE RICE CROPS
IN THE PRESENT SEASON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ARYAB DISTRICT.
Reported by Commissioner on the
26th September 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The crops appear to be in a very healthy
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
RAMREE DISTRICT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The paddy continues very promising.
SANDWAY DISTRICT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The prospect of the paddy is favorable.
RANGOON DISTRICT.
Reported by Commissioner on the
3rd October 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Notwithstanding the murrian among the<br/>
cattle, there will not be a decrease of more<br/>
than 10 per cent in paddy cultivation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BASSERIN DISTRICT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One third of the, paddy sown was des-<br/>
troyed by insects but has been replanted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PROSER DISTRICT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Crop expected to be the same as last<br/>
year's.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TOUNGOO DISTRICT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Crop looking very favorable, and every<br/>
prospect of a rich harvest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
AMHERST DISTRICT.
Reported by Commissioner on the
12th October 1885.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A good average Crop.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
MATABAN DIVISION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Near Shwegyeen and Sittang damage<br/>
was done to the crop by insects and inun-<br/>
dation. But in the other parts of this dis-<br/>
trict the crops are good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TAVOR and MENGOU DISTRICTS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A more plentiful crop expected than has<br/>
been for some years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
H. NELSON DAVIES.
Secretary to the Chief Commissioner.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Borrowed Capital!
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Or, Getting on in the world.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sylvester Rodney was the name of a<br/>
young man, in one of our cities, who had<br/>
just set up a business for himself on a<br/>
limited capital, and everybody, himself in-<br/>
cluded, believed he was doing well. To<br/>
be sure, his weekly receipts were not large;<br/>
neither were his expenses, enormous; and,<br/>
by a careful mode of figuring up under the<br/>
head of "outlay" and "income" he was<br/>
satisfied that the profits of his store were<br/>
sufficient to keep his stock good and fur-<br/>
nish the necessary expenses of households,<br/>
with something in store for a rainy day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For a time Sylvester was quite content<br/>
with this. He may have had occasional<br/>
dreams of an ambitious nature, but he never<br/>
allowed them to interfere with his business<br/>
matters. For several years he had oc-<br/>
cupied the same little store; it had yielded<br/>
him enough for home comforts, and surely<br/>
he need not ask for more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But an evil day came to Sylvester<br/>
Rodney. Large stores, fine fronts and<br/>
genteel clerks were becoming the rage, and<br/>
with dismay he saw that many of his friends,<br/>
who had started about the same time and<br/>
in the same manner as himself, were leav-<br/>
ing him far behind. Of course, he could<br/>
not say that they were growing rich; it<br/>
might be quite the reverse; but they were<br/>
certainly making more splendid appear-<br/>
ances, and rising far above him, according<br/>
to the indications of social thermometers.<br/>
Sylvester himself did not notice or feel this<br/>
so keenly as his wife. Katy Rodney had been<br/>
a great favorite in her circle, and she<br/>
formed many friendships she rarely valued;<br/>
yet, while the social position of herself and<br/>
husband remained the same, others were<br/>
climbing the ladder of fame and distinction.<br/>
With pain she saw the growing coldness<br/>
of one after another of her former compan-<br/>
ions; and soon she began to feel really<br/>
alarmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Sylvester," she said, one day, seizing<br/>
the opportunity, "do you not know, dear-<br/>
est, that we are losing ground fearfully!<br/>
that all our old companions are getting<br/>
above us in style and position! see James<br/>
Granger. He commenced life when you<br/>
did, with hardly more means, and Lizzie<br/>
was on the best of terms with me. Now she<br/>
never condescends to call upon me, and I<br/>
am sure James had no more opportunities<br/>
for getting on in the world than you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I've noticed that for some time, Katy,"<br/>
replied the young merchant; "but I am<br/>
sure I don't understand it. I cannot help<br/>
their success."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But you can follow their example, Syl-<br/>
vester. Do not they do, and make your<br/>
mark a few steps higher in the scale."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"All well in sound, Katy; but how to<br/>
make the thing work, is the vital question.<br/>
I will do anything to please you if I can<br/>
only see how it is to be done."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I cannot give the details," she replied;<br/>
"that is for you men of business to deter-<br/>
mine. Only, I suppose, it is done by put-<br/>
ting in more capital and making more<br/>
show generally. But I really wish you<br/>
would think of it, dear; for it is too bad to<br/>
plod on in this way, while others go ahead<br/>
with such rapid strides."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sylvester thought the matter over, and<br/>
the more he thought the more uneasy he<br/>
became. Sure enough, why should he<br/>
plod on so slowly while others were masters<br/>
of large establishments and making large<br/>
displays in the fashionable world? He saw<br/>
plainly enough, now, that he had been too<br/>
contended, and allowed matters to take<br/>
their own way too much. If he would suc-<br/>
ceed, he must make bolder efforts to gain<br/>
the success he coveted, and strive to keep<br/>
pace with his fellows at all hazards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was still revolving the idea in his<br/>
mind when an old friend, who had been<br/>
successful in mercantile affairs, entered the<br/>
store. It was a dull day, and, no cus-<br/>
tomers being in, the young man broached<br/>
the subject nearest his heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mr. Marsh," he commenced, earnestly,<br/>
"I am anxious to challenge any business. I<br/>
wish to bring it into something of more<br/>
importance. I have plodded here so long<br/>
that I really tire of the old style."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"That is too apt to be the case with<br/>
young business men of to-day," responded<br/>
the merchant, Ephraim Marsh. It is a<br/>
common error to try to right things, and<br/>
I find it almost always brings up disas-<br/>
trously. But in what manner do you think<br/>
of making this improvement?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I hardly know. I wish to enlarge both<br/>
premises and stock. You are older and<br/>
can advise me."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I should not care to advise you in such<br/>
matters," the other returned, with a shake<br/>
of the head. "One man cannot lay down<br/>
a line of conduct for another man, and<br/>
know what his success will be. You will<br/>
be more likely to strike the true plan,<br/>
unadvised, than by any kind of counsel."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I feel no fears but that the extension<br/>
would bring me additional custom sufficient<br/>
to pay the expense incurred. By tact and<br/>
talent I think it quite possible to make a<br/>
good business stand of this."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Quite likely. Yet let me caution you<br/>
against expecting too sudden an increase.<br/>
Your old customers will adhere to you,<br/>
and new ones will gradually come in.<br/>
But in all things be moderate. Do not let<br/>
your fancies or your expectations get the<br/>
better of your judgment, and take an<br/>
Icarian flight, from which you may tumble<br/>
headlong."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The young merchant promised to govern<br/>
himself, and the counsellor took his leave.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As may readily be supposed, Sylvester<br/>
did not long continue in this undecided<br/>
frame of mind. He found another coun-<br/>
sellor, one who had just retired from busi-<br/>
ness, and who had plenty of money to<br/>
invest in anything which promised to pay<br/>
well. Caleb Broker was his name, and it<br/>
was about as proper in its significance as<br/>
any name could be. To him, then, our<br/>
young merchant made known his wishes<br/>
and aspirations. Mr. Broker heard him<br/>
through before making any answer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You'll have to do it," he then said,<br/>
"in order to keep up with the times.<br/>
Years ago it would not do for a man to keep<br/>
on in the same careful track; but times<br/>
have changed now, and we must pace<br/>
with them."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The result was that Caleb Broker placed<br/>
in the hands of Sylvester Rodney five<br/>
thousand dollars, for which the latter gave<br/>
the required bonds upon all his property.<br/>
Mr. Broker reasoned in this wise: if the<br/>
young man felt determined to enlarge his<br/>
business, he must have capital, and would<br/>
have it. Why not, then, supply him, and<br/>
take the risk? If the business proved suc-<br/>
cessful, it would be a good investment; if<br/>
otherwise, he should keep a sharp lookout<br/>
for his money.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proposed alterations were made,<br/>
and the five thousand dollars soon invested,<br/>
Sylvester wondered where it all lay when<br/>
he once more threw open his store, for<br/>
the figures seemed immensely larger than the<br/>
increase in his business. Yet he was<br/>
surely upon the rights track now, and he<br/>
must wait for good results.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One year passed quickly away. To Syl-<br/>
vester Rodney it seemed to fly, so rapid<br/>
was the passage of weeks and months.<br/>
Yet his prospects were no better than one<br/>
year before-—all in all, he believed not as<br/>
good. The improved style of the store<br/>
rendered additional expenses necessary to<br/>
the house. New furniture must be pro-<br/>
cured; and, when this was done, the old<br/>
carpets looked so faded and out of place.<br/>
One improvement suggested another, and<br/>
rendered necessary the third, till not only<br/>
were the profits from trade consumed, but<br/>
numerous heavy bills ran up on credit,<br/>
which would require to be met sooner or<br/>
later. Still the young merchant did not<br/>
feel any especial alarm, for he was too<br/>
wholly wrapped in the present to contem-<br/>
plate the future. Thus it was that Mr.<br/>
Broker found him at the end of the year,<br/>
when he called for the interest upon the<br/>
money.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is no matter," he said, with apparent<br/>
kindness. "It can be paid or not; the first<br/>
year is always the hardest, and, if not con-<br/>
venient, it can run on, drawing compound<br/>
interest until next year."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was kindness, indeed.  So thought<br/>
Sylvester, and, after stating the many<br/>
causes which had rendered the first year<br/>
unpromising, he accepted the leniency of<br/>
his creditor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A second year passed.  The bills con-<br/>
tracted before had now fallen due, while<br/>
new improvements and new outlays became<br/>
necessary.  Sickness in the family was add-<br/>
ed to other misfortunes, and when two<br/>
years had elapsed he was in the same con-<br/>
dition as before.  Mr. Broker called with<br/>
the notes, but Sylvester had no money.<br/>
His bank account was nearly drawn, and<br/>
he could not raise fifty dollars.  He repre-<br/>
sented his affairs to Caleb Broker, and<br/>
with many misgivings; for he had really<br/>
hoped to see the young man prosper, the<br/>
capitalist consented to wait one more year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This time Sylvester bent his energies to<br/>
the task, and he succeeded in a measure.<br/>
But he had no idea of the gigantic nature<br/>
of the task. This thing was needed, that<br/>
thing must be done, all requiring an outlay<br/>
of cash. Goods must be purchased and<br/>
the stock kept up, else nearly all his efforts<br/>
were vain. Yet his money in the bank grad-<br/>
ually increased, and when the important<br/>
day arrived he had about five hundred dol-<br/>
lars on deposit. This he would pay, and<br/>
surely Mr. Broker would wait a short time<br/>
for the balance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The day came at length, and with it<br/>
came Caleb Broker.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I hope you find it convenient to pay<br/>
the interest of those notes to-day," he<br/>
said, blandly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I think I can nearly pay it," was the<br/>
answer, "and I hope you will be willing to<br/>
await the balance for a few days."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! certainly.  Anything for accommo-<br/>
dation, if it is not too great."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Have you the amount of the interest?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"For three years, I suppose, you mean?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Certainly."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"One thousand, one hundred and twenty-<br/>
five dollars and twenty-two cents."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Impossible.  It cannot be so much,"<br/>
said the young merchant, with a start.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But here are the figures," returned<br/>
Caleb Broker, quietly.  "The interest on<br/>
five thousand dollars for one year, at seven<br/>
per cent, is three hundred and fifty dollars.<br/>
Add this to the principal, and the interest<br/>
for the second year is three hundred and<br/>
seventy-four dollars and fifty cents.  This<br/>
counted in turn will make the interest for<br/>
this within a fraction of four hundred<br/>
dollars and seventy-two cents.  Add these<br/>
together, and you have the result.  Am I<br/>
not right!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sylvester Rodney ran over the figures<br/>
for a moment.  He was astounded at the<br/>
result, for he had made no close calculations<br/>
previously.  Strange that it was so, yet<br/>
such was the fact.  Then the sum which<br/>
he had so carefully saved was less than one<br/>
half, after all.  He glanced once or twice<br/>
round the store, and then turned to Mr.<br/>
Broker, who awaited his answer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You are right," he said, "I had not<br/>
cast it up, and had no idea it amounted to<br/>
so much.  I can pay you a portion of it,<br/>
and shall have to ask for a few days' grace<br/>
in which to raise the balance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was readily granted.  The five<br/>
hundred dollars were paid over and receipt-<br/>
ed for, after which Mr. Broker took his<br/>
leave, promising to call in a week for the<br/>
remainder, which Sylvester promised should<br/>
be ready.  After he was left alone he sat<br/>
down, and for nearly two hours busied<br/>
himself in reflection and calculation.  At<br/>
length some determination seemed to be<br/>
reached as he rose, put on his hat in the<br/>
most energetic manner and beat his steps<br/>
homewards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The day following was Sunday, but in-<br/>
stead of attending church, as usual, Sylves-<br/>
ter spent it in the store. For two or three<br/>
days following he seemed silent and preoc-<br/>
cupied, but when Thursday evening came<br/>
he met his wife with a glad smile upon his<br/>
features.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Katy, I am a free man once more,"<br/>
was his exclamation as soon as they were<br/>
alone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What do you mean, Sylvester!?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"That I have money at last to pay Mr.<br/>
Broker's borrowed capital."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Not all of it?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Every cent?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But how did you obtain it?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Sold the store, goods and every thing."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why did you do that when you were<br/>
prospering so nicely?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Listen, Katy, and I will show you how<br/>
I was prospering. Three years ago, when<br/>
I commenced upon borrowed capital, I had<br/>
in stock, of my own little capital, over<br/>
twenty-five hundred dollars. Supposing<br/>
that I used, for various purposes, two thou-<br/>
sand of the borrowed money, there would<br/>
still remain three thousand to put into stock.<br/>
There would be five thousand five<br/>
hundred dollars in trade. On last Sunday<br/>
I took an inventory of all my stock, and I<br/>
found about five thousand dollars still in<br/>
trade. Out of this I owed over six hund-<br/>
red dollars of interest, besides the prin-<br/>
cipal. I found a purchaser at seven thou-<br/>
sand dollars, which was just about the<br/>
worth of the premises, with my improve-<br/>
ments and privileges. After paying off Mr.<br/>
Broker, I shall have about thirteen hun-<br/>
dred and seventy dollars, which is all we<br/>
have in the world except our house and<br/>
furniture."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wife saw how it was, and bowed in<br/>
acquiescence to the measure. She loved<br/>
a social position, but she had much rather<br/>
be humble and respected than as the wife<br/>
of a bankrupt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Broker, on the following morning,<br/>
was startled by the sight of a check cover-<br/>
ing the entire amount due him, but he<br/>
took it in silence, more than half suspect-<br/>
ing the truth. Sylvester paid up his<br/>
indebtedness to every man, and then had<br/>
about one thousand dollars in cash. He<br/>
speedily sought a position, nor was he long<br/>
in finding honorable employment, where<br/>
his stock of ready money turned to excel-<br/>
lent account. In a few months he was<br/>
enabled to buy a paying interest in a suc-<br/>
cessful firm, and to-day he is a leading<br/>
merchant in the quiet little city where he<br/>
dwells.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a few months after selling his<br/>
store that he read with surprise the announ-<br/>
cement that James Granger had failed.<br/>
He drew the attention of his wife to the<br/>
fact, and remarked—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You see, Kay— the end of the road.<br/>
It is the same one we pursued while en-<br/>
devouring to follow their lead, and get on<br/>
in the world from borrowed capital."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To Buddhist Advocate.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Second Answer
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My Buddhist friend manifestly desires<br/>
me to answer his second reply to me, and<br/>
I will therefore now do it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He is not willing to allow that the native<br/>
Christians of Siam are Christians in name<br/>
only and not in heart, because he has "care-<br/>
fully observed, that they are much more<br/>
strict in the observances of Christian forms<br/>
than the Europeans who reside in Siam."<br/>
The question is not whether they are better<br/>
Christians than the Europeans, but whether<br/>
they are real and true Christians. My friend<br/>
mistakes the forms of these Roman Catholic<br/>
Christians for the religion of Christ, and<br/>
therefore wonders why they, who are so<br/>
much more strict in the observance of those<br/>
forms, are not as well educated, as strong-<br/>
minded, as rich and influential as those<br/>
careless and negligent Europeans who<br/>
call themselves Christians. Now the fact<br/>
is that these native followers of Roman<br/>
Catholicism are strict in the observance of<br/>
the forms of the Romish Church, is no evi-<br/>
dence that they are good Christians. The<br/>
Pharisees of old were of all men in the<br/>
world the most punctilious in the observance<br/>
of forms of religion, and forms too, general-<br/>
ly sanctioned by the Bible. And yet Christ<br/>
pronounced them "hypocrites," "blind<br/>
guides" and even put to them the scathing<br/>
question "How can ye escape the damna-<br/>
tion of hell" And the reason was, that they<br/>
had merely the form of godliness without<br/>
the power, and were trusting wholly to that.<br/>
Now the religion of Christ is manifested in<br/>
the life of the professor, by love to God,<br/>
and tender compassion toward men. In<br/>
other words it is to be like Christ, to imitate<br/>
and follow him in his love of pleasing the<br/>
Father, and his love of "going about doing<br/>
good" to men. Now the question, is do<br/>
these native Christian of Siam thus follow<br/>
Christ!  Do those negligent and careless<br/>
Europeans do this?  If not, the word of<br/>
God for it, they are but false Christians,<br/>
"If any man have not the Spirit of Christ<br/>
he is none of his."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What my friend says about the careless-<br/>
ness and negligence of many European re-<br/>
sidents and transient visitors of Bangkok<br/>
in regard to the christian religion is but<br/>
too true, and I feel very sad in being oblig-<br/>
ed to acknowledge it.  But I would beg my<br/>
friend to make a distinction between those<br/>
European christians, who by their abandon-<br/>
ment of the house of God and profanation<br/>
of the Lord's day, dishonor Christ and<br/>
cause his "name to be blasphemed among<br/>
the heathen," and those who honor Him<br/>
by assembling themselves together on the<br/>
Sabbath to call on His name and study His<br/>
word.  My friend may rest assured that all<br/>
such Europeans as keep no day "holy unto<br/>
the Lord" are christians in name only and<br/>
not in heart. It is true that the most of<br/>
them are more highly favored than native<br/>
Roman Catholic christians in Siam in the<br/>
sense that they have a far better education,<br/>
stronger mental powers and consequent in-<br/>
fluence among men. some of them being<br/>
master mariners, some wealthy merchants,<br/>
some consuls etc. The chief reason of their<br/>
being this more prospered than native<br/>
christians is, that they have all been educat-<br/>
ed in the light of the Bible, in a land whose<br/>
laws and customs have nearly all sprang<br/>
from the Bible. Their minds have been<br/>
much enlightened and well disciplined by<br/>
a christian education in schools, academies,<br/>
and colleges under a christian government.<br/>
Hence they all bear the christian name.<br/>
But those Europeans to whom my Bud-<br/>
dhist friend refers, give no evidence that they<br/>
ever gave their hearts to Christ, and con-<br/>
sequently it does not appear that they be-<br/>
long to his church. But such Europeans<br/>
as endeavor daily to imitate Christ do in-<br/>
deed belong to his Church, and he says<br/>
of them that "they are the light of the<br/>
world" Wherever the true followers of<br/>
Christ are sufficiently numerous to in-<br/>
fluence the governments under which they<br/>
live, God uniformly blesses those govern-<br/>
ments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now true Christians have long been<br/>
numerous enough in England and other<br/>
parts of Europe to influence those govern-<br/>
ments, some more and some less, according<br/>
to the degree of their conformity to Christ.<br/>
Consequently those governments have<br/>
been blessed of God with far greater light<br/>
and power than can be found in heathen<br/>
lands. And all the people in those lands,<br/>
even though many of them do not love God,<br/>
are greatly benefited in this life by the<br/>
reflex influences of the word of God upon<br/>
them, even as the natural sun is a blessing<br/>
"unto the evil as well as the good," and<br/>
as the rain is a blessing "to the unjust as<br/>
well as the just." And when these merely<br/>
nominal christians remove from the land of<br/>
their birth into a heathen country, they will<br/>
show, to a greater or less extent, this reflect-<br/>
ed influence of the Bible upon them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now this is the reason why those Euro-<br/>
peans, who so openly and sadly neglect<br/>
Christianity in Siam, appear to be more<br/>
blessed than the native professors of Christ,<br/>
These have never been trained under a<br/>
christian government. Those under Roman<br/>
Catholic training, have never had the Bible<br/>
given to them. The Pope forbids them to<br/>
have it entire, and to read and study it by<br/>
themselves. They are allowed only to have<br/>
garbled parts of the Bible, and those even,<br/>
must be clothed with the glosses of the<br/>
Roman priests, which are generally greatly<br/>
erroneous. How then can it be expected<br/>
that they should be as enlightened, intellec-<br/>
lectual, influential and otherwise prosperous<br/>
as those Europeans, who have lived in the<br/>
full and strong light of an entire Bible all<br/>
their days!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With regard to the great numbers which<br/>
my friend has heard of in Europe, who at-<br/>
tempted to test the truth of christianity, first<br/>
by ridiculing it, and then seeing no harm<br/>
resulting from such conduct, turned to<br/>
praising God and praying to Him to see<br/>
what might be the consequence of such<br/>
devotion, and then finally, seeing that no<br/>
apparent good or evil followed either course,<br/>
abandoned all confidence in the doctrine of<br/>
a living and Almighty God. I would reply<br/>
that there may be a few such characters in<br/>
Europe, and I suspect here and there one in<br/>
Siam,—a most genial atmosphere for breath-<br/>
ing such sentiments. But that there are<br/>
large bodies of such infidels now in Eu-<br/>
rope, I think is a great mistake. But if it<br/>
be true that there are very many in Europe,<br/>
who have made such an experiment as my<br/>
friend has head they made, would he pro-<br/>
nounce that a fair trial of the great ques-<br/>
tion, whether there be or be not a divine<br/>
author of religion-—any Almighty maker<br/>
and sustainer of the worlds? And if there be<br/>
such a God, would my friend think it at<br/>
all suitable or prper tht he should answer<br/>
in mercy such prayers and praises, proceed-<br/>
ing from hearts of sheer selfishness, and<br/>
wrangling with enmity against him!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But, my friend may ask, why, if there was<br/>
in truth an Almight God, who saw the<br/>
enmity and mockery, did he not come out<br/>
against them at once with his judgments,<br/>
and show them and the world that he is?<br/>
My answer would be that our God delight-<br/>
eth in mercy, and hence bears long with<br/>
those who revile and reject him "not will-<br/>
ing that any should perish, but that all<br/>
should come to repentance" and accept of<br/>
salvation by Christ Jesus; and hence he<br/>
prolongs the season of their probation. But<br/>
he has said that his "Spirit shall not always<br/>
strive with man" When it ceaseth to strive<br/>
with those who reject him, then will his<br/>
judgments overtake them, as in the days<br/>
of Noah; if not in this world, it will in<br/>
the future world of everlasting retribution.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has occurred to me, that my Buddhist<br/>
friend possibly has in his mind that time in<br/>
France 70 years since, when Robespierre and<br/>
his associates, assuming supreme power over<br/>
the land, abandoned all religious worship, de-<br/>
claring that there is no God, and hence no<br/>
religion that man is bound to respect. But<br/>
what was the consequence of that inaugur-<br/>
ation of atheism? Why, it was most terrific.<br/>
The rule of Robespierre and his party has<br/>
hence ever since been most fitly denomini-<br/>
nated.— The reign of terror. It did in-<br/>
deed appear as if God in righteous Judg-<br/>
ment poured out upon all classes, the spirit<br/>
of terror. The rulers could not trust one<br/>
another. The people could not trust their<br/>
leaders, nor even their own friends or re-<br/>
latives. Envy, jealousy, suspicion, murder<br/>
swept over the land like legions of devils<br/>
let loose from the bottomless pit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At length, however, the people, coming<br/>
to their senses, saw that their country and<br/>
themselves with it were drifting rapidly to<br/>
destruction on the flood of atheism, and<br/>
that the judgments of a righteous God were<br/>
out after them for adopting atheism as their<br/>
creed. They rose en masse against Robes-<br/>
pierre and put him to death, and returned<br/>
to the belief and worship of Jehovah and<br/>
Jesus Christ our Lord. From that day to<br/>
this France has been a christian nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again my Buddhist friend begs leave to<br/>
differ with me as to the causes of England's<br/>
prosperity. I had in my previous reply to<br/>
him attributed it to the Bible, citing the<br/>
answer of Queen Victoria to the heathen<br/>
prince. But my friend says that, "England<br/>
has prospered because she has given birth<br/>
to many good and wise men, and because<br/>
she has had an excellent copy of customs<br/>
and laws, and her sons have followed right-<br/>
eousness, and that for these reasons Eng-<br/>
land has become a great nation"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I most readily grant that my friend is<br/>
quite correct in attributing England's great-<br/>
ness to these causes. But will he allow me to<br/>
ask him, How England came by so many<br/>
good and wise men? Is not her present excel-<br/>
lent Queen right in believing that the Bible<br/>
made them? How came England by such<br/>
an excellent copy of customs and Laws?<br/>
Did she did not get it from the Bible? And<br/>
how happened it that her sons have so<br/>
many of them followed righteousness? Is it<br/>
not because they had been thoroughly<br/>
educated in the principles of the Bible? I<br/>
affirm that such are the true and most<br/>
legitimate reasons for England's present<br/>
greatness, and I challenge my friend and<br/>
the whole world to disprove it. But I feel<br/>
quite pleased! that he has come so near to<br/>
my way of thinking. A few more conces-<br/>
sions, with the heart united, and he will be<br/>
a real Christian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to the last question my friend<br/>
has propounded I have only time to say,<br/>
that our God has never made it a principle<br/>
in his government to bestow worldly<br/>
prosperity upon his people equally. He<br/>
oftentimes judges it best to try those whom<br/>
he loves with great worldly adversity, that<br/>
they may become partakers of his holiness<br/>
even as gold is tried in the fire to make it<br/>
pure. The Lord Jesus taught this in the<br/>
parable of the rich man and Lazarus. But<br/>
God will in due time bless his people most<br/>
abundantly in heaven. The blessing is only<br/>
postponed a little that the heirs of it may<br/>
become all the better prepared to enjoy it,<br/>
even as a rich and loving earthly father will<br/>
until his son is of age, well trained and<br/>
well prepared, and then he will confer upon<br/>
him a large estate. As it is with indi-<br/>
viduals, so it is with nations, of which we<br/>
have an example in the Israelites when tried<br/>
in the wilderness 40 years, after which they<br/>
entered Canaan, and became much enlarged.<br/>
And then after this they were under the<br/>
training of divine providence five hundred<br/>
years until David and Solomon, when the<br/>
nation became very great. And we have an<br/>
apt illustration of this long training of<br/>
nations in the English people for a period<br/>
of 1000 years until they became a great<br/>
and powerful nation. There is no nation<br/>
in Europe that has been so thoroughly a<br/>
christian nation as England. And no Euro-<br/>
pean nation equals her in extent of<br/>
territory, riches, learning, and power.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_6_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dr. Livingstone on Afr. Missions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The evidence of Dr. Livingstone, the<br/>
explorer, before the Select Committee on<br/>
Western Africa, which has just been pub-<br/>
lished in England, is entirely contrary to<br/>
that of Capt. Burton as to the results of<br/>
missions. The doctor was asked whether<br/>
he thought it possible that an English<br/>
government should be established in the<br/>
neighborhood of twenty or thirty different<br/>
tribes, and not interfere in their quarrels?<br/>
His reply was, "I think so. The mission-<br/>
aries whom I have known generally make<br/>
it clearly understood they will not inter-<br/>
fere in the protection of the country; they<br/>
are looked upon as part of the superior<br/>
power, and they are not appealed to."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other questions and answers are as fol-<br/>
lows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. In the case of Lagos and Abbeokuta,<br/>
have the missionaries practically kept out<br/>
of the native quarrels? A. I am not acquaint-<br/>
ed with Lagos.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q What is your opinion generally of the<br/>
character and influence of the missionaries<br/>
in Africa? A. I entertain a very high<br/>
opinion of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Do you allude to any particular part<br/>
of Africa? A. I know them better in the<br/>
interior of the south, and in Sierra Leone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Taking Sierra Leone, what should<br/>
you say has been the influence of the mis-<br/>
sionaries there? A. I think it has been very<br/>
beneficial, both to the natives and to the<br/>
English.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q What has it done for the natives, in<br/>
the first place?  A. The missionaries always<br/>
promote trade.  Some of them think they<br/>
ought not to attempt the civilization<br/>
of the people, and others think that they<br/>
ought; but wherever I have seen a mission<br/>
established, that mission promotes civiliza-<br/>
tion and commerce, whether the mission-<br/>
ary professes to be anxious to promote<br/>
civilization or not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Baxter:  You mean promoting civili-<br/>
zation by teaching industrial employment?<br/>
A. Yes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chairman: The Committee have<br/>
heard of two systems of missionary work<br/>
in Africa; one which adopts education and<br/>
preaching at its means of action, and one<br/>
which seems to have been carried on to a<br/>
great extent on the Gold Coast by the<br/>
Swiss missionaries, and into which agricul-<br/>
tural and industrial training largely enter.<br/>
To which system do you chiefly allude? A.<br/>
One body of missionaries adopts industrial<br/>
pursuits chiefly, but they never confine<br/>
themselves to these. The other professes<br/>
to be anxious only to preach the Gospel,<br/>
but their influence is directed also to pro-<br/>
mote the civilization of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Even though it is not connected with<br/>
any industrial pursuits? A. Even though it<br/>
is not connected with any industrial pur-<br/>
suits. One way in which they do that is<br/>
by their example; they show an example<br/>
of industry, and in that way promote civili-<br/>
zation without professing to be industrial<br/>
missionaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Do you believe that the missionaries<br/>
have ever such a command of the local<br/>
language as to be able to preach intelligibly<br/>
to the natives? A. I know many who speak<br/>
the language thoroughly—far better than<br/>
any natives who have been born in the<br/>
mission. Mr. Moffatt has been out there<br/>
for fifty years, and he knows it thoroughly;<br/>
he has translated all the Bible into their<br/>
language; he knows it beter than any native<br/>
born on the station.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Chichester Fortescue: Which of the<br/>
native languages are you alluding to? A.<br/>
The Siehnami.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chairman: The Committee have<br/>
heard great doubts expressed with regard<br/>
to the influence of the missionaries in Sierra<br/>
Leone upon the native character, and we<br/>
have had evidence that the natives educated<br/>
in the mission schools are generally dis-<br/>
liked; can you account for that prejudice or<br/>
that opinion in any way? A. It is very<br/>
common to hear apprehension cast on the<br/>
character of the missionaries; but I account<br/>
for it in this way. The lives of these men<br/>
generally are a protest against the evil<br/>
conduct of many of the men who go out<br/>
to trade there; I do not wish to say that<br/>
there are not good men among the traders.<br/>
but a very large proportion of them are<br/>
worthless, and the lives of those mission-<br/>
aries are a sort of standing protest against<br/>
the moral conduct of the traders. Mr.<br/>
Moffat has been laboring with great success<br/>
in one tribe for forty-three years, and he is<br/>
exceedingly annoyed by several of the<br/>
traders who have settled on the spot, and<br/>
who have attempted to nullify all his teach-<br/>
ing, corrupting the natives by their con-<br/>
duct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Is the character of the missionaries<br/>
themselves high and unexceptionable? A.<br/>
You find a few among them who are not<br/>
men of great ability; some of them have<br/>
been guilty of improper conduct; but take<br/>
them as a whole, I think they deserve a<br/>
very high character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q. Should you say that their character is<br/>
improving and that the class of men sent<br/>
out as missionaries is higher than it used<br/>
to be? A. When the missionaries were<br/>
sent out fifty years ago it was believed by<br/>
many men that any sort of man who could<br/>
read his Bible and make a wheelbarrow<br/>
was sufficient; but it was found that was<br/>
a mistake, and the more care is taken in<br/>
their selection the more satisfactory are the<br/>
results.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
School-Room Exercise.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"John, bound the State of Matrimony."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The State of Matrimony is bounded on<br/>
the North by Solitude, on the East by<br/>
Double Trouble, on the South by Sore-<br/>
spots, and the West by Vexation."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What are its chief products?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Peevish babies, scolding wives, hen-<br/>
pecked husbands, smoked coffee, burnt<br/>
hams, and sour pies."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What is said of its climate?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is more varied in its temperature<br/>
than any other State in existence. In that<br/>
portion of it called the Honeymoon, the<br/>
climate is salubrious and healthy-—the at-<br/>
mosphere laden with the sweets of the<br/>
flowers of Hymen. In some parts the in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
habitants experience a freezing cold recep-<br/>
tion when they expect most warmth, and<br/>
in some other parts, there is all the burning<br/>
sensation of the Torrid Zone. Sometimes<br/>
a fellow's horse in the State of Matrimony<br/>
gets to hot to hold him, and, strange to<br/>
say, he travels with all speed, not to but<br/>
from the poles, where cool is generally<br/>
supposed to exist.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Sarah, has John given a correct outline<br/>
of the State of Matrimony?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Can't say, Sir-—never was in that State.<br/>
Bill Simpkins gave me an invitation the<br/>
other day to travel in it with him, and<br/>
when I return I'll answer the question."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, Sarah, as you seem to be ignor-<br/>
ant in geography, I will examine you in<br/>
grammar. Take the sentence. 'Marriage is a<br/>
civil contract.' Parse marriage."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Marriage is a noun, because it's a name.<br/>
And though Shakespeare asks what's in a<br/>
name; and says a rose by any other name<br/>
would smell as sweet, yet marriage being<br/>
a noun, and therefore a name, shows that<br/>
the rule established by the Bard of Avon<br/>
has at least one exception. For marriage,<br/>
certainly, is of very great importance, and<br/>
being a noun, and therefore a name, ergo<br/>
there is something in a name."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Good! Well, what is the case of mar<br/>
riage?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Don't know, sir..."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Decline it, and see..."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Don't feel at liberty to decline marriage<br/>
after having made Bill the promise I have.<br/>
Had rather conjugate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Jane, can you tell Sarah in what case<br/>
marriage is?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, sir, it's a very common case, and<br/>
I would not care if it were a little com-<br/>
moner.  And I suppose Sarah won't be<br/>
married a week before it's in the printer's<br/>
case?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Can you decline marriage!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jane blushed extremely, and answered:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Had rather not, sir."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, Sarah, what person is marriage!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Second person, sir, because the person you<br/>
speak to is the one who is going to<br/>
marry."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
U. S. CONSULAR COURT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Siam Dec. 14th 1865.
Wm. Burdon Brooklyn N. Y. Vs.
John Hassett Chandler.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Court after carefully examining<br/>
all the proofs and vouchers presented, and<br/>
after due deliberation upon them, find that<br/>
John Hassett Chandler, is indebted to<br/>
Wm. Burdon ($13,010 62c) thirteen<br/>
thousand, and ten dollars and sixty two<br/>
cents, and the costs of the court. In this<br/>
decision the Assessors fully concur.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the most difficult case, and in-<br/>
volving the most, of any yet tried in Bang-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
kok. it is one 100 of long standing, hav-<br/>
ing been outhand since 1857, and one in<br/>
which the whole community have been<br/>
more or less interested.  From the charac-<br/>
ter of the Court, and the deliberation with<br/>
which they took up the proofs and vouch-<br/>
ers, there can be no doubt but the decision<br/>
is a just one.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Departures per "Chow Phya" on the<br/>
5th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. S. Mattoon Miss. en route to the<br/>
U. S. America. P. Leader Esq. Prussian<br/>
Consul, and family on a visit to China.<br/>
Mons. St. Cyr Jullien, on a visit to France,<br/>
and Messrs. J. Gunn and P. Sommes for<br/>
England.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A LAWYER'S LETTER.—-The following is<br/>
said to be a copy of a letter sent by a mem-<br/>
ber of the legal profession to a person who<br/>
was indebted to one of his clients:—-"Sir,<br/>
I am desired to apply to you for the sum<br/>
of twenty pounds due to my client, Mr.<br/>
Jones. If you send me the money by this<br/>
day week you will oblige me—-if not, I shall<br/>
oblige you."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I shall not be re-<br/>
sponsible for any debts contracted by the<br/>
crew of the Hamburg Barque "Esmeralde"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. J. DREWES.
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Dec. 1st 1865.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not be<br/>
responsible for any debts contracted<br/>
by the crew of the British Barque "George<br/>
Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t.f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_8_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r71">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r168">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Habercost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">343</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r49">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Pulsakie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do <span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r49">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Moonlight</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">444</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Matilda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">[..]orm</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r49">2?8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Baxtroph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Heidescomps</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Rynders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r49">789</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Heidescomps</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Rynder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">763</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Meeklong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Faithful</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Phillips</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r49">279</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Welcome</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Goodman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">399</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Francis Palmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Lamb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">225</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Am.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Day Break</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Oriole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jessen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">354</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Han.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Kolbodl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Yuthia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Duvavant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">251</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Fr.<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r175">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">British Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Kergil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Creole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hanover Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">334</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jessen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Day Break</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">M. Rose</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah'Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">198</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barrett</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">R. Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Emeralda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hamb. Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Drews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Macao</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ersteling</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">108</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Koch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Francis Palmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">American Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">235</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">J. Lamb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong äong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">467</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Mclean &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kenovole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">----</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">107</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Britisb Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Tait</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Captain Bush</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Welcome</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">399</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Goodman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">To Order</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Yuthia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">French Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">201</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Davanant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Schill Malherba</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jonathan to John Bull.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY JOHN G. LAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Tempora mutantur."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent3 >}}Dear John! I don't forget<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I am something in your debt<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For giving me many a ministerial slap;<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}But, perhaps, the recent news<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}May have modified your views—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Say, what do you think of it, now, old chap?<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Not many months ago,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}As you very well know,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Crowing hastily over each Federal mishap,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}You swore the rebel crew<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Would pat the Yankees through—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Well, what do you think of it, now, old chap!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Once, running our blockade.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Seemed a money-making trade,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Spite of many a magnificent Monitor trap;<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Bet when you count the cost<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Of your ships and cargoes lost—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Say, what do you think of't, now, old chap?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And how you used to mock<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}At our solid Union stock;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And then-—to replenish your treasury's gap—-<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Took the cotton bounds at par,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}(Like a donkey, as you are!)<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Well, what do you think of 'em, now, old chap!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Once, the "honor" of the south<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Was forever in your mouth,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As oft as you viewed the American map;<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}But since "cavalier" you see<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}With "assassin" to agree—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Say, what do you think of it, now, old chap?<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Ah! John—-that little debt—<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}We will make it even yet,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By giving your gouty old knuckles a rap;<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And when that job is done,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}We'll have no occasion, John,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To ask what you think of us, now, old chap.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cure of The Drunkard.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man, long noted for intemperate hab-<br/>
it, was induced by Rev. John Abbott to<br/>
sign the pledge "in his own way," which<br/>
he did in these words: "I pledge myself<br/>
to drink no more intoxicating drinks for<br/>
one year." Few believed he could keep<br/>
it, but near the end of the year he again<br/>
appeared at a temperance meeting, without<br/>
having once touched a drop. "Are you<br/>
not going to sign again?" asked Mr. Abbott.<br/>
"Yes," replied he, "if I can do it in my<br/>
own way" and accordingly, he wrote, "I<br/>
sign this pledge for nine hundred and<br/>
ninety-nine years; and if I live to that time,<br/>
I intend to take out life lease!" A few<br/>
days after he called upon the tavern-keeper,<br/>
who welcomed him back to his old haunt.<br/>
"Oh! landlord," said he, as if in pain, "I<br/>
have such a lump on my side!" "That's<br/>
because you've stopped drinking," said the<br/>
landlord, "you won't live long if you keep<br/>
on." "Will drink take the lump away?"<br/>
"Yes, and if you don't, you'll soon have a<br/>
lump on the other side. Come, let's drink<br/>
together," and he poured out two glasses<br/>
of whisky. "I guess I won't drink," said<br/>
inebriate, "especially if keeping the pledge<br/>
will bring another lump, for it isn't very<br/>
hard to bear, after all; and with this he<br/>
drew the lump, a roll of greenbacks, from<br/>
his side pocket, and walked off, leaving the<br/>
landlord to his reflections.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-16_8_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A Spaniard and a German held debate<br/>
over the relative smartness of the different<br/>
nations of the world. "I," said the Span-<br/>
iard, "can take an egg from under a sitting<br/>
bird without disturbing her." "Do that,"<br/>
said the German, "and I will let you see<br/>
what I can do." So they went into the<br/>
wood and searched till they had found a<br/>
tree with a bird's nest near the top of it.<br/>
The Spaniard took off his sword, and belt,<br/>
and spurs, his rustling silk mantle, and his<br/>
cap and plumes, laid them at the foot of<br/>
the tree, and began noiselessly to mount.<br/>
While he was intent on getting at the nest<br/>
the German walked off with the Spaniard's<br/>
arms and cap, and cloak and feathers. It<br/>
was decreed, therefore, that the German<br/>
was the smarter fellow.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
