---
linkTitle: 'August 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 1st'
date: 2025-09-24T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 14
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK TUESDAY AUGUST 1ST 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 14</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok August 1st.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are in a better condition now to en-<br/>
dure the irregularity of our mails, than we<br/>
were some moiths ago. The apparently<br/>
quiet state of Europe and America relieves<br/>
to a great extent that constant anxiety<br/>
which formerly existed, as to what would<br/>
transpire next in the Western World. The<br/>
great civil war in the United States is at an<br/>
end, and except the little breezes excited<br/>
in France by the speech of Prince Napoleon,<br/>
and the news from Mexico, Europe is also<br/>
quiet. True there are some questions pend-<br/>
ing, the settlement of which will probably<br/>
cause more or less discussions. Indeed the<br/>
discussion has already commenced. The<br/>
demand either has, or is about to be renew-<br/>
ed by the Federal Government, for indem-<br/>
nity from the English Government on ac-<br/>
count of the Alabama and other privateers<br/>
fitted out in English ports. Some of the<br/>
English papers talk rather warlike, and<br/>
speak of an alliance between England and<br/>
France-the two great Western powers of<br/>
Europe, to preserve the peace of the world.<br/>
Much of this of course is merely talk,<br/>
The privateer business must be settled up,<br/>
a precedent of some kind must be establish-<br/>
ed. When the demand was first made by the<br/>
United States government, Secretavy<br/>
Seward said, they were willing to defer the<br/>
discussion of the matter until both parties<br/>
could do it more calmly, than at that time,<br/>
and he also expressed a willingness to have<br/>
it settled by arbitration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although the Federal Government will<br/>
probably never be better prepared for a<br/>
foreign war than at present, yet she will<br/>
think several times before going to war for<br/>
a few millions indemnity. Her whole<br/>
course too, since she has considered the re-<br/>
bellion subdued, shows that the government<br/>
does not contemplate a foreign war. She<br/>
has reduced in every possible way her mili-<br/>
tary establishments to a peace footing.<br/>
England too will think several times before<br/>
going to war at present even in alliance with<br/>
France. We believe with Beecher that the<br/>
United States is the "most dangerous pow-<br/>
er in the world and at the same-time least<br/>
to be feared," we believe that she is capable<br/>
to day of resisting successfully an alliance<br/>
of the two great powers of Europe. As to<br/>
affairs in Mexico it is very probable that<br/>
six months after date will not find the Arch-<br/>
duke in that countr?, but the United States<br/>
we think, will not contribute to that event.<br/>
at least in such a way as to endanger her<br/>
relations with France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The question in the United States now<br/>
appears to be "what is to be done with the<br/>
negro." This question may again endanger<br/>
the peace of the country. There are always<br/>
those who are never satisfied. The desire was<br/>
emancipation, and now when emancipa-<br/>
tion has come there still is a cry in some<br/>
quarters to place at once the ballot box in<br/>
the hands of the freedmen. This however<br/>
will meet with very general opposition<br/>
throughout the North. President Johnston<br/>
talks sensibly when he says he hopes to see<br/>
them all happily settled in a country of<br/>
their own. This is a quest¡on however<br/>
which will require great wisdom and dis-<br/>
cretion to settle. It would be madness to<br/>
place the ballot box in the hands of the<br/>
negro in his present ignorant condition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In China the rebellion still continues and<br/>
the insurgents have gained another ad-<br/>
vantage. Chefoou-shein the birthplace of<br/>
Confucius in the province of Shantung has<br/>
been taken, and sacked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What we want most in Siam in a business<br/>
point of view is business—and business too<br/>
that will pay. The next crop is looked for-<br/>
ward to with much anxiety, but of course<br/>
little can be known about it. Here we have<br/>
certainly not had as much rain as we usual-<br/>
ly have in this month, but reports from<br/>
other portions of the country are encourag-<br/>
ing. In the province of Petchaburee the<br/>
season is very promising. We have also<br/>
seen two Europeans just returned from a<br/>
tour up the Banpakong and who bring fa-<br/>
vorable reports from that quarter. But even<br/>
if the crop should be good the prices in<br/>
the China market are such, as to cast a shade<br/>
over the business prospects here for some<br/>
time to come.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Generals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 126)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vicksburg paved the way for higher ad-<br/>
vancement.  Rosecrans had failed at Chica-<br/>
manga, and was removed.  A new and larger<br/>
department was formed called the depart-<br/>
ment of the Mississippi, and given to Grant.<br/>
As soon as possible he hastened to the field.<br/>
Jeff. Davis, supposing the Union army una-<br/>
ble to advance soon, had ordered Long-<br/>
street to leave Bragg's army and go to<br/>
Knoxville Tennessee, and attack Burnside.<br/>
Grant saw that it was his time to move and<br/>
ordered an advance.  The rebel army was<br/>
consequently driven from its strong holds<br/>
on Missionary Ridge, and Lookout Moun-<br/>
tain, and the battle ended in the perfect rout<br/>
of the rebels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A motion was soon introduced into con-<br/>
gress renewing the rank of Lieutenant Gen-<br/>
eral and conferring that rank upon U. S.<br/>
Grant. That rank had never been previously<br/>
conferred upon any one except Washing-<br/>
ton, Gen. Scott held it only by brevet. It<br/>
constitutes the person upon whom it is con-<br/>
ferred, General-in-chief of the armies of the<br/>
United States. Grant was accordingly called<br/>
to Washington. Taking with him his<br/>
little son he started for the Capital, and<br/>
soon after arriving at Willard's Hotel he<br/>
was recognized when about to take his seat<br/>
at the table, and the several hundred guests<br/>
arose and cheered him. Ladies waved their<br/>
kerchiefs and all hands were extended. The<br/>
President placed in his hands his commis-<br/>
sion as Lieutenant General, and he hastened<br/>
at once to the front. Whilst at Washing-<br/>
ton he had to pass through one of the Pres-<br/>
ident's levees, at which he out-shone "Old<br/>
Abe" himself, but he remarked to some<br/>
one that he hoped to get away from Wash-<br/>
ington as soon as possible as he was tired<br/>
of "this show business." He at once a-<br/>
bandoned the old anaconda plan of con-<br/>
ducting the war, and abandoning also many<br/>
places of minor importance, he massed his<br/>
forces for a vigorous campaign. To Sher-<br/>
man he committed the department of the<br/>
Mississippi, with Atlanta as the goal, whilst<br/>
he himself hastened to prosecute the cam-<br/>
paign in Virginia. He no sooner reached<br/>
the front than he showed as usual his work-<br/>
ing propensities. About 22d of February<br/>
Washington's birth day, a large ball room<br/>
was erected near Gen. Warren's head quar-<br/>
ters, and was thronged with dancers. Ladies<br/>
from a distance were delighted with the<br/>
soldierly frolic, and some of them approach-<br/>
ed Gen. Grant on the subject expressing<br/>
the hope, that there would be another soon<br/>
in the army of the Potomac. Gen. Grant<br/>
replied that if another were attempted, he<br/>
should consider it his duty to stop it, by a<br/>
special order, and that it was no time for<br/>
music and dancing. Gen. Grant is op-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Shortly after arriving at the front and<br/>
whilst looking over his new field, near Cul-<br/>
peper Court House his head quarters, in a<br/>
drizzling rain and attended only by his or-<br/>
derly, a carriage approached. It was drawn<br/>
by fine horses and attendants escorted it.<br/>
When near Gen. Grant, the driver reined<br/>
up and the door opened and out sprang a<br/>
dashing officer. He enquired if the drip-<br/>
ping little man in his presence were Gen.<br/>
Grant. The latter replied in the affirmative.<br/>
The officer said he wished to see the General<br/>
on business. "Come walk with me" an-<br/>
swered Grant. "There was no other alterna-<br/>
tive and the highly polished boots of the<br/>
officer had to go into the mud, and his gay<br/>
uniform and plumage were soon beaten<br/>
down and soaked with rain. The officer<br/>
was thus introduced to the new order of<br/>
things about to be carred out in the army<br/>
of the Potomac.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Galena neighbor of Grant's visited<br/>
New York about this time, and was utterly<br/>
confounded at the sudden growth of his<br/>
neighbor, the tanner. He said when at<br/>
home nobody considered Grant a "great<br/>
man." He seldom talked, asked no advice,<br/>
and gave none to any one, but minded his<br/>
own business and always did what he a-<br/>
greed to do at the time." May 3d 1864<br/>
Gen. Grant issued his orders to march.<br/>
Scarcely had he crossed the Rapidan than<br/>
he was confronted by Lee's whole army at<br/>
the "Wilderness," a portion of land cover-<br/>
ed with scrub oak bushes, deep gullies, and<br/>
swamps. Sheridan had been sent out with<br/>
his cavalry to feel the way. Soon a dis-<br/>
patch came to Gen. Meade who opened the<br/>
seal and read it and turning to Grant said<br/>
"Lee intends to fight us here." Grant<br/>
coolly replied "very well."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The strife soon commenced and after six<br/>
days of the most severe fighting the world<br/>
has ever known, the enemy were obliged to<br/>
full back to the strong works at Spotsylva-<br/>
nia. The losses were very great on both<br/>
sides but the advantage was greatly in favor<br/>
of the Federals. Gen. Grant perceiving that<br/>
the present position was too strong to be<br/>
taken without fearful sacrifice of life, com-<br/>
menced that series of flank movements by<br/>
which he threw his army to the south side<br/>
of the James River, and eventually across<br/>
the Weldon Railroad south of Petersburg.<br/>
Gen. Lee realized immediately the import-<br/>
ance of the position which Grant had gain-<br/>
ed, and made every effort to cause him to<br/>
release his hold. He attacked Grant's lines<br/>
wherever he supposed they were weakest<br/>
He then dispatched Early with 30,000 men<br/>
to invade Maryland, and Pennsylvania,<br/>
and to threaten Washington, thinking<br/>
Grant would ruin the seige and go to the<br/>
rescue of Washington, but he was mistaken<br/>
in his man. Grant did not relax his hold<br/>
in the least, nor give up a mile that he had<br/>
gained, and his remarks to some one about<br/>
that time were characteristic of him, that<br/>
he "would not release his hold upon Rich-<br/>
mond if Washington, Philadelphia, and<br/>
New York were laid in ashes." In about<br/>
eleven months after he commenced his Vir-<br/>
ginia campaign he had taken Richmond,<br/>
and the army of Gen. Lee. Those last three<br/>
days fighting, the evacuation of Richmond,<br/>
and the pursuit and capture of Lee are<br/>
familiar to all. By his orders too, Sherman<br/>
had left Atlanta in his rear, and marched<br/>
across the great state of Georgia to Savannah<br/>
and taken it, and thence to Charleston the<br/>
birth place of treason, and rebellion, and<br/>
found it evacuated, and thence to Columbia,<br/>
and thence to North Carolina, where he re-<br/>
ceived the surrender of Gen. Johnston, and<br/>
the only remaining rebel force of any ac-<br/>
count east of the Mississippi, and virtually<br/>
ended the great rebellion. To Gen. Grant<br/>
more than any other man is the United States<br/>
indebted for the subduing of that rebellion.<br/>
We think that it may be justly said that<br/>
has been oftener under fire and won more<br/>
Victories than any man living.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chieng Mai Trip
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 74)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—More than two months<br/>
have passed since you had the promise of<br/>
a closing article on the Laos tour. It has<br/>
been so long now, that were it not for ful-<br/>
filling the promise I would let it pass. I<br/>
must do it now however, even though<br/>
your readers might more readily forgive its<br/>
breach than its fulfilment. Our narrative<br/>
was brought down to our departure from<br/>
Chieng Mai. Chow Rat-bokee was very<br/>
punctual for a native official in getting us<br/>
off. Our letter to him called for elephant<br/>
boats, or men, or whatever we might require.<br/>
We chose the river route on our return for<br/>
the same reason in part, that we preferred<br/>
the overland in going, as we could return<br/>
sooner than on elephants. In addition to<br/>
this we wished to see much of the coun-<br/>
try as we could, and particularly the famous<br/>
rapids, of which we had been told by the<br/>
natives, who said that no foriegners had ever<br/>
passed them. It would have been the<br/>
prince's preference to have sent us back the<br/>
way we had come. He would then have<br/>
had to send us only to Lampoon one day's<br/>
journey, while in the latter case he had to<br/>
send us with a boat all the way to Ráhààng<br/>
where our own was left. But I should say<br/>
however, in justice to him, that this prefer-<br/>
ence for the other route did not seem to be<br/>
from a desire to shirk responsibility off on<br/>
other shoulders, but because they were<br/>
more accustomed to use elephants than<br/>
boats, and there was probably less risk of<br/>
an accident. This is evident because he<br/>
offered to send us a north east route via<br/>
Muang Phros and Muang Nan, and other<br/>
towns across to the east or Pitsanulok fork.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That would, I suppose, have been on some<br/>
accounts the grandest route of the whole,<br/>
and the offer was very tempting. But we<br/>
had other attractions to lead us to the<br/>
shortest way homeward, though I would<br/>
suggest the other, to the consideration of<br/>
any one who wished to return leisurely<br/>
from Chieng Mai to Bangkok. Going in<br/>
this way with a letter from each governor<br/>
and an escort of as many elephants and<br/>
guides as might be desired, it would be<br/>
perfectly safe, though a white man had<br/>
never touched a foot of the road before.<br/>
But we resisted the temptation of seeing<br/>
the northern Laos towns, and nearing the<br/>
borders of Thibet, and the Haw tribes of<br/>
China, by several degrees, which would<br/>
have taken about a month, for the nearest<br/>
and quickest way home. And surely we<br/>
had no reason to rue our bargain. True our<br/>
quarters were about as narrow as possible<br/>
into which a human being could be com-<br/>
pressed. Imagine a boat thirty feet in<br/>
length and about two in breadth. Over<br/>
about sixteen feet in the middle was a cover<br/>
rudely made, by bending over the split<br/>
bamboos for ribs, covered by the large<br/>
leaves of the celebrated teak. This cover<br/>
was just high enough to allow us to sit<br/>
upright. It was long enough too, for my<br/>
companion and I, each to have a bed at the<br/>
end where we could have a little air at<br/>
night, and to hold our little baggage be-<br/>
tween us. The remainder was deck where<br/>
our men at to paddle, and which also af-<br/>
forded as a seat during the day shaded by<br/>
our umbrellas. In this little craft, the best<br/>
for swiftness, which reconciled us to its in-<br/>
conveniences, we were to make our home<br/>
for the next ten days, and pass down the<br/>
rapids where we had sometimes to go with<br/>
incredible speed within six inches of huge<br/>
stones, and that too where the bed of the<br/>
river was so narrow and crooked, that our<br/>
long boat could just clear them on either<br/>
side in time to turn down the stream with-<br/>
out danger.  I have no doubt that in reality<br/>
it was much more fright ful and dangerous<br/>
than the celebrated Scylla and Charybdis,<br/>
over which our youthful blood used to<br/>
shudder in our school boy days. While<br/>
on the subject of the boat I may as well<br/>
anticipate another remark, that in passing<br/>
the lower and worst rapids we had a kind<br/>
of raft of several bamboos attached to the<br/>
boat on each side, which served alike to<br/>
impede its progress and to keep it steady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had a letter from the authorities at<br/>
Chieng Mai, to the head men of the nearest<br/>
villages, to furnish us with guides whose<br/>
business it is to conduct boats down those<br/>
Käangs, as they are called by the Siamese<br/>
and Laos. We thus had the satisfaction of<br/>
knowing that our guides were skilled in<br/>
their work. They were stalwart men, and<br/>
held a steady hand, and withal knew that<br/>
their own lives would probably be the for-<br/>
feit for any serious accident that might<br/>
happen to us, even should they escape the<br/>
same catastrophe which would not be at<br/>
all probable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Wednesday evening till Saturday<br/>
noon we had nothing of special interest.<br/>
The river in that portion presents very<br/>
much the same appearance that most of the<br/>
Siamese rivers do, except that mountains<br/>
were to be seen some distance off a consid-<br/>
erable portion of the way. On Saturday<br/>
at noon we came to the nearest village<br/>
above the Kaangs, where we were to get<br/>
our guides. By urging our cause a little<br/>
we had but a short delay, as we were anx-<br/>
ious to get beyond the first five rapids to<br/>
Ban K'âw, the next village where we were<br/>
to get new guides and spend the sabbath.<br/>
We left about 2 P. M. on tiptoe with expec-<br/>
tation, but half fearing that we might after<br/>
all be disappointed. Very soon however<br/>
the mountain ranges on each side began<br/>
to draw towards the river, and we began<br/>
to believe that we might have some rapids<br/>
or waterfalls, or some other violent erup-<br/>
tions or effort of nature, to make an egress<br/>
from our river and a road for ourselves.<br/>
And it is just where the mountains on each<br/>
side came down to the river that the first<br/>
one occurs. This was also true of many of<br/>
the subsequent ones, they often occurred<br/>
where the sudden turn in the mountain<br/>
chain, made a corresponding bend in the riv-<br/>
er, though this was not a universal rule, the<br/>
largest and longest of all being where<br/>
the river was comparatively straight. I<br/>
might as well remark here too, that both<br/>
their length and the distance intervening<br/>
between them, and the fall of water in each,<br/>
are very irregular. Sometimes, especially<br/>
in the upper ones, they would not be more<br/>
than one or two hundre?l yards in length.<br/>
It would be an interesting field for the en-<br/>
gineer to ascertain the whole fall of the<br/>
river, as well as of the rapids. We made<br/>
our distance to Ban K'âw, reaching there<br/>
about dusk, where we spent a Sabbath, quiet<br/>
enough for the most retiring, and romantic<br/>
enough for any of the most ardent admirers<br/>
of the beautiful works of nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Monday morning, we were off again,<br/>
but no longer unbelieving as to the beauty<br/>
and grandeur of the scenery which now<br/>
opened up to our view at every step. It<br/>
seemed to be a constant struggle between<br/>
beauty and grandeur, sometimes the one<br/>
and then the other prevailing, and often<br/>
both combined. It is for the most part<br/>
however a scene of everchanging beauty.<br/>
The river winds its way along between the<br/>
mountains which ascend perpendicularly<br/>
from one bank, the other ascending up in<br/>
amphitheatrical order. Sometimes, though<br/>
rarely, the ascent is gradual on both sides,<br/>
while in one place, the grandest of all, it is<br/>
perpendicular from both. Whence have<br/>
we come, and whither are we going? it is<br/>
the natural exclamation, as we find ourselves<br/>
shut in at every bend by mountains from<br/>
which there seems to be no possibility of<br/>
escape.  The river is peculiarly winding,<br/>
and this makes the almost endless variety,<br/>
as one phase after another passes in panor-<br/>
amic view before us.  Seldom can we see<br/>
more then a quarter of a mile of the scen-<br/>
ery at a time.  On each side the river is<br/>
hemmed in by banks of solid stone, rising<br/>
in the form of the mountain already des-<br/>
cribed.  That round mountain just behind<br/>
us was a few moments since our river<br/>
bank, and just before us, completely shut-<br/>
ting up our way is the one that will soon<br/>
become so, though whether on the right or<br/>
the left it is yet impossible to tell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the anxious look firmly grasp-<br/>
ed our, and fixed determination of the<br/>
guides, as well as the roaring sound in the<br/>
distance before us, we knew that we were<br/>
approaching another rapid.  When the<br/>
storm is raging it is no time to catechise<br/>
the captain; and when nearing the rapids,<br/>
leave the pilot to his own musings.  Even<br/>
he feels that it is a serious matter, every<br/>
one for a few moments partake of his so-<br/>
lemnity.  Not a word is spoken except by<br/>
the pilot who simply gives in monosyllables<br/>
his orders, to "let out strength" on the<br/>
right or the left.  As he draws near the<br/>
scene he speaks in a louder and a quicker<br/>
tone, the oars are raised in unison till in<br/>
the midst of the water-fall every one seems<br/>
to be laying on for a death struggle as if all<br/>
depended on his strength.  The waves for<br/>
a few moments dash against the boat, and<br/>
now we are passed another in safety. A<br/>
general taking of breath is the signal that we<br/>
are out of danger, an I may again look at<br/>
the beautiful veins running through the<br/>
mountain rock on our left, with its stylac-<br/>
tites hanging down in its crevices, the fascin-<br/>
ation of ages, and also on the gently slop-<br/>
ing ascent to the right covered with its<br/>
beautiful green Mei Ruak.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sun has long gone down behind the<br/>
western mountains, and the heavy shades<br/>
of evening have long fallen on the river,<br/>
and all the mountains except the topmost<br/>
portion of the eastern ridge where, his rays<br/>
still linger, making quite a contrast with the<br/>
sombre hue below.  It is Monday evening<br/>
as we still pass along, humming the Cana-<br/>
dian boatman's song.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Row boatmen row.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The stream runs fast;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The rapids are near,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the daylight is passed."<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Our men are evidently making prepara-<br/>
tions to stop on yonder sand bank, in time<br/>
to give us a few moments to gather a few<br/>
specimens of the rocks and climb up a small<br/>
knoll on the mountain.  But it is too late<br/>
to enjoy the scenery, or to shoot a deer, or<br/>
a wild peacock, that runs off at the approach<br/>
of man.  We soon take the travelers sim-<br/>
ple fare and try to compose our excited<br/>
minds to sleep.  The visions of the day<br/>
however haunt us, till long after our weary<br/>
boatmen are fast asleep. Our own frame<br/>
at length gives way to gentle slumber, and<br/>
visions of the fairy land through which we<br/>
passed, combined with those of home and<br/>
the loved ones left behind. But before the<br/>
leopard in the neighboring mountain had re-<br/>
tired to his lair, or the birds began to perch<br/>
on the trees and to sing their chorals, and<br/>
offer their morning song of praise to their<br/>
great Creator, we were up again ready for<br/>
another day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We started as soon as the disappearance<br/>
of the fog from the river rendered it safe<br/>
to do so. I need not repeat the incidents<br/>
of to-day except where they varied from<br/>
those of yesterday. One or two places how-<br/>
ever deserve a special notice. It is now<br/>
9¾ A. M. as we enter a place that defies all<br/>
my feeble powers of description. It is here<br/>
that the mountain rises on each side per-<br/>
pendicularly at least (000) six hundred feet,<br/>
a solid mass of stone. I say perpendicular-<br/>
ly. On the left this is literally true. In fact<br/>
in some places it so far projects over the<br/>
river, that the beautiful little cascade that<br/>
makes its way down its sides, the only<br/>
relic of what must be quite a stream during<br/>
the rains, falls over the boat on the other<br/>
side. The river is not more than 30 or 40<br/>
feet in width. One has an indescribable<br/>
feeling of awe as he passes through that<br/>
deep chasm, as if in some deserted street of<br/>
an old city built by giants of former ages,<br/>
but of which no trace remains. Or rather<br/>
he has a more lively perception than usual<br/>
of the infinite resources of Him who laid the<br/>
foundations of the earth like Tophat of old<br/>
"deep and large." The sun never appears<br/>
here till near noon and sets early in the<br/>
evening. The name of the place is "Pen<br/>
"Fa" which very appropriately means as-<br/>
cending the sky. The Kấấng below it was<br/>
unusually rapid, so that we had to get out<br/>
and walk across a bend while the boat was<br/>
let down by ropes. We had to do this<br/>
twice during the day. The 30th in num-<br/>
ber was the largest and straightest. It must<br/>
be near a mile in length. But just there the<br/>
river divides out into several channels so<br/>
that the current was not so swift. We<br/>
passed the last mountain just before dark<br/>
on Tuesday, when we had the broad open<br/>
plain of Rhãháng again - I would only say<br/>
in dismissing this portion of our journey,<br/>
that I have had to omit much that would<br/>
have been interesting, such as the names<br/>
given to the falls: the whole thirty five are<br/>
named, some of the names referring to<br/>
something real or supposed in the scenery<br/>
around, such as "Hot-Noi, Ang-Rawng,<br/>
Pen-Fa, Ok-Ma, Kala-Hluang, &c. &c."<br/>
The whole route would be a splendid field<br/>
for the skilful and scientific geologist, and<br/>
might amply repay the Siamese government<br/>
for employing one, by the valuable mines<br/>
which might be discovered. As for ourselves<br/>
we came through so rapidly that we did not<br/>
even have time to avail ourselves of the<br/>
benefits of the small geological knowledge<br/>
that we possess. The scientific man would<br/>
wish to go leisurely, and might well afford<br/>
to go up the stream. But let no one who<br/>
desires only the passing effect ascend it,<br/>
as it would be slow and tedious. To get<br/>
merely the pleasing effect of the whole I<br/>
suppose ours was the best plan, to make<br/>
no stoppage whatever, though I would not<br/>
take that course from choice. Any one<br/>
would wish to spend at least a week in<br/>
passing them. We reached Rahááng on<br/>
Thursday evening, and left next morning<br/>
for Bangkok. Our deceptive river, that had<br/>
tried us so much before, had laid aside its false<br/>
colors. The water had subsided and we<br/>
could always tell where the channel lay.<br/>
We were troubled somewhat for a day or<br/>
so by sticking on the sand bars, but reached<br/>
Bangkok on Saturday 7th Feb. 1845. after<br/>
a passage of 9 days from Rahááng, and an<br/>
absence of 79 days. But one closing re-<br/>
mark, in the account of the whole tour I<br/>
have purposely omitted its missionary as-<br/>
pect, that having been more fully given else-<br/>
where.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Your's &c. D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—When there in such a<br/>
dearth of news in the country, probably<br/>
your readers might be pleased with any in-<br/>
telligence from an out province, even if it<br/>
is only the prognostications concerning the<br/>
weather and the prospects of the rice crop.<br/>
Your mercantile readers will regret to learn<br/>
that the rains are to be scarce, the river low<br/>
and the rice crop small. So say the weather<br/>
astrologers, or rather the dualists in Pet-<br/>
chambré. It might however serve to lessen<br/>
their anxiety to know the data on which<br/>
such predictions are based. Well, it is<br/>
simply because the weather was dry and the<br/>
river low, from the seventh to the tenth of<br/>
July inclusive, or the last two days of the<br/>
waxing, and the first two of the waning<br/>
moon of the 8th Siamese month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese regard those four days as<br/>
the middle of the harvest months; there be-<br/>
ing three days before and three after that<br/>
time. And the weather was people of<br/>
Petchaburee say that it has been noticed<br/>
"from time immemorial" that the state of<br/>
the weather during these four days deter-<br/>
mines; or is more correctly an index to<br/>
the same during the whole season. When<br/>
they are dry and the river low, we may ex-<br/>
pect a scarcity of rain, but the reverse when<br/>
it rains and the river is flush at the time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It so happened that this year the weather<br/>
was then unusually clear and but little water<br/>
in the river. It was more remarkable too<br/>
because the rains had been abundant before,<br/>
and there was every prospect of a good crop.<br/>
But notwithstanding this is regarded as a<br/>
sign "that never fails" we are ourselves<br/>
inclined as yet, to look on the bright side<br/>
of things, and to hope that the favorable<br/>
prospects may not be darkened. With the<br/>
single exception of the above unfavorable<br/>
omens the prospects are certainly very fair<br/>
at present, though the season is not far<br/>
enough advanced to allow any correct pre-<br/>
dition as to what the crops may be. There<br/>
never was a time when there was so much<br/>
land under cultivation, or as many laborers<br/>
engaged in the fields before. Every one<br/>
who can buy a field has one, and those<br/>
who cannot, rent or propose new ones, so<br/>
that the public works have almost stopped<br/>
for want of carpenters and workmen. And<br/>
as yet the season has been most auspicious.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rains were rather late in commencing<br/>
but for the last six weeks they have been<br/>
abundant. As yet there has been no super-<br/>
fluity and no scarcity. The rice fields are<br/>
now more than half planted by means of<br/>
the rain water, while to crown the prospects<br/>
for a few days past, the river has risen so<br/>
high that the water is now rushing out<br/>
through the innumerable canals to gladden<br/>
the heart of those who are dependent on the<br/>
river for their crop.  It is also interesting<br/>
to see that the people are turning their at-<br/>
tention to other species of agriculture, so<br/>
that there may be something for the staff<br/>
of life should the rice crops fail.  In taking<br/>
a ride the other day to K’ow Hluang, my<br/>
eyes were feasted with the sight of a large<br/>
corn field to the left in a place newly<br/>
cleared.  It reminded me of a good field<br/>
of hoe corn.  I understand that there is a<br/>
great deal planted in corn the present year.<br/>
Outside of the subject of the crops, we<br/>
have but little news of general interest.<br/>
The gambling fever has assumed an epidem-<br/>
ic type, and a very malignant character.<br/>
It was always bad enough, but since the<br/>
new game of Hooi, or lottery, has been<br/>
established the mania has increased manifold.<br/>
Formerly the state of the market and the<br/>
rice crops was the subject of conversation<br/>
by people in the market and on the roads,<br/>
but now the great question of the day is<br/>
"what letter is to take the prize" Fortune<br/>
tellers and spirits are consulted to disclose<br/>
the favoural one.  The lottery agents and<br/>
secretaries have their stands in different<br/>
portions of the town which are often crowd-<br/>
ed by those who wish to try their chance at<br/>
a fortune.  I understand that the man who<br/>
has the monopoly of it in Bangkok, pays<br/>
the government two hundred and fifty cat-<br/>
ties, and that he has farmed it out in Pet-<br/>
chaburee at the rate of three catties per<br/>
day, or over one thousand per year.  But<br/>
even this does not show the extent of the<br/>
drain from the pockets of the prople, as<br/>
the Petchaburee monopolist must make his<br/>
profits also.  Who is responsible for its<br/>
establishment is not for me to say, but<br/>
surely it is a "penny wise and pound foolish<br/>
policy" in the government to allow it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Only one other item suggests itself to<br/>
me now, A week or two ago I had occa-<br/>
sion for the first time to accompany one<br/>
in our employ to a Siamese court of justice!<br/>
and witness the practical operation of their<br/>
system of jurisprudence. It is said that<br/>
before the present Lieut. Governor came<br/>
here, there was a great deal of corruption<br/>
and bribery, in that department of this<br/>
place. But it is the universal testimony of<br/>
all, that he cannot be bribed, and I suppose<br/>
there is no place in Siam that has a more<br/>
upright judge than he is. He has under<br/>
officers who take the testimony on both<br/>
sides in writing, and one day in every<br/>
week is devoted to hearing law cases, which<br/>
are thus brought before him. He has remov-<br/>
ed several of the under judges who have<br/>
been proved guilty of bribery or injustice<br/>
of any kind, while he is himself a terror to<br/>
evil doers, and universally praised by those<br/>
who do well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is one remarkable feature of the<br/>
law cases in Siam not generally known.<br/>
Whenever a case is entered in court, both<br/>
plaintiff and defendant have to go and stay<br/>
there till the case is decided. It is done<br/>
in order that each one shall act as a guard<br/>
to the other, for fear he may go and get<br/>
counsel that will be unfavorable to the other<br/>
party. A Siamese friend told me that he<br/>
once had to spend a year thus, away from<br/>
his family and business in a case where<br/>
forty ticals were involved. They may go<br/>
away during the day providing they mut-<br/>
ually consent to do so and both go togeth-<br/>
er. It occurred to me that this feature of<br/>
their jurisprudence might be well adopted<br/>
into other countries. I am sure that in<br/>
countries when time is money, and the face<br/>
of ones antagonist not the most pleasant<br/>
object to behold, the ardor of some who<br/>
are so fond of litigation would be cooled<br/>
down by such a custom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Your's &c, D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The events of the fortnight have again<br/>
been important. and have continued adverse<br/>
to the Imperial arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The victory gained by the Nien-fei, over<br/>
the army commanded by San ko-lin-sin,<br/>
when this generalissimo lost his life, must<br/>
have resulted in a complete route of the<br/>
Imperial troops, for his body was lost, and<br/>
all obstruction to the progress of the in-<br/>
surgents, swept away—at least, so far as<br/>
is known.... The last advices state that the<br/>
insurgents had captured, and sacked the<br/>
city of Chefoo-shien in the Province of<br/>
Shantung, celebrated as having been the<br/>
birth-place of Confucius.... The Mandarins<br/>
report runs to the effect that the insurgents<br/>
sacked the place, destroying all that has<br/>
been constructed during many centuries in<br/>
honor of the sage. This report is probably<br/>
untrue and may have been spread to excite<br/>
the people who hold, as a rule, the memory<br/>
of Confucius in the greatest reverence.<br/>
However that may be, there seems no reason<br/>
To doubt the fall of the town which would<br/>
place the insurgents close to the Province<br/>
of Chih Li, within about one hundred miles<br/>
from Tientsin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The utmost alarm prevails, both at the<br/>
Capital and at Tientsin. The cry seems<br/>
to be for Foreign aid. The disciplined<br/>
troops which were quartered near Soochow,<br/>
and which have lately occupied so much of<br/>
the care and solicitude of the ex-Futai Li,<br/>
have at length been hurried up by foreign<br/>
steamers, to the Peiho. This force con-<br/>
sists of about seven thousand troops includ-<br/>
ing two corps of artillery, and besides<br/>
having some well tried foreign officers, has<br/>
all the Chinese veterans who served under<br/>
Ward, Hope, Burgevine, Stavely, Gordon,<br/>
and the ex-Footai Li. If this force be in the<br/>
efficient state represented, there can be<br/>
little doubt it will scatter the Nien-fei with<br/>
the utmost facility.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tseng-kwo-fan left Nanking on the 8th<br/>
inst, to take command of the army in<br/>
Shantung, and Li the ex-Footai. left Soo-<br/>
chow on the 11th idem for Nanking to take<br/>
the seals as Governor General of the Two<br/>
Kiang. It does not appear that the Tient-<br/>
sin authorities, at date of last advices, were<br/>
aware of the coming of the disciplined<br/>
troops from Shanghai. They had unden-<br/>
gone a certain amount of drill instruction<br/>
at the hands of the British troops who have<br/>
occupied the Taku forts for some time.<br/>
These were sent to intercept the path of<br/>
the Nien fei under charge of the Chinese<br/>
Superintendent of Trade, who induced the<br/>
Commissioner of Foreign Customs at<br/>
Tientsin to accompany him. Application<br/>
is understood to have been made to the<br/>
British Minister to allow the officer in<br/>
charge of the few British troops for the<br/>
Taku forts, to proceed to the scene of ac-<br/>
tion, and rumour has it that the request<br/>
had been granted
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The four thousand native drilled troops<br/>
just referred to have never seen any ser-<br/>
vice, and it is greatly doubted if any re-<br/>
liance can be placed upon them; They<br/>
refused to proceed after having started, and<br/>
some of their number had to be decapitat-<br/>
ed by way of intimidating the others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is also stated in quarters likely to be<br/>
well informed, that Prince Kung had sent<br/>
an urgent order to Shanghai, desiring Mr.<br/>
Hart, the Inspector General of Customs,<br/>
to repair to Peking without loss of time;<br/>
and it is certain that that officer did proceed<br/>
thither on the 20th inst. It is stated on<br/>
what should be good authority, that the<br/>
Imperial government were not aware of the<br/>
existence of this effective disciplined force<br/>
at Shanghai. It was of course known that<br/>
a camp of instruction had been established<br/>
there, but it was supposed denuded by the<br/>
expedition sent to Funkien, that no more<br/>
force remained than was necessary to pro-<br/>
ceed to Shanghai. It is added that Mr. Hart<br/>
caused this force to be moved to the Peiho<br/>
and this statement, derives corroboration<br/>
from the report that the ex-Footai Li has<br/>
applied to take command of it, on the<br/>
ground that the city of Nanking was too<br/>
important a post to be vacated by Tseng-<br/>
kwo fan. Mr Hart knows well how im-<br/>
practicable a man Tseng is, and as Li has<br/>
had much experience in foreign military<br/>
affairs, and besides has been for some time<br/>
in constant communication with Mr. Hart<br/>
it is natural that the latter should desire<br/>
to see him at the head of the force on which<br/>
the safety of the Empire apparently de-<br/>
pends.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Hart's present position is a most<br/>
singular one. He was second to Mr. Lay<br/>
on the Foreign Customs Inspectorate, be-<br/>
ing established and it is entirely through<br/>
him that the institution has survived. He<br/>
is a most efficient officer, and notwithstand-<br/>
ing the odium which the China Customs<br/>
has drawn upon itself, he has always re-<br/>
tained the respect of the foreign commun-<br/>
ity, and at the same time enjoyed the full<br/>
confidence of the Mandarins. His sin-<br/>
gleness of purpose, his application to busi-<br/>
ness, his circumspection, tact, and talents<br/>
are really extraordinary. It is fact which<br/>
is not generally known, that the flotilla<br/>
scheme of which Mr. Lay and Capt. Os-<br/>
borne made such a sad bungle, was an<br/>
arrangement concluded between Prince<br/>
hung and Mr. Hart, who simply wanted<br/>
the vessels to do as they pleased with Mr.<br/>
Hart out of courtesy, employed Mr. Lay,<br/>
who was absent at the time in England,<br/>
and the affair fell to grief because of the<br/>
high ambitious flight which that individual<br/>
described in connexion with it. Still Mr.<br/>
Hart's conduct was so straightforward, that<br/>
notwithstanding the withdrawal of the ves-<br/>
sels after their arrival, he retained the<br/>
confidence of Prince Kung.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would now appear as if the fate of<br/>
the dynasty were in his hands, and it is<br/>
very probably the fact that he is relied on<br/>
for council and advice, not only as to how<br/>
to repel the insurgents, but also as to<br/>
frustrating the machinations of the differ-<br/>
ent factions who are scheming for their<br/>
own aggrandisement, at the risk of the<br/>
Empire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are still no certain tidings as to<br/>
the movements of the Taipings in the<br/>
province of Fuhkien. They appear to be<br/>
South of the Tea districts, and have not<br/>
interfered as yet, either with the mani-<br/>
pulation of the leaf, or the transit. A<br/>
rumour was current to the effect that they<br/>
hand recaptured Changchow, but this can-<br/>
not be true. It seems certain however<br/>
that they have captured a prefectural city<br/>
of some note, either near the borders, or<br/>
within the limits of the adjoining province<br/>
of Kwangtung: and it is equally certain<br/>
that there is no imperial force in the field<br/>
of sufficient strength to cope with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Baron de Meritens, Commissioner<br/>
of Customs at Foochow, is busily engaged<br/>
organising a Chinese disciplined force. He<br/>
has acquired the services of a number of<br/>
French drill-instructors, and has obtained<br/>
a quantity of arms and munitions from the<br/>
military authorities of this colony. His<br/>
intentions are doubtless praiseworthy, but<br/>
in teaching the Mandarins to lean on him<br/>
for support and not to trust to themselves,<br/>
he is simply perpetuating the baneful policy<br/>
which has encouraged that spirit of apathy<br/>
and fatalism, which has allowed matters to<br/>
drift into their present sad state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A General called Pao Chao had a com-<br/>
mand on the Yangtsse embracing Kow-<br/>
kiang and Hankow-—which command con-<br/>
sisted of fourteen camps. In the last issue<br/>
but one of this Report some particular<br/>
were given of the mutiny of one of these<br/>
camps. It is now stated that eleven of the<br/>
other camps have mutined and have form-<br/>
ed themselves into predatory hordes—<br/>
two camps only remaining loyal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new Order in Council for the Gov-<br/>
ernment of British subjects in China, dated<br/>
9th March, has been published in the Ga-<br/>
zette of this Colony. It will not come in<br/>
to force until one month after it shall have<br/>
been promulgated by the British Consul<br/>
at Shanghai. It superseded all the laws<br/>
hitherto in force and contains several vast<br/>
improvements. For instance, all British<br/>
subjects residing in China must register<br/>
themselves once a year at the Consulate<br/>
under whose jurisdiction they may be—-<br/>
otherwise they will be excluded from all<br/>
the advantages of ex-territoriality. Again,<br/>
no British subject can aid and abet either<br/>
the Imperial Government in putting down<br/>
rebellion, or insurgents in revolt against<br/>
the government, without being guilty of a<br/>
misdemeanor—unless he shall possess the<br/>
Queen's license, the proof whereof will rest<br/>
on the party accused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is fortunate for the Mandarins that<br/>
some delay is likely to ensue in this Or-<br/>
der in Council coming into effect, as at the<br/>
present juncture, many British subjects<br/>
are serving in the Imperial ranks. When<br/>
the Order does come into force, British<br/>
policy will become entirely changed in<br/>
consequence of interference being prohibi-<br/>
ted. If Commissioners of Customs are to<br/>
be fighting men. Customs patronage will<br/>
doubtless all revert to the French, who<br/>
have a most irrepressible penchant for<br/>
fighting the Taipings in a manner which<br/>
secures both glory and profit. It does not<br/>
appear clear however how the new law is<br/>
to be put in motion, and if as the Attorney<br/>
General in the House of Commons distinct-<br/>
ly implied, the Consuls in China can pro-<br/>
secute or not as they may please,—-they<br/>
will of course be guided by the wishes of<br/>
the British Minister, who will of course<br/>
direct the action of the law so as to carry<br/>
out his political ends or personal feelings.<br/>
This view of the case is the more alarming<br/>
seeing the perfect futility of appeal under<br/>
the present administration. It may safely<br/>
be said, that during the terin of office<br/>
of the present Ministry, British affairs in<br/>
China have been conducted in an extreme-<br/>
ely oppressive and questionable manner,<br/>
and yet on no occasion probably has an ap-<br/>
peal or a remonstrance met with anything<br/>
but official repellence; so much so, that<br/>
injustice is now submitted to as a matter<br/>
of course and there is a great lack of con-<br/>
fidence in British authority.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To assist the Imperial Government, the<br/>
local authorities of this colony, acting un-<br/>
der orders from home, prohibited by Pro-<br/>
clamation the export of arms and munitions<br/>
except under a Mandarin pass or certifi-<br/>
cate. The neighbouring colony of Macao<br/>
derived considerable benefit from this pro-<br/>
hibition, and the Canton Mandarins opened<br/>
an office for the sale of the required pas-<br/>
ses to any foreigner whom it suited to ap-<br/>
ply for them. The matter at last became<br/>
so absurd. that the local authorities, after<br/>
representation, obtained instructions to re-<br/>
scind the prohibition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large quantities of New Silk and Tea<br/>
have been settled since the departure of<br/>
last mail. Still trade is generally dull, es-<br/>
pecially in-so-far as shipping is concerned.<br/>
Exchange, strange to say, has tended down.<br/>
No more failures have been announced<br/>
here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Overland Trade Report.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_6_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Karennees.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The term Karenne in plain English, is<br/>
Red Karen. The affix nee is a Burman<br/>
word and signifies red. According to Dr.<br/>
Mason, and no man has studied the subject<br/>
more persistently and thoroughly than he<br/>
has, the great Karen family found in<br/>
Burnah, are divided into four principal<br/>
Tribes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1. Sgaw Tribes.</td>
 <td>2. Rghai Tribes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3. Pwo Tribes.</td>
 <td>4. Shaw Karens.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the Karens are susceptible of being<br/>
grouped into these four grand divisions.<br/>
but each division is again split up into<br/>
several little clans. each living under the<br/>
authority of its own chief. Without<br/>
knowing any reason for that practice, the<br/>
Burmese simply distinguish the Karens,<br/>
as Burman Karens, or Pwo, and Taline<br/>
Karens or Sgaas. The dominant race has<br/>
never taken any trouble to make a more<br/>
minute division. They sometimes use the<br/>
word Ayeing, which means Wild, and<br/>
there they leave the definition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Along the whole of our North east<br/>
frontier of British Burmah, we find the<br/>
Karens located in considerable numbers.<br/>
The country called Karennee stretches a-<br/>
long for two or three hundred miles, and<br/>
is inhabited by Red Karens, White Ka-<br/>
rens, Shan Karens, and other tribes. A<br/>
range of mountains broken and dislocated<br/>
into separate masses, seems to divide Ka-<br/>
rennee into two sections, one called East-<br/>
ern Karonnee, and the other Western<br/>
Karonnee. The clans occupying the West-<br/>
ern section of that territory are ruled by<br/>
thirteen different chiefs, though they all<br/>
owe a nominal allegiance to one who goes<br/>
by the name of "Kyay hpoqyce" This<br/>
very venerable chief is the most influential<br/>
Karen in Western Karonnee. His re-<br/>
sidence is at a town called Kyelah. He<br/>
has two sons, Koon Tha, and Koon Sha,<br/>
who have also a great deal of influence<br/>
among that people. The Eastern and<br/>
Western Karens appear to have had an<br/>
immemorial feud existing between them.<br/>
They have never been exactly at peace<br/>
with each other. The western Karens are<br/>
as friendly toward the British Government<br/>
and their subjects, as the Eastern ones are<br/>
hostile and treacherous toward our people,<br/>
as would be the most ferocious of savages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the cold season of 1863. 4, that dis-<br/>
tinguished Civil officer of Government, the<br/>
late Edward O'Riley, Esquire, was deput-<br/>
ed by the Local Government on a friendly<br/>
Mission to these Karen tribes. After a<br/>
journey of sixteen days from Shooy gheyeen,<br/>
ascending and descending ranges of moun-<br/>
tains, over which it would be impossible to<br/>
conduct a tramway, Mr. O'Riley reached<br/>
the town of Kyekah in which resided the<br/>
Karen Patriarch Kyay hpo gyee. As soon<br/>
as it was announced that Mr. O'Riley was<br/>
on his way, the old Karen Chief sent out<br/>
a party with supplies for his followers and<br/>
to escort him, with honor to the town.<br/>
The meeting between the two friends, whose<br/>
acquaintance extended over a period of<br/>
seven years, (and they had performed the<br/>
ceremony of the "Titeesa," or the bond of<br/>
friendship), was most affecting. Civilization<br/>
and Savagery literally embraced each<br/>
other, as they met on that mountain home.<br/>
All the subordinate Chiefs were summoned<br/>
to Kyelah to meet the British Officer, who<br/>
had been so long their proved friend.<br/>
Thirteen attended. Warm and earnest<br/>
were the protestations of friendship. The<br/>
Shan traders were protected, on their<br/>
journey every year from the Shan states<br/>
to Maulmain.    Never once had they been<br/>
attacked by the western Karens since they<br/>
promised in 1857 not to molest them. They<br/>
had kept their word inviolate, and they<br/>
appealed to the Shans themselves for proof.<br/>
"Yes" replied the traders, "we are always<br/>
protected in western Karenne, but are rob-<br/>
bed and plundered and murdered in the<br/>
Eastern section of the territory.  These<br/>
people are our friends, but those are out<br/>
enemies"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After spending six weeks at Kyaypho-<br/>
gyee's town, and renewing the bonds of<br/>
peace and amity between, these wild people<br/>
and our Government, Mr. O'Riley proceeded<br/>
on his mission to Eastern Karennee, in<br/>
the hope of meeting with similar success.<br/>
Disappointment however, attended his<br/>
efforts on this part of his Mission. The<br/>
principal village or town in Easter Karen-<br/>
nee is a place called "Tsan lupan," where<br/>
till lately the Chief of Eastern Karennee<br/>
resided. He went by the name of Pah poo,<br/>
and was well known all up the Salween<br/>
river. Recently Pah poo, had died and<br/>
his authority had passed to two of his sons,<br/>
who were inexperienced youngmen, con-<br/>
trolled by the influence of their mother, one<br/>
Maiteen-tanee, who in the opinion of Mr<br/>
O'Riley was far the most influential person<br/>
in that part of Karennee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is clear that after, the old Chief<br/>
Pahpoo's death, power appeared to repose<br/>
in no particular hands. Hence our tim-<br/>
ber cutters, traders and Shan visitors were<br/>
attacked by bands of dacoits, who sprung<br/>
up in Eastern Karennee, and were a mix-<br/>
ture of Burmese, Shans and Karen dacoits.<br/>
acting under the direction of a leader styled<br/>
Menlong, or the embryo king. As all<br/>
political imposters fear the power of the<br/>
British Government, since Captain Lloyd<br/>
promptly put down an attempt at rebellion<br/>
in the Toungoo district, in the year 1859,<br/>
for which he deserved the Victoria Cross<br/>
our frontier has become too hot for these<br/>
aspirants for the kingly office. They keep<br/>
at a respectable distance beyond our boun-<br/>
dary, because they know, that five yards<br/>
of rope will be the treat they will receive<br/>
in case they are caught. Two years<br/>
ago, another Menlong was swung up at<br/>
Rangoon for creating a rebellion in the<br/>
Pegu district. The Martaban Menloung<br/>
is the man, who opposed Mr. O’Riley’s<br/>
reception in the Eastern Karennee State,<br/>
when he was proceeding on a mission of<br/>
peace and friendship with all the Karen.<br/>
tribes in that part of the country. The<br/>
robberies and dacoities to which our sub-<br/>
jects are exposed while traveling through<br/>
that section of the Red Karen country are<br/>
owing in part to the want of all proper<br/>
authority and to machinations of the Bur-<br/>
mese impostor, who would like to be a king,<br/>
but is unable to find a vacant throne for<br/>
himself. For sometime Mr. O'Riley was<br/>
exposed to considerable risk, but by firm-<br/>
ness and good judgment he was enabled to<br/>
withdraw from a difficulty which appeared<br/>
to threaten his life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope to return to his interesting<br/>
topic of the late Mr. O'Riley's mission to<br/>
Karennee on an early day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Rangoon Times.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_7_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Funeral Cortege.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such a funeral as that of the late Presid-<br/>
ent Lincoln has, perhaps, never been wit-<br/>
nessed before in the world's history. All<br/>
the pageants got up by wealth in honour<br/>
of dead kings, dwindle into insignificance<br/>
in comparison with it. At Washington,<br/>
the scene of the fatal catastrophe, the cere-<br/>
monies were very imposing, the whole<br/>
population participating in it, as well as the<br/>
foreign diplomatic corps. In Baltimore,<br/>
on the arrival of the body, the scene was<br/>
renewed, and the crowd of still and solemn<br/>
spectators far greater. At Harrisburg, the<br/>
capital of Pennsylvania, although the weath-<br/>
er had become unfavourable, eager thou-<br/>
sands paid their last respects to the<br/>
honoured dead. In Philadelphia, hundreds<br/>
of thousands lined the streets through<br/>
which the procession passed. The proces-<br/>
sion itself, composed of civilians, societies,<br/>
professional men, soldiers and sailors, was<br/>
grand, solemn, and effective. The scenes<br/>
for two days were indescribable. New<br/>
York, first in population, was moved to its<br/>
very heart, and nothing was spared to make<br/>
the occasion one of great impressiveness.<br/>
The funeral honours were to be repeated<br/>
in Albany, Buffalo, Chicago, and Spring-<br/>
field, where the body is to repose. At all<br/>
intermediate towns through which the<br/>
body passed, the whole population spon-<br/>
taneously rendered honours to the dead.<br/>
A large volume would not be adequate to<br/>
particularize and describe all the details.<br/>
The general effect of these remarkable<br/>
funeral ceremonies has been good. The<br/>
minds of the people have, to an annual<br/>
degree, been solemnized, and if permanent<br/>
advantage does not result, it will be our<br/>
crime. 'We should learn, from such an<br/>
event, to honour our God-appointed magis-<br/>
trates and rulers, to love our country more<br/>
dearly, to abhor sin more profoundly, and<br/>
to stand in awe of the Divine judgments.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Capture of Jeff. Davis.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lieut.-Col. Harden, commanding the<br/>
First Wisconsin, has just arrived from Ir-<br/>
winsville. He struck the trail of Davis at<br/>
Dublin, Laurens County, on the evening of<br/>
the 7th, and followed him closely night and<br/>
day through the pine wilderness of Alliga-<br/>
tor Creek and Green Swamps, via Cumber-<br/>
landville to Irwinsville.<br/>
At Cumberlandville Col. Harden met<br/>
Col. Pritchard, with 150 picked men and<br/>
horses of the Fourth Michigan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harden followed the trail directly south,<br/>
while Pritchard, having fresher horses,<br/>
pushed down the Ocmulgee toward Hope-<br/>
well, and thence by House Creek to Irwins-<br/>
ville, arriving there at midnight of the 9th.<br/>
Jeff. Davis had not arrived.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From a citizen Pritchard learned that<br/>
his party were encamped two miles out of<br/>
the town. He made dispositions of his men<br/>
and surrounded the camp before day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harden had camped at 9 P. M. within<br/>
two miles, as he afterward learned, from<br/>
Davis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The trail being too indistinct to follow,<br/>
he pushed on at 3 A. M., and had gone but<br/>
little more than one mile, when his advance<br/>
was fired upon by men of the Fourth Michi-<br/>
gan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A fight ensued, both parties exhibiting<br/>
the greatest determination. Fifteen minutes<br/>
elapsed before the mistake was discovered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The firing in this skirmish was the first<br/>
warning that Davis received.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The captors report that he hastily put on<br/>
one of his wife's dresses and started for the<br/>
woods, closely followed by our men, who at<br/>
first thought him a woman, but seeing his<br/>
boots while he was running, they suspected<br/>
his sex at once.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The race was a short one, and the rebel<br/>
President was soon brought to bay. He<br/>
brandished a bowie-knife and showed signs<br/>
of battle, but yielded promptly to the per-<br/>
suasions of Colt's revolvers, without com-<br/>
pelling the men to fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He expressed great indignation at the<br/>
energy with which he was pursued, saying<br/>
that he had believed our government were<br/>
too magnanimous to hunt down women and<br/>
children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. DAVIS remarked to Col. HARDEN,<br/>
after the excitement was over, that the men<br/>
had better not provoke the President, or<br/>
"he might hurt some of 'em.",
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REAGAN behaves himself with dignity<br/>
and resignation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The party, evidently, were making for<br/>
the coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. H. WILSON,
Brevet Major General.
New York Times.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following telegrams are brought on<br/>
by the Em_s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, June 19th. - Cotton market<br/>
excited owing to Alexandria advices Dhol-<br/>
era 12d, Hemp. Firm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, June 20th - Cotton Market<br/>
very active and considerable transactions<br/>
at one farthing to half penny advance.<br/>
One penny advance demanded at Manches-<br/>
ter, and more business doing. Shirtings<br/>
7 lbs. 12s. 3d. Twist No. 40, 1s. 6½d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London June 20th. - New Omarawatte<br/>
15d. Old Dhollera 12½d. New Crop 14d.<br/>
Afloat 20d. Stock 350,000 bales.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, June 25th. - Federals occupied<br/>
Brownsville.  Fort in Sabine pass surren-<br/>
dered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Surrender of Charleston imminent.  La-<br/>
hore Bishopric Bill withdrawn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Twist No. 40, 13 6d. Fair Dhollera<br/>
12¾d @ 13d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Galle 7th July.— A telegram has been<br/>
received announcing a further large failure<br/>
in Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cursetjee Furdonjeel liabilities two<br/>
Crores.  Assets 1¾ Crores.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearly all the Banks are involved except<br/>
Chartered Mercantile and Oriental Bank<br/>
Corporation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is a list of the failures in<br/>
Bombay up to the date of our telegraphic<br/>
advice by way of Galle-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">D. Narayen Dajee</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 62,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">D. Bhan Dajee</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 85,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Passmore & Co</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 128,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Pranjeewandass Hurjeewandas</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 121,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Byramjee Nanaboy Franjee</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 150,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">S. Tyabjee & Co</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 202,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">A. H. Huschke & Co</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 320,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Ardaseer Cursetjee Dady</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 330,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Pestonjee Cursetjee Shroff</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 1,525,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Cursetjee Furdonje</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">£ 2,000,000</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
European Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
( From the Home News, June 3. )
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her Royal Highness the Princess of<br/>
Wales was safely delivered of a Prince<br/>
this morning, June 3' 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Charles Wood has announced his<br/>
intention to bring forward the Indian Bud-<br/>
get before the close of the session.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The trial of the persons implicated in<br/>
the murder of Mr. Lincoln is proceeding<br/>
at Washington. The struggle for independ-<br/>
ence is still maintained in Texas, to which<br/>
state the Federal General Sheridan has<br/>
repaired with his troops. The negroes in<br/>
the South have petitioned for the suffrage.<br/>
All persons found with arms in the South<br/>
will be punished with death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Federal Government has detained<br/>
a vessel with armed emigrants proceeding<br/>
to Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor of the French has written<br/>
a letter to Prince Napoleon, expressing his<br/>
displeasure at the speech made by the<br/>
Prince in Corsica.  The Prince has replied<br/>
by resigning his offices in the Council<br/>
and the Universal Exhibition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is believed that large Naval and Mil-<br/>
itary reinforcements will be sent from<br/>
France in aid of Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Derby has been won by a French<br/>
horse, Gladiateur, the property of Count de<br/>
Lagrange, and the Oaks by Regalia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon has declined an<br/>
invitation of the Queen of Spain to pass<br/>
through Spain on his return from Algeria.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Russia has demanded<br/>
of the Roumanian Government a treaty for<br/>
the surrender of Polish refugees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A proposed grant of £10,000 to the en-<br/>
gineers of the Thames Sewage Works has<br/>
been rejected by the Metropolitan Board of<br/>
Works as excessive and premature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great fire has taken place in Notting-<br/>
ham, destroying £ 50,000 worth of prop-<br/>
erty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hon. Gavan Duffy, from Australia,<br/>
has been entertained at a dinner by his<br/>
friends in London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Lord Warden," a large class iron-<br/>
clad, has been launched at Chatham.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is expected that the Great Eastern will<br/>
sail with the Atlantic cable in July.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bankruptcy Court has again refused<br/>
to release Colonel Waugh from Custody.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. Mr. Wagner, who received the<br/>
confession of Constance Kent, has been at-<br/>
tacked and beaten severely in the streets of<br/>
Brighton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lieut.-Colonel Dawkins has been placed<br/>
on half-pay.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the Home News, June 10.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Princess of Wales and the infant<br/>
Prince continue to make favourable pro-<br/>
gress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the American ports, except those of<br/>
Texas, have been thrown open to foreign<br/>
trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Earl Russell has issued an order, directing<br/>
that all ships bearing the Confederate flag<br/>
shall be sent out of British ports. The<br/>
French government has issued a similar or-<br/>
der.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
True bills for treason have been found<br/>
against Jefferson Davis and General Breck-<br/>
enridge on a charge of having invaded Co-<br/>
lumbia. Davis is said to be severely treat-<br/>
ed in prison; and kept in manacles. It is<br/>
said that General Lee will be arrested and<br/>
tried for treason.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson has issued an amnes-<br/>
ty proclamation to the South, with large ex-<br/>
ceptions of civil and military functionaries<br/>
and private persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Hood and his staff have crossed<br/>
the Mississippi. General Kirby Smith has<br/>
made terms for the surrender of his army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The endeavour to obtain volunteers in<br/>
the United States for Juarez has proved a<br/>
failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Louis Napoleon has returned to France.<br/>
Before he left Algeria he issued a proclama-<br/>
tion to the army thanking them for their<br/>
services.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The select committee of the House of<br/>
Commons appointed to inquire into the<br/>
Lord Chancellor's appointment in the Leeds<br/>
Bankruptcy Court, has met with closed<br/>
doors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Three dreadful accidents, by which sever-<br/>
al lives were lost, have occurred on the<br/>
Great Western and South Eastern Railways.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Cobden has declined a pension proffered<br/>
by Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A fearful storm has occurred off the North<br/>
coast of Europe, and on some parts of the<br/>
English coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Big Gun-—The monster 20 inch gun<br/>
"Beelzebub " cast at Pittsburg, was tried<br/>
a few days since and proved a complete<br/>
success. It throws a solid shot weighing<br/>
1080 pounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LORD ESKRINE, going circuit, on one oc-<br/>
casion, was asked by the landlord of the<br/>
house where he lodged how he had slept.<br/>
He replied, Union is strength: a fact of<br/>
which some of your inmates seem to be<br/>
unaware, for had they been unanimous last<br/>
night they might have pushed me out of<br/>
bed!—"Fleas!" exclaimed Boniface, af-<br/>
fecting great astonishment; "I was not<br/>
aware that I had a single one in the house."<br/>
—"I don't believe you have," retorted his<br/>
guest; "they are all married, and have un-<br/>
commonly large families."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_8_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">PRICE CURRENT.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8f">
        <p class="r5b">14½</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">pls</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8f">
        <p class="r5b">13½</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8f">
        <p class="r5b">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8f">
        <p class="r5b">8½</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8f">
        <p class="r5b">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 11 picul. scarce</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 2¼</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Scarce Tic. 11 Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 152 @ 235<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>100 pical according to size.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Hides Tic. 9¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Horns- Black Tic. 10 picul</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Hides Tic. 12 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Prime Tic. 205 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">middling Tic. 140 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Gambege</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 51 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 125 Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Sticlao</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 13½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 11 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Ivory</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 330 @ 370 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Cardamums</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 200 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 23½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic 75 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Silk-Laos</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 255, Cochin China Tic.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">700 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Gold-leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">No.1 Ansing, Tic 16½ Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 4½ cent premium.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Towing and Lightering.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Until further notice, all orders for<br/>
Towing and Lightering with the<br/>
Steamers "Jack Waters" and "Fairy"<br/>
with the Barges, will receive attention
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-08-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="14" valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. AUG 1ST 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">460</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siam Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hollinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">786</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siam Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Etienne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Sievers</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ham. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">St.George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Davis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">320</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Julia Ana</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Leonard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Klindt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ellsa Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">341</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pollex</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Blok</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">417</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dutch<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">299</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">680</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Siam Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r40">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amelie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gramer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">679</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bahnnet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Euzare</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Düeppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Etienne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sievers</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">M Alle Keyematy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Castro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hawk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">162</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chosua Kwong Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gerdes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Julia Ana</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Leonard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Captain</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Leyser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">315</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Phya Chedock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Moon Light</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">647</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Puh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Postillon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Greve</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Koon Leet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sir R. Peel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">344</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pulsakie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Young May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r48">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
