---
linkTitle: 'September 30th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 30th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 30th'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 18
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 30th 1865</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 18</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
September 30th 1886.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
September which has just closed has giv-<br/>
en quite a different face to the business<br/>
prospects of this place for the next year.<br/>
The rains held off until September, and<br/>
even it commenced with apparently every<br/>
prospect of a short crop. Merchants, pro-<br/>
prietors of rice mills, and traders of every<br/>
The kind wore a disheartened look. The na-<br/>
tives were apprehensive of a famine. In<br/>
many places extraordinary efforts were put<br/>
forth in movie making in order to induce<br/>
the rain to descend. The Lieut. Governor <br/>
of one of the provinces, who is more enter-<br/>
prising than most of his countrymen, con-<br/>
ceived the more sensible and effectual idea<br/>
of damming the river in order to make the<br/>
water overflow the rice fields. Before his<br/>
dam was completed the rains came and<br/>
swept it all away, and the river rose and<br/>
overflowed the fields more effectually.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At this place our first heavy rain came<br/>
on the 2nd Sept. In the evening a cloud<br/>
came up in the west which appeared at first<br/>
as if it would pass off in wind, but soon the<br/>
rain began to descend in the real old<br/>
fashioned way. That rain has been fol-<br/>
lowed by many others of the same kind.<br/>
Reports from all parts of the country are in-<br/>
couraging and there is every indication an<br/>
abundant crop. Men's faces, which are<br/>
a good barometer in business affairs, indi-<br/>
cate a considerable rise in the mercury, and<br/>
the passing off of the clouds which obscured<br/>
the horizon. Every one is preparing for<br/>
business. Rice mills are hastening to be<br/>
ready to start. During some great and un-<br/>
expected calamity occur, business affairs will<br/>
soon bear the ordinary aspect of prosperous<br/>
times. Prices abroad were also for a time<br/>
discouraging, but at the expense of a por-<br/>
tion of the people of China a fair market is<br/>
open. The high water in the North of China<br/>
has destroyed to a great extent the crops,<br/>
so that the rice of Siam as usual will find a<br/>
fair market there.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rong Lao.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle avenues of trade to this<br/>
great emporium of Siam, this floating babel<br/>
Bangkok, are the canals lending from it to<br/>
different portions of the kingdom. Like<br/>
rays of light in a camera they are brought<br/>
to a focus here, but taken in an opposite<br/>
direction they diverge until they cut the<br/>
principle rivers, the great arteries of the<br/>
kingdom. They thus become the chief<br/>
avenues through which the produce from<br/>
distant provinces reaches a market. Some<br/>
of these canals are natural channels wind-<br/>
ing their serpentine courses, and often-<br/>
times too, wrathful and raging as if they<br/>
would tie themselves into knots. Then<br/>
again there is the artificial ditch apparently<br/>
straight, or as straight as they usually<br/>
makes things in Siam. Through these can-<br/>
als the water ebbs and flows with the tide.<br/>
in the rivers. We started out one morning<br/>
to buy a small quantity of molasses for the<br/>
purpose of mixing mortar for brick work.<br/>
Now there are some things although they<br/>
may be plenty, are as difficult to be obtain-<br/>
ed in small quantities in Bangkok as water<br/>
upon the mountains of Gilbos. You in-<br/>
quire where you think it ought to be found,<br/>
and they send you to the Chow Sua and<br/>
the Chow Sua send you to some person<br/>
else, until you become disgusted and give<br/>
up the pursuit. We inquired several places<br/>
for the article we wanted but it seemed to<br/>
be the general opinion, that we must go to<br/>
the Rong Lao (distillery) and to the<br/>
Rong Lao we went. We have from a<br/>
kind of instinct that the distillery was<br/>
some where above the city and told our<br/>
men to go there. To our surprise how-<br/>
ever they entered the canal known as<br/>
Klawng Koot Mai; a direction apparently<br/>
opposite to that which we wanted to go.<br/>
We knew there was a canal entered the<br/>
river above the city and had passed through<br/>
it before but now it appeared a strange<br/>
course to take and we could hardly recon-<br/>
cile ourselves to it, but being assured that<br/>
it was the shortest and best way we yielded.<br/>
The Klawng Koot Mai is one of the new<br/>
canals dug by His Majesty the present Su-<br/>
preme King. It commences away down in<br/>
the great bend and cutting across enter the<br/>
river again just above the Custom House,<br/>
or Harbour Master's residence. After en-<br/>
tering the canal the right bank for some<br/>
distance is studded with Chinese paddy<br/>
mills where the Chinamen manage with<br/>
their basket mills to hull considerable<br/>
quantities of paddy. Indeed in some places<br/>
a number of these mills may be found on<br/>
either bank. We could not however help<br/>
thinking of the time as not far distant, when<br/>
these mills will be among the things, that<br/>
were in Siam. They even now appeared<br/>
fewer in number than when we last passed<br/>
through. They first, must yield to the<br/>
power of western civilization. There are<br/>
already three steam rice mills ready, wait-<br/>
ing only for a move in the paddy before<br/>
they move. They are capable of turning<br/>
out at least three thousand piculs per day.<br/>
The machinery is already landed for a<br/>
fourth steam mill, and rumour says there<br/>
are still more in contemplation. Loath<br/>
therefore as the Chinamen may be to give<br/>
up their favorite basket mills, "Ichabod"<br/>
is written too plainly upon them not to be-<br/>
noticed by the most casual observer. Chin-<br/>
ese muscular power and basket mills, cannot<br/>
compete with steam and six feet stones.<br/>
This however will all turn out well in the<br/>
end. The Chinamen thus driven from the<br/>
slow process of hulling a few buckets of<br/>
paddy per day, will disperse throughout the<br/>
country, and turn their attention to raising<br/>
paddy. The rice crop will thus materially<br/>
increase from year to year. Many portions<br/>
too, now covered with jungle, will yield<br/>
to the axe and grubbing hoe of the China-<br/>
man and soon a good crop of rice will be<br/>
harvested in those places. We saw quite<br/>
a number of small paddy boats at the native<br/>
mills, and more coming in, but they would<br/>
be a mere handful compared with the<br/>
quantities which arrive in ordinary business<br/>
times.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sights in one of these canals, near the<br/>
city are but those of the river on a smaller<br/>
scale. The urchin rides along complacent-<br/>
ly in his Sampan, freighted with Chinese<br/>
sugar cane, crying at the top of his voice<br/>
"Oi Hin Hin Oe.” Next comes Ma Tim,<br/>
or Ma Tap, or some other Ma with an<br/>
eating saloon, and confectionery combined<br/>
and all afloat, crying out at the same<br/>
time the extent and quality of her com-<br/>
modities. A few rods in extent too, suf-<br/>
fice, to give a correct idea of the whole<br/>
scenes, and scenery along the banks. Em-<br/>
erging from one of these short cut canals<br/>
into the broad river again, it behooves a<br/>
person to take a new reckoning and find out<br/>
exactly his position, for should the tide be<br/>
flowing, one unacquainted with the bear-<br/>
ings might easily mistake the course for<br/>
home and take an opposite direction. Right<br/>
opposite the place where we entered the<br/>
river, stands the distillery. We made<br/>
straight across, and after landing marched<br/>
along a kind of avenue, up to the main<br/>
building, where we found a gentleman<br/>
seated cross legged upon a small platform.<br/>
We asked him as politely as we could, to<br/>
sell us a small quantity of molasses. His<br/>
prompt reply was "mai mi." We pointed to<br/>
two boat loads standing at the landing,<br/>
but he insisted that they were empty and<br/>
still said "mai mi." There was no mis-<br/>
taking the boats however, they were loaded<br/>
to the waters edge.... It is so common for<br/>
the natives themselves to liar each other,<br/>
that the kahok came up instantly in our<br/>
mind, and we felt like bringing it out, but<br/>
considering that we were in the wrong<br/>
place to assume any thing like authority,<br/>
we softened down our tone, and begged<br/>
some of the refuse which flows from the<br/>
still, and which might possibly answer our<br/>
purpose. It was readily given for the<br/>
taking away. The truth of the matter we<br/>
found out afterwards to be, that molasses<br/>
are very scarce, and they can barely get<br/>
enough to answer their purpose: but instead<br/>
of telling us so, oriental like, he told us<br/>
a down right lie, and said he had none at<br/>
all. This distillery is a Chinese establish-<br/>
ment, and upon the whole, presents a<br/>
species of Celestial scenery which to give<br/>
in full detail would have defied even the<br/>
pen of Thomas Dick. In one place are<br/>
seated a group, indulging for a time their<br/>
insatiable appetite for gambling. Near by<br/>
is another group taking their noon day<br/>
meal of cungy and fish, and were thus<br/>
satisfying another appetite, which in a<br/>
Chinaman is second only to that of gam-<br/>
bling. Some straggling fellows also each<br/>
had a stick of sugar cane in his hand<br/>
gnawing at it with apparently as much<br/>
relish as a hungry mastiff does a bone.<br/>
There is always something disgusting about<br/>
a Chinaman's eating. The Siamese al-<br/>
though they use the most primitive imple-<br/>
ments, eat with such dexterity and neatness<br/>
that one can't help but admire the opera-<br/>
tion. There is also a freedom from res-<br/>
traint, a relief from any fear of violating<br/>
one of the minor rules of table etiquette<br/>
which gives the whole affair an air of real<br/>
enjoyment. There is apparently no fear<br/>
lest they should commit the almost unpar-<br/>
donable offence of opening an egg at the<br/>
wrong end, or in some unguarded moment<br/>
put the knife into the mouth instead of<br/>
that most unwieldy of all table implements<br/>
the solid spoon. The Chinese invented<br/>
the chop sticks, and they must be well sat-<br/>
isfied with the invention for they appear to<br/>
make no effort to improve upon it, but who<br/>
that ever saw a Chinaman slabbering, and<br/>
blowing over a bowl of rice with a pair of<br/>
chop sticks, did not long to see him back at<br/>
the more primitive fingers. The men who<br/>
invented the knife fork, and spoon, and some<br/>
other sine qua nons, was certainly bene-<br/>
factors of the race. But the march of mo-<br/>
dern civilization has imposed upon those<br/>
who move at all in fashionable life a bur-<br/>
den of formality which destroys to a great<br/>
extent the natural ease and satisfaction<br/>
which should be enjoyed in the partaking<br/>
of ones meals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of the horde of Chinamen about this<br/>
establishment, but few appeared to be ac-<br/>
tually at work. The whole of the opera-<br/>
tions were crude. An almost innumerable<br/>
quantity of earthen jars, containing twelve<br/>
or fifteen gallons each were standing around,<br/>
in which were rice and molasses in every<br/>
state of fermentation, and from each of<br/>
several small stills, was running a stream<br/>
about the size as a large straw of boiling<br/>
hot arrack. The whole apparatus though<br/>
crude, we suppose is not more so, than that<br/>
which used to turn out the famous Irish<br/>
and Scotch whiskey, or that which made<br/>
the “Menongahlea” in the days of the<br/>
whiskey insurrection in Pennsylvania.<br/>
There was only one little ray of consolation<br/>
in. seeing that liquor running from the<br/>
still, and that is, it is to a great extent pure.<br/>
It is not a mixture of poisonous drugs as<br/>
the modern liquors of England, France and<br/>
America. If a man will burn his inside<br/>
out, better do it with pure fire, than such<br/>
corroding staff as sulphuric acid and other<br/>
drugs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Retail customers appeared to be tolerably<br/>
plenty. They would lay down the money<br/>
to the chief clerk, and he would give them a<br/>
nicked bamboo stick indicating the amount,<br/>
and they went to the man who measured<br/>
out, and got their bottles filled. One thing<br/>
was noticeable. None of the men engaged<br/>
about the establishment, appeared, as if<br/>
they indulged too freely. They presented<br/>
rather a contrast with the customers, who<br/>
were mostly Siamese and whose eyes and<br/>
faces indicated too clearly the course they<br/>
were going.  It would be interesting to<br/>
know exactly how many Chinese there are<br/>
in this kingdom.  We believe every es-<br/>
timate of their numbers here, falls far short<br/>
of the reality.  They are, it is true, a float-<br/>
ing population to some extent.  Numbers<br/>
return to China every year, and as many<br/>
new ones come.  They are found in num-<br/>
bers in every city and village, both on the<br/>
coast and inland their outlandish tones are<br/>
heard in every market, floating house, and junk.<br/>
No class of Asiatics who are not already<br/>
subjects of some European power have a<br/>
better chance to get along here than the<br/>
Chinese.  They pay only a small tax every<br/>
four years of four ticals and many of them<br/>
manage to escape that.  Many of them too<br/>
manage to make money.  These same Cel-<br/>
estials are swarming in every habitable is-<br/>
land in the Archipelago, and can roll up<br/>
their seventy thousand in the United States.<br/>
The following extract from an address,<br/>
lately made by Rev Mr. Speer Missionary<br/>
to the Chinese in California (during the<br/>
sessions of the General Assembly of the<br/>
Presbyterian church O. S.) may not prove<br/>
uninteresting in this connection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But I rise to night to represent one of the<br/>
most remarkable missions of the present<br/>
age. The Divine process for the evangeli-<br/>
zation of the world, after Christ came, was<br/>
first to make the Gospel clearly known<br/>
around that central sea—-the Mediterranean<br/>
-—in the parts of Asia, Europe and Africa<br/>
lying upon its borders. Then, after four<br/>
or five centuries of culture and preparation,<br/>
God poured out there the barbarous tribes<br/>
from the ends of the earth—-the Huns, the<br/>
Goths, the Vandals, the Turkish races,<br/>
many of them from the very shadow of the<br/>
Great Wall of China-—who there learned to<br/>
know Jesus as their Redeemer and God, and<br/>
sent back heralds of the glad tidings to the de-<br/>
serts and kingdoms far away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
God is thus conducting the great reform-<br/>
ation of the Church. It is the fourth cen-<br/>
tury since Martin Luther, and John Calvin,<br/>
and Ulric Zwingle. Upon this prepared<br/>
Continent, God has disciplined his Church.<br/>
Now behold the tribes of Asia, following<br/>
those of other divisions of the world, pour-<br/>
ing out from the same region as of old,<br/>
divinely led to seek the same glorious light.<br/>
There are now sixty or seventy thousand<br/>
Chinese on our Pacific Coast. But there<br/>
will follow millions. They are now spread-<br/>
ing over California, over Oregon, Washing-<br/>
ton, Nevada, Utah, over Northern Mexico,<br/>
over the islands of the Pacific and South<br/>
America! The day is coming when enor-<br/>
mous railroads will connect the Pacific<br/>
coast with the rest of the country, and when<br/>
they will reach the Valley of the Mississippi,<br/>
and the Valley of the Ohio, and labor on<br/>
your farms, in your shops, in your families.<br/>
Just as water flows from a level where it<br/>
has been long dammed up, so a crowded po-<br/>
pulation of hundreds of millions must gra-<br/>
vitate toward the immense unoccupied or<br/>
thinly settled regions in the west and centre<br/>
of this Continent. No human power can<br/>
hinder it. And how far beyond all concep-<br/>
tion must be the influence to be hence<br/>
exerted in bringing the numberless myriads<br/>
of China; and the great nations of that<br/>
Continent, to believe in and serve the Lord<br/>
Jesus Christ!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What then are these Chinese, mentally?<br/>
They are shrewd, business-like, active,<br/>
as ourselves-—well called the "Yankees of the<br/>
East." One of the most learned and<br/>
distinguished of the divines of this coun-<br/>
try (the Rev. Dr. Shedd, of New-York,)<br/>
said to me a few days ago, "If such an<br/>
estimate is true, it will put a new face upon<br/>
the Chinese movement, in my own mind,<br/>
and in that of the country." This estimate<br/>
is true. They come to California, and<br/>
compete successfully with our own mer-<br/>
chants and artisans. They go to the Sand-<br/>
wich Islands, as I saw at Honolulu and<br/>
Lahaina, actually take the native trade out<br/>
of the hands of Americans and other for-<br/>
eigners by superior management. One<br/>
built a locomotive in California; put it<br/>
upon a track laid around a large shed, and<br/>
charged us barbarians twenty-five cents<br/>
each for a ride. Another constructed a<br/>
small and perfect steamboat, four feet long,<br/>
which worked handsomely. They can do<br/>
many things that astonish us white bar-<br/>
barians. A Chinese doctor, Dr. Li Po-ti,<br/>
is now practising in San Francisco, not<br/>
homeopathy, nor hydropathy, nor motor-<br/>
pathy, nor any of our patients, but on<br/>
Chinese principles, feeling the twelve pulses<br/>
in each arm, and prescribing Chinese doses,<br/>
for our benighted people—earning, one of<br/>
the newspapers says, $10,000 a year. I<br/>
heard of a Chinese doctor who made a for-<br/>
tune at Havana."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ats and Copper Coin.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What do those individuals mean who<br/>
publish their opinions so frequently in the<br/>
newspaper here, on the subject of tin and<br/>
copper and what they repeat so often is<br/>
already known by their readers. Are the<br/>
writers and composers of these articles the<br/>
authors of the reports which are noticed a-<br/>
broad that the king of Siam is a mere tool<br/>
of men, doing every thing which they de-<br/>
sire without gainsaying? My advice to<br/>
them is, write no more to make others weary<br/>
of you. If you wish to get gain import<br/>
copper or bars of copper as merchandise.<br/>
If the price be moderate will purchase<br/>
some of it; but do not circulate a false re-<br/>
port that the government has ordered it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As for forbidding the use of the tin ats and<br/>
consenting that others should bring copper<br/>
ats and sell them to us it cannot be done,<br/>
we cannot allow it. The Siamese have skill<br/>
enough to make copper ats themselves, but<br/>
the copper metal is difficult to be obtained,<br/>
and tin is abundant in Siam. We have a-<br/>
vailed ourselves of the best materials had<br/>
for making ats, and even if people<br/>
easily counterfeit the tin ats, they cannot<br/>
make a great business of it, they cannot<br/>
be made like the royal ats, they are much<br/>
softer and can easily be detected by bend<br/>
ing them with the fingers. And if the peo-<br/>
ple take them as lawful tender let the mint<br/>
so. When they bring them to the royal mint<br/>
to exchange for silver they can very easily<br/>
be tested and proved to be suspicions. The<br/>
mere effort to bend them is enough to show<br/>
what they are made of. The composition<br/>
of the royal ats cannot be cast in the coun-<br/>
terfeiter's molds, because it is made of tin,<br/>
copper, and zinc, a very hard substance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whenever any one shall bring these spru-<br/>
cious ats to the royal mint to exchange for<br/>
silver, they will be easily detected as a very<br/>
slight twist with the fingers will bend them.<br/>
and when such ats are brought they will<br/>
fetch only the value of the tin, which is<br/>
one fuang for 3½ ounces, whereas genuine<br/>
ats will be taken at their established value,<br/>
that is one fuang for eight ats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Do not write any more visionary articles<br/>
on this subject, we are too lazy to read them,<br/>
and if you publish them we shall not be<br/>
ashamed of ourselves, because we know<br/>
that even tin are far better than the old<br/>
fashioned cowries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We intend however to make a variety of<br/>
copper coin, and that quickly—On kind<br/>
will be at the rate of two for one fuang and<br/>
will be called hung or seek, and another at<br/>
four for one fung to be called Ka or Seok.<br/>
These will be ready for use shortly. Now<br/>
do not talk dreamily about this any longer,<br/>
for we are too lazy to read or hear any<br/>
thing more on this subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the Editors of the papers shall get this<br/>
paper, let them publish it—-or if they prefer<br/>
despise them, and manner and continue<br/>
telling their dreams, why, let them mur-<br/>
mur on, we shall not count them offenders.<br/>
if they do so: but we do think that kind of<br/>
dreamy murmuring is useless toil, for there<br/>
is no one of us that will think of following<br/>
them.  It is all of a piece with the telegra-<br/>
phic wires and railroads, which the writ-<br/>
ers on these subject have written to make<br/>
us wonder and astonished, until the subject<br/>
has become quite insipid, and we are lazy<br/>
of reading and later in hearing of the<br/>
subject.  But a little of such curious things<br/>
to amuse ourselves such as balloons and a<br/>
few others, something which we can turn<br/>
to a little profit according to our feeble a-<br/>
bility,-it would be quite reasonable we<br/>
should desire to obtain some of them in<br/>
proportion to the small means of our pover-<br/>
ty stricken country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Look at the Steam Rice and Saw Mills<br/>
here. What a noise has been made about<br/>
them?  And where are the great results of<br/>
it all?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notification.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CHOW PHYA PRAKLANG, Minister for<br/>
Foreign affairs, hereby informs the Consuls<br/>
and Vice Consuls of the Treaty Powers<br/>
resident in Bangkok, that the Siamese<br/>
government has directed him to make<br/>
known unto them the causes and reasons<br/>
of the late changes made in taxing coconut<br/>
trees and oil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Formerly the rate of taxation allowed<br/>
by law upon coconut trees, was fifteen<br/>
cents for 16 trees, and the tax was farmed<br/>
out to one man. After this plan had been<br/>
tried for a time, the oil farmer complained,<br/>
that it was very difficult for him to manage<br/>
the farm, and begged that he might be al-<br/>
lowed to relinquish it, requesting that the<br/>
monopoly of trading in coconuts should<br/>
be given him instead; This was granted,<br/>
and the people were allowed to make oil with-<br/>
out any tax upon it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When Sir John Bowring Minister Plenil<br/>
potentary for Great Britain, and his Assis-<br/>
tant Mr. Harry Parks, came to negotiate<br/>
a treaty between G. Britain and Siam (it<br/>
being the first treaty made with the western<br/>
powers) a consultation was held, among the<br/>
officers of the King of Siam on the subject<br/>
of double taxes; which resulted in a peti-<br/>
tion that hencforth only one tax should<br/>
be put upon each taxable article. This<br/>
petition was granted to a great extent, and<br/>
the tax levied on cocoanuts was removed,<br/>
and the tree taxed at the rate of one salung<br/>
for three trees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the people finding that the tax<br/>
on cocoanut trees was very heavy, were in-<br/>
disposed to plant any more trees. The old<br/>
trees decaying, and the price of cocoanuts<br/>
becoming higher every year, all who had<br/>
to do with either the nut or the oil com-<br/>
plained greatly, until the matter came be-<br/>
fore His Majesty the Supreme King and<br/>
his government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the beginning of the year of the Cow<br/>
the 6th of the decade, it being full 13<br/>
years from the commencement of the pre-<br/>
sent reign, the time deemed suitable for hav-<br/>
ing a new assessment made on taxable mer-<br/>
chandise, a party of officers were sent to<br/>
examine the orchards, and make a new as-<br/>
sessment according to the old custom of<br/>
Siam. This being accomplished, His Ma-<br/>
jesty, together with all his counselors was<br/>
fully persuaded that the people had neglect-<br/>
ed their cocoanut orchards, and had not<br/>
planted new trees because they felt the<br/>
taxes on them to be oppressive; it was<br/>
therefore deemed wise to adopt some other<br/>
plan. To this end it was decreed that the<br/>
tax on the trees be taken off, and the people<br/>
encouraged to plant new ones with all free-<br/>
dom, so that there should have been a hundrance of<br/>
them. And in regard to the revenue.<br/>
which has heretofore been obtained by tax-<br/>
ing the coconuts trees, amounting to 1285<br/>
changs and 33 ticals, it was decided that<br/>
the government, in order to make up in<br/>
part for the loss, put a tax upon the cocoa-<br/>
oil at the rate of one tenth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An offer has already been made for the<br/>
monopoly of this at the rate above specified,<br/>
guaranteeing to pay for the farm the sum<br/>
of 700 changs per annum. This leaves a<br/>
deficiency in the revenue for cocoanut trees,<br/>
amounting to 585 changs and 33 ticals.<br/>
This the Siamese government consents to<br/>
loss, on the principle that it is better to<br/>
suffer the pecuniary lose by removing the<br/>
tax, than than that the article of revenue<br/>
should be injured. And whatever article<br/>
of merchandize or business there may be<br/>
suitable to be taxed, the government must<br/>
seek from it a revenue according to the old<br/>
custom by a monopoly. But there will be<br/>
only a single tax imposed on all the produce<br/>
of the cocoanut tree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the 9th Art. of the treaty regulations<br/>
made by Harry Parks Esq. the following<br/>
clauses is inserted, viz.— "On the part of<br/>
the Siamese, if they have any article in their<br/>
country which has not yet been taxed and<br/>
they think it well to put a tax upon the<br/>
said article or business; they are at liberty<br/>
to do so, and the Siamese government are<br/>
allowed to make new taxes." Mr. Parks<br/>
agreed to this clause, only insisting that<br/>
the taxes be always reasonable and always<br/>
single.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This exposition the Siamese government<br/>
beg to publish that no foreigner shall mis-<br/>
understand the matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Issued on Monday the 8th of the waxing<br/>
moon, 9th month in the year of the Cow<br/>
the 7th of the decade; July 31st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oil Tax
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Phya Racha Pakdee and Phya P'é-Pit<br/>
P'ok'ei recieved a royal command saying,<br/>
that in the year of the Cow the 5th of the<br/>
decade, eight servants of the king examin-<br/>
ed the orchards of the people, and made a<br/>
record of the cocoanut trees in each, and the<br/>
amount of the taxes to be paid upon them<br/>
at the rate of 100 cowries for one tree, and<br/>
this assessment was sent to all the proprie-<br/>
tors of cocoanut trees in the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sometime after this the farmer of cocoa-<br/>
nut oil entered a complaint that the people<br/>
would frequently make coconut oil and<br/>
sell it, and when he sent his officers to take,<br/>
and imprison them, quarrels arose and<br/>
complaints were made by them before the<br/>
tribunals, causing much trouble and loss<br/>
of time to the farmers, and he therefore beg-<br/>
ged that the farm might be removed from<br/>
the oil and put upon the cocoanuts, them-<br/>
selves, giving the farmer the exclusive privil-<br/>
lege of purchasing the coconuts. Having<br/>
had a conference of the royal counselors<br/>
touching this matter, they were unanimous<br/>
in requesting that this change should be<br/>
made, and consequently the petition was<br/>
granted, and it became a law that the farmer<br/>
have the monopoly of the purchase of co-<br/>
coanuts. But (in the year of the great dra-<br/>
gon 8th of the decade,) the farmer did not<br/>
abide by the law concerning it, and pursued<br/>
a course that oppressed the people. There-<br/>
fore the government caused the taxes on<br/>
cocoanuts and on the trees to be removed,<br/>
and placed a tax of one salung on every<br/>
three trees, thus allowing the people to sell<br/>
cocoanuts and oil as they pleased.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the year of the rat 6th of the decade,<br/>
it was found that both cocoanuts and oil<br/>
had become much dearer than before, and<br/>
His Majesty, in considering the subject,<br/>
concluded that the prices had risen partly<br/>
because the coconuts trees had become<br/>
too old to bear, and partly because many<br/>
of them had died. Thus fruit bearing trees<br/>
had become fewer, and moreover the peo-<br/>
ple were not inclined to plant new trees in<br/>
their orchards, fearing the tax of one salung<br/>
for every three trees. Consequently His<br/>
Majesty was graciously disposed, in the<br/>
year of the rat, (last year) to issue a decree<br/>
to all the owners of cocoanut orchards about<br/>
Bangkok, and in all the provinces, who<br/>
were liable to pay taxes on cocoanut trees,<br/>
that from and after the beginning of the<br/>
year of the Cow the 7th of the decade, it<br/>
shall henceforth be forbidden the officers<br/>
in charge to take any tax from the people<br/>
for their cocoanut trees, and that instead<br/>
thereof, a tax shall be put upon cocoanut<br/>
oil as it was formerly. Therefore let all the<br/>
owners of cocoanut orchards replant their<br/>
orchards with new trees in greater abun-<br/>
dance than formerly, and that will become<br/>
a source of wealth to the country, cocoanut<br/>
oil being of great use in the country, and<br/>
it will become a profitalbe article of mer-<br/>
chandise in the provinces of Siam, and a-<br/>
broad in other countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The charge of circulating this decree is<br/>
given to Pra-kaao K'aruratts, hawdee chow<br/>
krom, K'ŏŏn Pê păt-tâna-kawe, palat of<br/>
the left, and Kŏŏu Wësootta palat of the<br/>
right, treasurers for the inner orchards; and<br/>
Lóôang kâao chow krom, Kŏŏn Sĕé Sôm-<br/>
bat palat Krom for the outer orchards.<br/>
Kŏŏn Mŭn nai-rwâng has been put in<br/>
charge of distributing this decree to all the<br/>
owners of cocoanut orchards. Now let there<br/>
be no delay in replanting all cocoanut or-<br/>
chards to the full extent, that the trees may<br/>
be abundant in all alike. And from the be-<br/>
ginning of the year of the Cow the taxes<br/>
on cocoanut trees shall be given as a royal<br/>
favor to the people and owners of cocoanut<br/>
orchards. Let there be no violation of this<br/>
decree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Issued on Monday the 12th of the wan-<br/>
ing moon, 9th month of the year of the<br/>
Rat 6th of this decade. And sealed with the<br/>
seal of Phya Pê-pit Po-kei Aug. 29th 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Elephant Festival.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The grand procession of elephants came<br/>
off according to previous announcements, at<br/>
about 4 O'clock p. m. on Monday 25 ult.<br/>
We were just in time to meet the procession<br/>
on the street in the rear of the Royal Pa-<br/>
lace. It was one of those motley, non-<br/>
descript affairs, we are accustomed to see<br/>
here, and was peculiar in many respects to<br/>
Siam. The object appeared to be to have<br/>
the royal elephants, horas, carriages, cattle,<br/>
&c., sprinkled with holy water. On either<br/>
side of the street, and nearly opposite each<br/>
other were two small stands erected, about<br/>
ten or twelve feet high and upon which<br/>
were three or four men, one of whom had<br/>
a bunch of bamboo splints, in his hand and<br/>
kept sprinkling the passing crowd with the<br/>
consecrated water. Along either side of the<br/>
street filed a line of men, fantastically<br/>
dressed, with a red coat and a glazed hat,<br/>
shaped like a sugar leaf, and resembling a<br/>
Sow-wester. Some of these men carried<br/>
small pendant flags, with all kinds of devices.<br/>
Others carried simply a stick, resembling a<br/>
walking stick, whilst others had bows on<br/>
their shoulders. As they marched along<br/>
they were sprinkled from the stands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between the files of men, and at ir-<br/>
regular intervals marched the royal el-<br/>
ephants with slow and ponderous steps.<br/>
One or two had a kind of howdah or their<br/>
backs, but no person in them. The driver<br/>
sat upon the neck of the animal. Others<br/>
had no hoodlums, but had one or two per-<br/>
sons besides the driver riding on them.<br/>
One large redish coloured one had a kind<br/>
of throne on his back, in which was seated<br/>
a man with a pea-cock tail in each hand,<br/>
and was making all kinds of outlandish gi-<br/>
rations. The elephants numbered about<br/>
thirteen, or nearly as we could count (for<br/>
we forgot to commerce in time), and they<br/>
were made to pass close to each stand to<br/>
get sprinkled. When a few drops fell on<br/>
the riders they rubbed it over their heads and<br/>
faces with most profound reverence. Be-<br/>
hind each elephant were several men walk-<br/>
ing bearing platters, containing plantains,<br/>
nicely prepared sugar cane, &c. to feast the<br/>
royal creatures. Some of the elephants<br/>
were evidently old residents with large<br/>
tusks, which were profusely ornamented<br/>
with heavy rings which were probably gold.<br/>
Along with the elephants were two venera-<br/>
ble looking white monkeys, each seated on<br/>
a pole, carried on mens shoulders. Each<br/>
one of these, too, had his appropriate train,<br/>
and feast following the same as the elephants.<br/>
Next to the elephants came the horses,<br/>
richly decorated with foreign saddles,<br/>
bridles, holsters, and pistols, and each led<br/>
by a groom. Next came a number of emp-<br/>
ty European carriages, drawn by horses<br/>
and the horses led by grooms. Next came<br/>
some reddish coloured cattle and buffalos,<br/>
and in the crowd some where (we forget<br/>
exactly the place) was a highly ornamented<br/>
buffalo cart loaded with persons. We forgot<br/>
to asy that the whole was interspersed with<br/>
discordant sounds of native music. The<br/>
rear was brought up by a flourish by the<br/>
native soldiers. After the procession was<br/>
past His Majesty amused himself for a short<br/>
time by throwing limes, each probably con-<br/>
taining a small coin, down amongst a crowd<br/>
of boys some of whom showed great agility<br/>
in scrambling for them in the mud.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Atlantic Telegraph Expedition.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London Daily News
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing could be more auspicious than<br/>
the weather of yesterday, and certainly<br/>
nothing could be more successful than<br/>
the final splicing of the cable, and the departure<br/>
of the Great Eastern.  From first to last<br/>
there was not a single incident to mar the<br/>
satisfaction of those present, or which could<br/>
be construed into an unfavourable omen to<br/>
the mighty work in hand.  The shore end<br/>
of the cable has been tested every few<br/>
hours in the receiving house at Follihum-<br/>
merum Bay since its submersion, and while<br/>
on board the Caroline the return was only<br/>
seven millions of units to the minute, it<br/>
rose to thirteen millions before the wire<br/>
had been under water 24 hours. This in-<br/>
crease means practically that from one to<br/>
two words a minute can be passed along<br/>
the cable, in excess of what was done before<br/>
the laying; the cold water having increased<br/>
the insularity, and strengthened its already<br/>
splendid condition. The Great Eastern<br/>
was ordered to hold herself in readiness on<br/>
Saturday, and about midnight on that day<br/>
Captain Anderson received a final message<br/>
from Mr. Glass that everything was ready,<br/>
and that the big ship was to steam out to<br/>
the Caroline with all convenient speed.<br/>
The Hawk - a swift screw steamer, built as<br/>
a Confederate blockade-runner, and recently<br/>
purchased by the Telegraph Construction<br/>
and Maintenance Company—left Valentia<br/>
at 9.30 A.M., with Lord John Hay, Sir<br/>
Robert Peel, M.P., the Knight of Kerry,<br/>
and the Misses Fitzgerald, Mrs. Glass, Mr.<br/>
and Mrs. Edwards, Captain and Mrs. White,<br/>
Mr. J. C. Parkinson, and others, on board,<br/>
and after passing Bray-head, and the rugged<br/>
island rocks called the Skelligs about 11 A.<br/>
M., came up to the Great Eastern and<br/>
Caroline soon after one A.M. The day was<br/>
bright and comparatively calm, but as the<br/>
Hawk steamed along the coast and up to<br/>
the bay, at the far point of which the little<br/>
telegraph hut could be seen, a mere white<br/>
dot in the distance, the admirable fitness<br/>
of the landing place chosen was as apparent<br/>
as were the difficulties besetting all at-<br/>
tempts to utilise this rough and dangerous<br/>
coast. The cliffs up which the cable pas-<br/>
ses from the sea the receiving-house are<br/>
more than 250 feet high, but from the deck<br/>
of the Hawk they appeared level with the<br/>
sand, so vast and extensive is the lofty<br/>
range of rocky fastnesses against which<br/>
the Atlantic heavily breaks, and so com-<br/>
pletely do they dwarf all objects in their<br/>
vicinity. Desolate grandeur and terrible<br/>
magnificence are the characteristics of these<br/>
wild Kerry hills. For miles not a house<br/>
nor a human being can be seen. There is<br/>
no sign of cultivation, and no apparent<br/>
probability of cultivation being successful.<br/>
A ruined watch-tower, a lighthouse or two,<br/>
and a deserted and crumbling fort, spoken<br/>
of as Cromwell's, dot the coast line at long<br/>
intervals; but it is manifest that by far the<br/>
greater portion of the land immediately<br/>
above the rocks the sea lashes with so<br/>
much of sullen fury has never been trodden<br/>
by the foot of man. Now rising flush out<br/>
of the water, perpendicular as the Victoria<br/>
tower, now shelving down abruptly, and<br/>
and presenting a smooth and polished sur-<br/>
face to the breakers, and now abruptly<br/>
jutting off into fantastic shapes—-as if some<br/>
wicked genie had determined to realise a<br/>
nightmare, and had put into stone the<br/>
strange figures haunting his unholy sleep—<br/>
these rocks seem to defy science and mock<br/>
at the puny strength and petty resources<br/>
of man. The cormorant may be seen,<br/>
greedily dipping into the waters below<br/>
them, the seagull slowly flits about their<br/>
rugged surface, the plaintive cry of the<br/>
curlew mingles with the roar of the sea,<br/>
and the gannet and puffin dispute for sup-<br/>
remacy over their points and peaks. But<br/>
these are absolutely the only signs of life.<br/>
Neither sheep nor cattle are browsing on<br/>
the bright green patches which alternate<br/>
with the sombre blackness, of the massive<br/>
rocks; and the hissing, seething spray bub-<br/>
bling furiously up through the crevices it<br/>
has forced, and the caves and crags it has<br/>
shaped and broken through long ages,<br/>
alone breaks the stillness, and gives other<br/>
animation to the scene. Such is the stony<br/>
shore holding the English end of the Atlan-<br/>
tic telegraph. Captain White, who is in<br/>
command of the Coast Guard here, devoted<br/>
many days to sounding Foilhum-merun-<br/>
bay, in his self-imposed capacity of honora-<br/>
ry adviser to the company, and at length<br/>
succeeded in hitting upon a natural groove<br/>
in the ground-rock under the sea, about a<br/>
foot deep and half a foot in width.  In this<br/>
the landing end of the cable was carefully<br/>
laid; and the importance of this fortunate<br/>
discovery may be estimated from the fact<br/>
that it is so situate as to preserve the big<br/>
wire from the waves at the very time of<br/>
their breaking against the shingle. This<br/>
wire, which, it should be mentioned, grad-<br/>
ually decreases in size until at the end of<br/>
its 25 miles it is of the same circumference<br/>
and bulk as the one with which it was spliced<br/>
yesterday, is of formidable strength at<br/>
this point, and well calculated to resist<br/>
the hard treatment it will certainly experi-<br/>
ence from the sea. Still, a natural channel in<br/>
which its last twenty feet will lie like a child<br/>
in its cradle is a grand aid to permanence,<br/>
and the company is to be congratulated on<br/>
the result of Captain White's patient and<br/>
persistent soundings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as the Hawk arrived within ear-<br/>
shot of the Great Eastern yesterday, every<br/>
one on board the big ship's tender came<br/>
aft, and Sir Robert Peel gave the signal for<br/>
three cheers, a hearty response so which<br/>
soon came over the water. At this time<br/>
the Caroline was within a few hundred yards<br/>
of the chief cable ship, and half a dozen<br/>
well manned boats, including the two pad-<br/>
dle ones from the Sphinx, were busily en-<br/>
gaged in easing the cable and facilitating<br/>
the splice. From the stern of the Great<br/>
Eastern, a line could be seen, which,<br/>
dropping in the water at an apparently<br/>
sharp angle, was towed by the boats to join<br/>
the Caroline, and made to communicate be-<br/>
tween the two ships. The splicing was pro-<br/>
ceeded with without delay. First the end<br/>
of each cable was divested of its gutta-percha<br/>
coating its outside wires and hemp, and the<br/>
core and marrow of the undertaking, the<br/>
copper conductor, was exposed. Then, by
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_6_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.—The warehousing system is to<br/>
be allowed unlimited scope. The army is to<br/>
be reduced to the ordinary peace footing.<br/>
Various buildings occupied by the military<br/>
at Warsaw during the insurrection are<br/>
forthwith to be given up to their owners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KINGDOM OF ITALY.—Cholera caused proved<br/>
fatal at Ancona in 781 cases up to the 12th.<br/>
The Archbishop and the Procurator Royal<br/>
were among the deaths. All vessels com-<br/>
ing from Italy are placed under quarantine in<br/>
Sicily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE PAPAL STATES.—The Pope has au-<br/>
thorised a new loan of 10,000,000 Roman<br/>
crowns. The papal army is to have an in-<br/>
crease of 3,000 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TURKEY.—The deaths from cholera at<br/>
Constantinople from the 26th ult. to the<br/>
1st inst. were 1,442. The cholera is also<br/>
at Smyrna and Syra. It is disappearing<br/>
from the islands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SPAIN.—It is said that the King was<br/>
closely watched while on his journey to see<br/>
his dying father. The cholera is infecting<br/>
the Spanish ports, and the inhabitants have<br/>
fled from Barcelona in large numbers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PORTUGAL.—The King has recovered<br/>
from his indisposition, and the Queen and<br/>
infant Prince are doing well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—President Johnson is<br/>
still in bed health, and is going to the sea<br/>
seaside. General Grant has left for Quebec.<br/>
Jefferson Davis is better seated, and his<br/>
friends are urging for a speedy trial. Mr.<br/>
Benjamin and General Kirby Smith have<br/>
reached Harpers Ferry. The troops disbanded<br/>
near the end of the war number three quar-<br/>
ters of a million. The Federal debt was<br/>
$2,756,000,000 on the 1st July. A meet-<br/>
ing of sympathy with the Mexican Republic<br/>
has been held in New York, when a letter<br/>
from General Sheridan produced great<br/>
enthusiasm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CANADA.—Sir E. P. Tache, the Prime<br/>
Minister, is dead, and there will probably<br/>
be a reconstruction of the Cabinet, the Con-<br/>
federation question being the turning point.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEST INDIES.—The reports of the crop<br/>
are generally favourable. The Spaniards<br/>
had not carried out the blockade of San<br/>
Domingo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOUTH PACIFIC STATES.—The Chilian Con-<br/>
gress have been reconsidering Art. 5 of<br/>
the Constitution, which acknowledges the<br/>
Roman Catholic faith alone. A fire at<br/>
Valparaiso did damage to the amount of<br/>
$2000,000. The revolution gains ascen-<br/>
dancy in Peru, the fleet having gone over.<br/>
The same is the case in Ecuador, where<br/>
one of the Pacific Steam Navigation Com-<br/>
pany's steamers was seized by the revolu-<br/>
tionist fleet, and made to do good service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COMMERCIAL.—The Bank rate remains at<br/>
4 per cent. Both English and foreign<br/>
securities slightly improved. Consols 89½<br/>
to 89¾. The biddings for India bills took<br/>
place yesterday. Bar silver, 60¾d. Mexi-<br/>
can dollars, 60½d.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_6_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the publc-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MR. A. SAIHTLER,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Begs to inform the inhabit-<br/>
ants of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
arrived here upon a visit, and<br/>
during his stay will be glad to<br/>
take portraits, landscapes and<br/>
views of houses etc. of all sizes,<br/>
to 15 inches. His atelier is at<br/>
Falks Hotel New Road.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING IN SAIGON RIVER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to inform Captains,<br/>
Ship Owners, and Consignees of vessels<br/>
that the S. Sr. "Powerful" 100 Horse<br/>
power will be ready to tow, in a short time,<br/>
Vessels of the largest tonnage in Saigon<br/>
River at moderate rates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Saigon August 29th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DENIS FRERES.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_6_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To be sold without reserve, at<br/>
PUBLIC AUCTION, on Wednes-<br/>
day the 10th proximo, and on one<br/>
or two of the following days,<br/>
at the residence of MESSRS.<br/>
SCHILL MALHERBE & Co.; a<br/>
quantity of valuable jewelry, consisisting of dia-<br/>
monds, Diamond rings, articles cloaked with<br/>
Diamonds, other precious Stones, bracelets,<br/>
necklaces, earrings, gold-brooches, silver, gold<br/>
and diamond buttons, watches, gold chains,<br/>
watch keys and gold ornaments, silver plated<br/>
ware etc. etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A full catalogue of the articles<br/>
to be sold, may be found at the<br/>
house of the said firm, from the<br/>
30th inst., to date of sale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sale will commence on said day<br/>
at 11 A.M. precisely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
C. ACHUNE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
AUCTIONEER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_6_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ex. "Radama" from Lon-<br/>
don.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONSIGNEES of W[...]-100<br/>
casks COAL TAR PITCH are<br/>
hereby notified that the same<br/>
have been landed, and if not<br/>
claimed within seven days<br/>
from this date will be sold<br/>
to defray expenses incurred<br/>
thereon, including freight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN MACKENZIE
MASTER
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok<br/>
27th Sepr. 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A recent attache of the royal Mint, Lon-<br/>
don, recently visited [....] at Philadelphia.<br/>
As he was leaving he remarked to the coiner,<br/>
"When you come to London, I beg you<br/>
not to visit our Mint. You are a hundred<br/>
years in advance of us."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
American Paper.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our "darling Lillie" of three years,<br/>
while trying to get on her stockings one<br/>
day, discovering a few [.......],<br/>
when she exclaimed, "Mother, I think I<br/>
shall be an angel soon, the feathers are be-<br/>
ginning to grow!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An urchin in school reading about a<br/>
singular gentleman, was asked by the<br/>
teacher what the expression meant. The<br/>
boy promptly answered, "A man that <br/>
isn't married?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya arrived at the<br/>
bar at 4¼ o'clock p. m. on Wednesday 27th<br/>
ult. Passengers Capt. Burn, Mr. Barlow and<br/>
Mr. Thomson photographer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-30_8_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r36">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST SEP 30TH 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r37">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r37">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hong Tay Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">306</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Young Hap</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Tweelingen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Bruljins</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">596</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r04">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Prussian barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sinagpore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">British steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Dutch barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">British barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">248</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hartlepool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">355</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh So</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Illus. Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Eames</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Morning Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Lit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">389</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tik Chi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Poop</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
