---
linkTitle: 'March 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 16th'
date: 2025-09-24T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 5
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK THURSDAY MARCH 16TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO.5</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok March 16th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The article, a translation of which is<br/>
concluded in another column, of this issue<br/>
is from the pen of an able writer upon such<br/>
subjects.<br/>
Although like all other translations, when<br/>
they are at all literal, it is necessarily a lit-<br/>
tie dry but apart from this we think it must<br/>
be interesting to all those, who intend to<br/>
remain in Siam any length of time, and<br/>
have a desire to know the different locali-<br/>
ties, and their history.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A mere glance at the river between the<br/>
two palaces, is sufficient to verify the state-<br/>
ment that, that part, is not the natural, but<br/>
is an artificial channel. Although it was<br/>
completed three hundred years ago, the<br/>
evidences are clearly visible. The river is<br/>
narrower there, than those parts immediate-<br/>
ly above and below, and the water flows,<br/>
much more rapidly. All such articles there-<br/>
fore which tend to give information concern-<br/>
ing the country, its topography, names<br/>
manners, and customs &c, must be inter-<br/>
esting to the majority of European readers.<br/>
Every writer however, as well as every in-<br/>
dividual has a hobby. Our learned corre-<br/>
spondent seems to have several hobbies,<br/>
and one of which especially he has ridden<br/>
almost to death. His article commences<br/>
well but before concluding he mounts his<br/>
favorite hobby.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Romanising of Oriental names so long<br/>
as there is no established system, will re-<br/>
main a difficult matter. All attempts too to<br/>
establish a system which will apply to all<br/>
places and all languages, has hitherto<br/>
proved a failure, and is likely to do so for<br/>
some time to come. Not even in any one<br/>
country does there appear to be a system<br/>
universally adopted by all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The early missionaries and even modern<br/>
ones in Siam in writing to their friends<br/>
abroad, have tried to express the Siamese<br/>
names as nearly as possible in Roman<br/>
characters, so that those for whom they<br/>
were intended might if possible have some <br/>
idea of the sound of the Siamese names. <br/>
For this they have been severely blamed by<br/>
the learned writer in question and even <br/>
called a "shallow minded" because they did <br/>
not go back to the Sanskrit. Now the Sans-<br/>
krit although the parent of most Oriental<br/>
languages has long since been a dead lan-<br/>
guage, and indeed it is doubted by some<br/>
able scholars if ever it was a spoken lan-<br/>
guage. There are very few now who<br/>
thoroughly understand it, so that it is no<br/>
indication of a great mind to have a little<br/>
smattering of the Sanskrit. The writer ad-<br/>
mits that most places in Siam have two and<br/>
three names. Those derived from the Sans-<br/>
krit and Bali are generally so long that " a<br/>
forty—horse—power person" would again<br/>
be called into requisition to remember them.<br/>
Few of the Siamese outside of nobility and<br/>
probably a few just out of the voats who<br/>
have a little smattering of Bali, and like to <br/>
spout it, know any thing about them. The<br/>
Siamese names are shortest and generally<br/>
most appropriate. The time is past when<br/>
the world will delight most in high sound-<br/>
ing names and titles. Many of these<br/>
vulgar names have already gone out to the<br/>
world and are established upon the maps of<br/>
geographers, and to attempt to change them <br/>
now would create a revolution. As well<br/>
attempt to turn Siam up side down as to<br/>
change Meinam to Chow-Phya, Bangkok<br/>
to T'on boore, or Paknam to Samutts-Pra-<br/>
kan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those places however which have not<br/>
already gone out into the world, should<br/>
have established names at once. Let those<br/>
whose business it is give them the shortest<br/>
possible names, so that foreigners may not<br/>
break their Jaws in attempting to pronouce<br/>
them and let those names be established<br/>
and understood by all. It matters little<br/>
to the outside world whether it is P'rip-p'ri<br/>
P'at-p'ri or P'etchaburi so as there is some-<br/>
thing established. And let not men of<br/>
good education be called shallow minded<br/>
for much trifling causes for it is beneath the<br/>
dignity of a great mind to quible on such<br/>
little things.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
THE CITY OF DIAMONDS
For The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our last left us in Rahaang or Muang<br/>
Tak as it is known in Siamese history and<br/>
in all official documents. It is the most<br/>
northern Siamese city on the route, being<br/>
by some regarded as the most Southern of<br/>
the Laos towns. This I think is incorrect,<br/>
though more than half of the inhabitants<br/>
are Laos and Peguans. But the governor<br/>
and most of the officials are Siamese from<br/>
Bangkok, which is not the case in the cities<br/>
north of it, and even the Laos portion of<br/>
the population are not under his juris<br/>
diction, but under that of the governor of<br/>
Chieng-Tawng, a small Laos town on the<br/>
opposite side of the river a little lower<br/>
down. It is a very pleasant site for a city<br/>
with a mountain range to the north and a<br/>
single mountain before and another behind<br/>
it. It probably has tene or fifteen thousand<br/>
inhabitants. But its principal interest to<br/>
us was as the terminus of our boat route,<br/>
and we were prepared to give it a good<br/>
name had we been hastened on our journey<br/>
thence. But in this it most signally failed<br/>
at first, though it redeemed its credit some<br/>
what in our estimation before leaving it.<br/>
In our twenty three days of travel thus far<br/>
(by mistake stated in my last to be twenty<br/>
seven) we had our own carrings, team,<br/>
driver, whip, and spur. We started when<br/>
ready and traveled till hunger or weariness<br/>
compelled us to stop. Except where we<br/>
had to yield to the deceptive river, we<br/>
had no earthly master to drive or hinder<br/>
us. Here we began to experience a new<br/>
class of annoyances. Henceforth we were<br/>
at the mercy of Siamese, and Laos officials<br/>
in neither of whom, as every body knows,<br/>
are punctuality or speed cardinal virtues.<br/>
No amount of fretting or hurrying or scold-<br/>
ing could get us along beyond a certain<br/>
pace. We had a letter to the governor,<br/>
kindly given by the authorities of Bangkok.<br/>
We found him very pleasant and apparently<br/>
disposed to aid us. But he had not been<br/>
there very long and the most of the busi-<br/>
ness was in the hands of the Palat. The<br/>
latter evidently felt his importance, and<br/>
wished to make us duly sensible of it too,<br/>
and was up to a speculation out of our<br/>
haste. After being cajoled for more than<br/>
half a week, and giving up in despair of<br/>
obtaining elephants, and deciding to walk,<br/>
a favorable change at length took place in<br/>
our prospects,and we were offered elephants<br/>
to T'ôn, with a letter to the Governor of<br/>
that place with instructions to forward us<br/>
to Lakon, and so on to Chieng-Mai.<br/>
Whether the Governor was moved with<br/>
pity at the idea of our walking, or was<br/>
afraid some difficulty might grow out of it<br/>
necessitating his coming down to Bangkok.<br/>
I do not know, I am inclined to put the<br/>
favorable construction on it, so far as he<br/>
was individually concerned, and think it<br/>
was a kind act done from a kind motive.<br/>
He said that the Siamese, and Laos, are<br/>
very extortionary and the latter would take<br/>
us out of their power, while we still might<br/>
pay whatever was proper. At any rate we<br/>
felt quite satisfied to get off quite comfort-<br/>
ably by waiting only from Thursday till<br/>
Tuesday. I have since been informed by<br/>
a gentleman who made the same trip, that<br/>
he was detained there eleven days.<br/>
    It was nearly mid-day before our drivers<br/>
and guides got their rice, and tobacco and<br/>
betel, for their journey all ready and our<br/>
own portables were all stored away on<br/>
these ships of the mountains and forests,<br/>
as the camel is of the desert, and we our-<br/>
selves were mounted in fine spirits, in our<br/>
lofty howdah. Elephant riding is very<br/>
nice so long as its romance continues.<br/>
When that is gone it is still better than<br/>
walking if one is sick or tired, but I would<br/>
by no means choose it for pleasure for fif-<br/>
teen days. We often rested the wearisome<br/>
feeling produced by the peculiar swinging<br/>
motion of their gait by a walk. On two<br/>
occasions we paid dear for it too by getting<br/>
separated from them while taking a short<br/>
cut in the road. Once it was about nine<br/>
or ten in the morning and we never saw<br/>
them again till we came to our camp at<br/>
night wearied and hungry and thankful for<br/>
a travelers repose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few miles north of Rahang the river<br/>
forks, the Quaa Ping the left and largest<br/>
branch going on to Chieng-Mai, while the<br/>
Quaa Wang the right leads on to T'on and<br/>
Lakon. Had we continued up the Quaa<br/>
Wang the road would have been straighter<br/>
and shorter. But our guides were afraid<br/>
of the tigers on that route and took a more<br/>
circuitous one. Crossing the main river<br/>
below the fork, we ascended on the west<br/>
side of the Quaa Ping to T'o Poole. Here<br/>
we forded the Quaa Ping and crossed over<br/>
the country to the Quas Wang which we<br/>
never touched till just below Muang T'on.<br/>
We thus had to make our way, across<br/>
brooks, creeks and rivers and along the<br/>
outskirts of the great Teak forests some-<br/>
times by obscure paths but seldom traveled<br/>
and over hills and mountains. The view<br/>
from the top of one of these mountain<br/>
ridges was exquisitely beautiful. It was<br/>
near the Quaa Ping which wound its way<br/>
along its base, while beyond it to the right<br/>
and also to the left, rose range after range<br/>
with occasional peaks more lofty than the<br/>
rest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was while crossing these mountain<br/>
heights, or going down some perpendicular,<br/>
river bank that we began to respect so<br/>
highly the sagacity of the noble elephant.<br/>
On first approaching them we thought our<br/>
bones were too precious to be treated on<br/>
such clumsy looking animals up and down<br/>
their steep sides. We were at first simple<br/>
enough to think of dismounting to lighten<br/>
the burden of the noble beast. Had he<br/>
known our thought he would probably<br/>
have replied as the ox to the fly in the<br/>
fable. You soon learn to repose with con-<br/>
fidence on his judgment and sagacity as<br/>
well as strength. He does not put his<br/>
large foot down without a careful calcula-<br/>
tion as to its safety. When he does you<br/>
may know it is sure. By means too of his<br/>
long proboscis he gathers food from both<br/>
sides of the road and can thus travel all<br/>
day without hunger.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We usually pitched our tent at night in<br/>
some deep forest by a running brook or<br/>
bank of a river. Some of the men spun<br/>
yarns and kept watch while others altern-<br/>
ately amused and annoyed the sleepless<br/>
ones of our company by their loud<br/>
Stentorous sounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Either anxiety about an absent family<br/>
or the excitement of traveling or sleeping<br/>
in strange place or some other cause pre-<br/>
vented some of us from getting enough of<br/>
"weary natures balmy restorer" sleep. All<br/>
the recipes we had ever heard for courting<br/>
her gentle slumbers failed. We recited the<br/>
multiplication table, counted by the hun-<br/>
dred, said the Lord's Prayer, listened to<br/>
the gentle flow of water along some mur-<br/>
muring brook or down some majestic water<br/>
fall. I once had a lady friend who found<br/>
prayer an unfailing means of conciliating<br/>
her favor. The philosophy of it according<br/>
to her explanation was that then the evil<br/>
one was sure to put her to sleep. And<br/>
although it would not be pleasant to have<br/>
one's lullaby sung by his satanic majesty<br/>
yet the weary mind and body would some-<br/>
times hardly refuse the boon from most<br/>
any quarter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We reached T'on on Saturday P.M. in<br/>
time to present our letter and make arrange-<br/>
ments for starting a Monday. That is as<br/>
long as any one would care to stay there.<br/>
It is situated on the left bank of the Quaa<br/>
Wang. There is nothing inviting in or<br/>
about the place except the mountains rising<br/>
in amphitheatral order to the East. Ones<br/>
first impressions of a Laos town derives<br/>
from it are not very favorable. There is<br/>
very little evidence of even the neatness<br/>
and thrift sometimes seen about Siamese<br/>
homes. It has probably somewhere be-<br/>
tween three and five thousand inhabitants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By means of a little decision and the aid<br/>
of our letter we got off pretty punctually<br/>
by noon on Monday. We had but little to<br/>
interest us outside of the ordinary routine<br/>
of travel between that place and Lakon.<br/>
There is a more direct road to Chieng-Mai<br/>
by Muang Lee, but it is more mountainous<br/>
and dangerous and but little to be seen<br/>
besides. We decided to go by Lakon and<br/>
reached there on Friday morning. Our<br/>
fare on this portion of the journey was the<br/>
worst of any. We could not even get any<br/>
rice fit to eat but the glutinous kind of<br/>
which we were afraid to partake. What<br/>
we did get was some thing less than a cen-<br/>
tury old. It was worse for us also because<br/>
neither of us was perfectly well and not<br/>
very well qualified to relish any thing.<br/>
Our road lay on each side of the Quaa<br/>
Wang. A very marked improvement in<br/>
the country is observed as you proceed.<br/>
It is a fine country for some distance before<br/>
reaching the city. The houses are compar-<br/>
atively neat and comfortable. We first<br/>
noticed here a curious custom of stacking<br/>
the rice, till ready to be threshed, in the<br/>
forks of the trees. Here also we first met<br/>
several long droves of oxen in single file,<br/>
their burdens being carried in double<br/>
baskets placed like a pair of saddle bags<br/>
across their backs. The front one or lead-<br/>
er always has a mask fancifully made of<br/>
shells to cover the whole face with a large<br/>
pea-cock's tail extending up from it between<br/>
the horns and waving rather comically and<br/>
rather gracefully over the back. Every<br/>
thing that is not carried on elephants is<br/>
carried in these baskets all through the<br/>
Laos country. Thousands of them are to<br/>
be seen daily at Chieng-Mai. Often most<br/>
of the drove have little bells similar to<br/>
sleigh bells fastened all over them, which<br/>
adds a little to the life of the place. We<br/>
saw several very large Teak rafts on the<br/>
river below the city waiting for the rising<br/>
water to be floated down to market. On<br/>
new years morning the walls of Lakon<br/>
came in sight, where the kind Governor<br/>
furnished us with some excellent rice and<br/>
a nice pig for a new years dinner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours
D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
A TRANSLATION
Continued from page 33.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the reign of Phya Tak-sin became<br/>
established, what is now called Bangkok<br/>
was denominated Kröng T'on-buree, and<br/>
sometimes Nâkawn T'on. But after the head<br/>
of the present royal family became king,<br/>
and removed the walls of the old city Ay-<br/>
uthia, and built with them a new city and<br/>
royal palace on the other side of the river,<br/>
—he being the founder, was pleased to give<br/>
it the name Kröng Râtanâ-Kosîn-t'ârâ-<br/>
Mâhîn-t'âra Yoot'îya. There are still writ-<br/>
ten documents extant referring to distil-<br/>
leries of Kröng Râtanâ Kosîn-t'ârâ, and<br/>
to gambling establishments of Kröng Rât'a-<br/>
nâ-Kosîn-t'ârâ &c. But at this time the<br/>
common use of the name has disappeared;<br/>
its use being found only in some public docu-<br/>
ments. The city is now called Kröng<br/>
T'êp'-Mâhâ-Nakawn only from the custom<br/>
of so calling the northern capitals. Any<br/>
city becoming the capital of the kingdom<br/>
was thus named. So it was with regard to<br/>
the capital of Chôw Oo-t'awng which is<br/>
now denominated K'ee-pom; it was anciently<br/>
called Kröng T'êp'â-Mâhânâ-k'awn, which<br/>
being translated into Siamese, would be<br/>
the great city (or royal city) where the<br/>
Lord of the great city resides. But if the<br/>
word Krông be translated strictly accord-<br/>
ing to the original, it means River. Hence<br/>
whoever was Lord of a river from its mouth<br/>
to its sources, that man was called Chów<br/>
Krông (Lord of the river). And the city<br/>
which he made his residence, was hence<br/>
denominated Krôông. The name of the<br/>
capital written เทพมหานคร in this way,<br/>
is in perfect accordance with the San-<br/>
skrit. But pupils of Laos tongues read it<br/>
incorrectly. The true sounds of the San-<br/>
skrit are given in the old manner of Ro-<br/>
manizing the name as follows—Devama-<br/>
hangara, but the following gives an incor-<br/>
rect representation of the Sanskrit—Debia-<br/>
mahangara. This name written in Siamese<br/>
is กรุงเทพมหานคร ฯ but at the present<br/>
day the Siamese generally write it in a short<br/>
way like this กรุงเทพ ฯ, Foreigners now<br/>
call the capital of Siam as they hear the<br/>
common people speak it, saying—go to<br/>
Bangkok, come from Bangkok, live in<br/>
Bangkok. This is now the name used by<br/>
nearly all classes of the people. No one<br/>
finds fault with it, because it is pure Siamese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But correctly speaking, Bangkok proper<br/>
is that part only included between the<br/>
mouths of Bangkok-yai, and Bangkok-noi<br/>
creeks; because other parts are called by<br/>
other names, as Sâm plûm, Sâm-p'ong,<br/>
K'avk-k'wai, Sâm-re, Dow-k'ânawng, &c.<br/>
The reason for calling the whole of the area<br/>
included by these several places Bangkok,<br/>
is because they are all closely connected,<br/>
being, as it were, one continuous city from<br/>
Bangkok proper; and therefore they are<br/>
all included now in the name Bangkok from<br/>
K'avk-k'wai to Sâm-sên, or rather from<br/>
Dow-k'ânawng up to Bang-p'loo and Bang-<br/>
p'lāt. But these places were anciently cal-<br/>
led Sōōăn-nei (inner plantations) from<br/>
Tălăt-k'wăn down to Păklāt; and the plan-<br/>
tations on the Măăklawng were called the<br/>
Sōōăn-năwk (outer plantations). But at<br/>
the present time, the people call the Sōōăn-<br/>
nei Bangkok, and the Sōōăn-năwk they<br/>
call Bang-ch'ang. Now the town of Bang-<br/>
ch'ang has a little creek so shallow, that in the<br/>
dry seasons the water of the river does not<br/>
flow into it. That creek is called Bang-ch'ang.<br/>
But why the whole of that district should<br/>
be called by the same name, a good answer<br/>
cannot be given.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In short, the proprietor of this city has<br/>
given it the name Rátnák Kosin-t'ârá-Mâ-<br/>
hin-t'âra-Yoôt'âya. The ancient name of the<br/>
place was Tonbooree, and the revered<br/>
name is Krông Têp'k-Mâhâ-nâk'awn. But<br/>
the inhabitants of the city and out of the<br/>
city, seeing that these names are spoken<br/>
with some difficulty, prefer to call the place<br/>
Bangkok, following the custom of the mas-<br/>
ses of the people. And the name Bangkok<br/>
has become fixed on maps of the country.<br/>
It is hence proper to use this name without<br/>
any gainsaying—it is quite right. And in<br/>
regard to the towns Pâkkât and Pâknám,<br/>
they have royal names given to them, yet<br/>
the people persist in calling them by their<br/>
vulgar names, and so do all Foreigners. Let<br/>
it be so—it is quite correct that they should<br/>
be so called because they are names easily<br/>
learned. The name Ch’ach’ong-sow is Cam-<br/>
bodian: but all the people call the place<br/>
Păăt-rew, and hence Foreigners call it the<br/>
same. It is a name easily spoken, and it<br/>
is right that it should be so called follow-<br/>
ing the masses of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But as to the city P'etch'ārā-booree the<br/>
masses of the people in all parts call it<br/>
P'rīpp'ree or P'et-p'ree. The name P'et-<br/>
ch'ārā booree is Sanskrit, a royal name<br/>
given to the place the same as T'on-booree,<br/>
Non-booree, Nāk'awn-K'ūn-k'ān, Sāmōōtā-<br/>
pra-kān, and Ch'ā-Chōug-sow. Now if<br/>
Māhā-nāk'awn, be called Bangkok and the<br/>
others names respectively called Tālāt-<br/>
k'wān, Pākĭāt, Pāknăm, and Păăt-rew,<br/>
it is proper that P'etch'ārā-booree should<br/>
follow suit, and be called by her vulgar<br/>
name P'rīp p'ree or P'et-p'ree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now that the company of teachers and<br/>
printers should coin a name purporting to<br/>
be after the royal style and yet do not take<br/>
the true Sanskrit, seems not at all proper.<br/>
In trying to Romanize the name P'etch'ărá-<br/>
booree they place the mark over the ă thus<br/>
P'etch'ă-booree making Foreigners read<br/>
it P'etch'ă-booree following the utterances<br/>
of old dunces in the temples, who boast<br/>
that they know Balăm Băli, and not satis-<br/>
fied with that, they even call the place City<br/>
P'et setting forth both the Băli and the<br/>
meaning of the word: and thus boasting<br/>
greatly of their knowledge and of being a<br/>
standard of orthography for the name of<br/>
that city.<br/>
Now what is the necessity of coining<br/>
another name like this! There is no occa-<br/>
sion for it. When the name is thus in-<br/>
correctly printed, persons truly acquainted<br/>
with Sanskrit and Bali (for such there are<br/>
many in other places) will say that those<br/>
who write or print the name in this way,<br/>
must be pupils of ignorant teachers—blind<br/>
leaders, not following the real Sanskrit in<br/>
full, taking only the utterances of woods-<br/>
men, and holding them forth (as the cor-<br/>
rect way.) In following such sounds they<br/>
cannot be in accord with the Sanskrit, and<br/>
they will conclude that the name is Siam-<br/>
ese. Whereas in truth it is not Siamese.<br/>
The true Siamese name is P'rip-p'ree or<br/>
P'et-p'ree. It matters not what letters are<br/>
used to express it,—follow your own mind;<br/>
but let the sound come out clear and ac-<br/>
curate either P'rip-p'ree or P'et-p'ree and<br/>
it will be true Siamese. But the mode of<br/>
writing and printing the name P'etchaboo-<br/>
ree, adds the letter A and marks over it and<br/>
other marks in two places, resists the eye<br/>
and the mouth greatly. Whatever be done<br/>
in this matter let there be uniformity. If<br/>
it be determined to follow the vulgar mode<br/>
of calling the name, let that be followed out<br/>
fully and accurately; but if the royal mode<br/>
be prefered, let the king be sought unto<br/>
for the proper way of writing it which shall<br/>
be in full accordance with the Sanskrit.<br/>
And should this happen not to be like the<br/>
utterances of the people in the Temples the<br/>
difference can not be great. And persons<br/>
acquainted with Sanskrit will be constrained<br/>
to acknowledge, that yon do really know<br/>
Sanskrit; and comparing the corrected with<br/>
the improper mode of Romanizing will<br/>
praise you for the improvements which you<br/>
have made. Such persons there are a few,<br/>
not ignorant and blind leaders and dunces<br/>
like the inmates of the temples and of the<br/>
jungles and forests, but learned in the San-<br/>
skrit and residents in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Do not boast that you know a little San-<br/>
skrit as do the printers, who explain the<br/>
name P'etchabooree, and call it the City<br/>
P'et.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gems from a philosophic mine (mind.)<br/>
"We must go back in the history of mind,<br/>
till we have reached the time when it was<br/>
not yet clothed in things external, if we<br/>
would see all that material nature is to the<br/>
human soul."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Nukprat" in "Siam Times."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is a longer trip backward then I had<br/>
ever thought any mere man had ever at-<br/>
tempted, and I am puzzled to know where<br/>
to look for this time in the history of mind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps our philosopher is a transmi-<br/>
grationist, and the time intended, is after the<br/>
soul has left one material body, and is pois-<br/>
ing on the wing just ready to enter another.<br/>
If at such a moment the soul be conscious<br/>
of its previous experience in the material.<br/>
I fancy its sensations would often be far<br/>
from agreeable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nukprat tells us that this backward trip<br/>
in mental history "requires neither the<br/>
analysis of the philosopher, nor the imag-<br/>
ination of the poet." If this be so, I sug-<br/>
gest that he take the trip himself, and give<br/>
us his experience on his return. I am sure<br/>
it will make a sensation article.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The mind of man in the first stages of<br/>
his existence, like his body, possesses noth-<br/>
ing but life."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
NUKPRAT
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Will Nukprat please tell us how many<br/>
stages there are in man's existence, when<br/>
they begin, and when end, in which either<br/>
mind or body has nothing but life?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Experience is the best teacher, even in<br/>
philosophy, and as the body must be a-<br/>
mong what, in his very philosophic style,<br/>
Nukprat calls the "tangible developements<br/>
of the infinite" or one of its "ultimates"<br/>
perhaps he will consent to bring us in tan-<br/>
gible connection, with a human body in<br/>
some one of its first stages when it posses-<br/>
ses nothing but life. It might serve to<br/>
make us better acquainted with that mys-<br/>
tery we call life. Shall we have the exper-<br/>
ement?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Consistency is a jewel," is and old pro-<br/>
verb. Here is a gem of that sort from Nuk-<br/>
prat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
" Man destitute of revelation, has in all<br/>
ages, and in all circumstances failed to pen-<br/>
etrate beyond the physical developements<br/>
of nature by which he was surrounded.<br/>
Though we must by no means suppose that<br/>
the revelation of the true God to man,<br/>
was first made to Abraham. LONG PRIOR to<br/>
Abraham The Most High God possessor of<br/>
heaven and earth was worshipped, aye, and<br/>
that too, in Sodom, the king of which, Mel-<br/>
chiscedec was His priest and who blessed<br/>
Abraham even before his call. How long<br/>
a period it took for this pure spiritualism<br/>
to be developed, history tells us not. We<br/>
are left to mere conjecture, But when we<br/>
consider the slow progress of human ideas,<br/>
we may infer that it took thousands of<br/>
years to being it to this stage."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here certainly is a singular union.<br/>
We are first told that man alway ; and<br/>
under all circumstances destitute of revel-<br/>
ation, has failed to penetrate beyond the<br/>
physical and reach the spiritual idea of a<br/>
true God; we are then informed of that<br/>
wonderful fact in history, that the revel-<br/>
ation of the true God was not first made to<br/>
Abraham.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I wonder if Nukprat ever heard of Adam,<br/>
Enoch, or Noah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And last of all we are told that this pure<br/>
spiritualism was developed, by the slow<br/>
progress of human ideas during thousands<br/>
of years. Now if it was revealed it did not<br/>
require thousands of years to be developed.<br/>
If it was developed by the progress of hu-<br/>
tional ideas during thousands of years, it did<br/>
not require to be revealed. Perhaps Nuk-<br/>
prat can logically and metaphysically"<br/>
develope the golden thread of unity in the<br/>
above passage. But if there is one it lies<br/>
beyond my depth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Historic Gems
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No. 1 "Melchisdec was king of Sodom,<br/>
and blessed Abraham even before his call."<br/>
See Above.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No. 2. "Abraham the father of the faithful<br/>
was prepared to offer up his only son as a<br/>
victim, in obedience to the teachings and<br/>
practices of the sun worshippers."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No. 3. "The incense offered by the Jews,<br/>
and by the Roman Catholics, had its origin<br/>
in the original worship of the sun."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Nukprat
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As President Lincoln would say; these<br/>
historic gems, remind me of an anecdote<br/>
told of a certain professor in a theological<br/>
school. The students were required to<br/>
prepare and deliver, before the assembled<br/>
class, short trial sermons. The professor<br/>
who presided over the exercise made such<br/>
criticism upon each discourse as he thought<br/>
best and then told the class monitor to call<br/>
the next speaker. Upon one occasion a<br/>
young man, evidently conscious of his sup-<br/>
erior ability, entertained his fellow students<br/>
by an ambitious discourse on the history of<br/>
the creation. The professors only com-<br/>
ment was, "The young man beats Moses,<br/>
call the next."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our philosopher evidently beats Moses,<br/>
and it is about time to call the next. But<br/>
before dismissing him, I wish to inquire,<br/>
upon what data he makes Buddhism four<br/>
thousand years old. And upon what author-<br/>
ity he make Sutteeism to "exist in one of<br/>
its purest forms, and in all its integrity in<br/>
China to the present day."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If after the perusal of the above speci-<br/>
mens, any still doubt Nukprats eminent<br/>
qualification, to lecture the public generally,<br/>
and propagandists in particular, on Pagan<br/>
philosophy, I must refer them to his writ-<br/>
ings, where may be found other gems of<br/>
equal brilliancy to reward the labor of those<br/>
who will dig for them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
C.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Police Cases,
FROM 1ST TO 12TH MARCH 1865.
REPORTED BY S.J.B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Assault & Battery</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Child Stealing</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Drunkeness</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Resisting the Police</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">in the execution of their duty.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_5_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
REMARKS ON CAMBODIA
FROM THE JOURNAL OF
M. Henri Mouhot.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A knowledge of Sanskrit—of "Pali," and<br/>
of some modern languages of Hindustan<br/>
and Indo-China, would be the only means<br/>
of arriving at the origin of the ancient peo-<br/>
ple of Cambodia, who have left all these<br/>
traces of their civilization, and that of their<br/>
successors, who appear only to have known<br/>
how to destroy, never to reconstruct. Until<br/>
some learned archæologist shall devote<br/>
himself to this subject, it is not probable<br/>
that aught but contradictory speculations<br/>
will be promulgated. Some day, however<br/>
the truth will surely appear, and put them<br/>
all to flight, I myself, having nothing but<br/>
conjecture to rest upon, advance my own<br/>
theory with diffidence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nokhor has been the centre and capital<br/>
of a wealthy, powerful, and civilized state,<br/>
and in this assertion. I do not fear contra-<br/>
diction from those who have any knowledge<br/>
of its gigantic ruins. Now, for a country<br/>
to be rich and powerful, a produce relative-<br/>
ly great and an extended commerce must<br/>
be presumed. Doubtless, Cambodia was<br/>
formally thus favored and would be so at<br/>
the present, under a wise government, if<br/>
labor and agriculture were encouraged, and<br/>
not despised. If the ruling power exercised<br/>
a less absolute despotism, and above all, if<br/>
slavery were abolished—that miserable in-<br/>
stitution which is a bar to all progress,<br/>
reduces man to the level of the brute, and<br/>
prevents him from cultivating more than<br/>
sufficient for his own moral wants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greater part of the land is surpris-<br/>
ingly fertile, and the rice of Battambong is<br/>
superior to that of Cochin-China. The<br/>
forests yield precious gums, gum-lac, gam-<br/>
boge, cardamums and many others, as well<br/>
as some useful resins. They likewise pro-<br/>
duce most valuable timber, both for home<br/>
use, and for exportation, and dye wood is<br/>
in great variety. The mines afford gold,<br/>
iron, and copper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fruits and vegetable of all kinds abound,<br/>
and game is in great profusion. Above all<br/>
the great lake is a source of wealth to the<br/>
nation; the fish in it are so incredibly abun-<br/>
dant, that when the water is high they are<br/>
actually crushed under the boats, and the<br/>
ply of the oars is frequently impeded by<br/>
them. The quantities taken there every<br/>
year, by a number of enterprising Cochin-<br/>
Chinese, are literally miraculous. The river<br/>
of Battambong is not less plentifully stock-<br/>
ed, and I have seen a couple of thousands<br/>
taken in one net.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Neither must I omit to mention the<br/>
various productions which form so import-<br/>
ant a part of the riches of a nation, and<br/>
which might be here cultivated in the<br/>
greatest perfection. I would especially in-<br/>
stance cotton, coffee, indigo, tobacco, and<br/>
the mulberry, and such spices as nutmegs,<br/>
cloves, and ginger. Even now all these are<br/>
grown to a certain limited extent, and are<br/>
allowed to be of superior quality. Sufficient<br/>
cotton is raised to supply all Cochin-China<br/>
and to allow some being exported to China<br/>
itself. From the little islands of Ko Sutin<br/>
above, leased to the planters by the king<br/>
of Cambodia, the transport of the cotton<br/>
produce alone, employs three hundred ves-<br/>
sels. What might not be accomplished if<br/>
these were colonies belonging to a country<br/>
such for example, as England, and were<br/>
governed as are the dependencies of that<br/>
great and generous nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A glance at the map of Cambodia, suffices<br/>
to show that it communicates with the sea<br/>
by the numerous mouths of the Mekong,<br/>
and the numberless canals of lower Cochin-<br/>
China, which was formerly subject to it ;<br/>
with Laos, and with China by the great river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These facts being established, whence<br/>
came the original inhabitants of this coun-<br/>
try? Was it from India, the cradle of civi-<br/>
lization, or was is from China? The lans-<br/>
guage of the Cambodians, is that of the old<br/>
Cambodians, of Khedome, as they call the<br/>
people who live retired at the foot of the<br/>
mountains, and on the table lands, and it<br/>
is too distinct from the Chinese to render<br/>
the latter supposition possible. But whether<br/>
this people originally came from the north<br/>
or from the west, by sea, and gradually<br/>
making their way up the rivers, or from<br/>
the land, and descending them, it seems<br/>
certain that there must have been here other<br/>
ancient settlers, who introduced Buddhism<br/>
and civilisation. It would appear as though<br/>
those had been succeeded by some barba-<br/>
rous race, who drove the original inhabitants<br/>
far into the interior, and destroyed many<br/>
of their buildings. At all events, it is my<br/>
belief, that without exaggeration the date of<br/>
some of the oldest parts of Ongcor the Great<br/>
temalo atond at more than two thousand<br/>
years ago; and the more recent portions<br/>
not much later. The state of decay of<br/>
many of these structures would indicate even<br/>
a greater age ; but they probably date from<br/>
the dispersion of the Indian Buddhists,<br/>
which took place several centuries before the<br/>
Christian era, and which led to the expatri-<br/>
ation of thousands of individuals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All that can be said respecting the present<br/>
Cambodians, is that they are no agricultural<br/>
people, among whom a certain taste for art<br/>
still shows itself, in the carved work of the<br/>
boats belonging to the better classes, and<br/>
their chief characteristic is unbounded<br/>
conceit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not so among the savages of the east<br/>
called by the Cambodians their elder broth-<br/>
ers. I passed four months among them,<br/>
and arriving direct from Cambodia, it seem-<br/>
ed like entering a country comparatively<br/>
civilized.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great gentleness, politeness, and even<br/>
sociability, which, to my fancy, bore evid-<br/>
ence of a past refinement, struck me in<br/>
those poor children of nature, buried for<br/>
centuries in their deep forests, which they<br/>
believe to be the largest portion of the<br/>
world; and to which they are so strongly<br/>
attached, that no inducement would tempt<br/>
them to move.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When looking at the figures on the bas-<br/>
reliefs at Ongoor. I could not avoid re-<br/>
marking the strong resemblance of the faces<br/>
to those of these savages. And besides the<br/>
similar regularity of feature, there are the<br/>
same long beards, straight langoutis, and<br/>
even the same weapons, and musical in-<br/>
struments.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
FOR BANGKOK RECORDER
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr Editor,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nukprat the astute philosopher of the<br/>
"Siam Times" seems to have had his<br/>
equanimity somewhat disturbed by your<br/>
correspondent Novice. Your correspon-<br/>
dent's pen was evidently not nibbed with <br/>
a diamond, nor dipped in rose water;<br/>
and it is possible he may be more familiar<br/>
with the quadrant and chart, than with the<br/>
author's pen, he might find it less difficult<br/>
to navigate a tempest tost ocean than a<br/>
metaphysical quagmire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But whether "scurrility" is the appro-<br/>
priate epithet to be applied to his article <br/>
your readers can judge. Whether or not<br/>
the charge of "ignorance" comes with a<br/>
good grace from Nukprat, may be safely <br/>
left to any intelligent reader who has at-<br/>
tempted to follow him through his philoso-<br/>
phic speculations. Novice at least appears <br/>
to know what he wishes to say, and this <br/>
I think is much more than can be truthfully <br/>
said for Nukprat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But will our philosopher condescend to <br/>
the ignorance of his readers, who have not <br/>
yet reached the profound depth of his <br/>
metaphysical speculations, and tell us how <br/>
long or how high, his "one step from pure <br/>
Buddhism to Christianity" is. And how <br/>
long it will take a man of ordinary human<br/>
ability to accomplish it; or to put it in an-<br/>
other form, will he show us " logically and <br/>
metaphysically" how long according to the <br/>
laws of "natural spiritualism" it will take <br/>
to develope a good Christian out of a pure <br/>
Buddhist?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
INQUIRER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_5_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
To Clear a Room of Mosquitoes.—I have tried<br/>
the following, and find that it "works like a charm;"<br/>
Take of gum camphor a piece about one-third the<br/>
size of an egg, and evaporate it by placing it in a tin<br/>
vessel and holding it over a lamp or candle, taking<br/>
care that it does not ignite. The smoke will soon<br/>
fill the room and exped the mosquitoes. One night,<br/>
not long since, I was terribly annoyed by them, when<br/>
I thought, and tried the above, after which I neither<br/>
saw nor heard them that night, and the next morning<br/>
there was not one to be found in the room though<br/>
the window had been left open all night.—
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are “Three Old Men” who, at<br/>
the present time, are prominently before<br/>
the gaze of the world. One of them is<br/>
Leopold, the King of the Belgians, once<br/>
the handsome and youthful husband of the<br/>
long lamented Princess Charlotte of Wales.<br/>
He is the Nestor of Continental politicians;<br/>
he alarms no one ; he is, as to bearing and<br/>
influence, at onco conciliatory and com-<br/>
manding. If in the heart of Napoleon and<br/>
the French nation there is a secret craving<br/>
after the annexation of Belgium, it is Leo-<br/>
pold who stops the way, and causes the<br/>
solution of the question to be postponed.<br/>
He has this Autumn been at Biarritz with<br/>
the Emperor Napoleon, and shares with<br/>
Lord Clarendon the credit of having<br/>
brought favorable pressure to boar on many<br/>
difficult questions. His daughter-in-law is<br/>
an Austrian princess, and so is listened to<br/>
at Vienna. The Queen of England<br/>
receives him at Osborne House, in the<br/>
sorrow of her widowhood finding comfort<br/>
from his fraternal presence and sympathy ;<br/>
and in matters political she and her Privy<br/>
Counsel weigh well his counsels. He has<br/>
a great horror of war, and has ere now<br/>
been tho conducting rod that has convoyed<br/>
a lightning bolt innoxious to the earth,<br/>
to be seen no more. The King of tho Bel-<br/>
gians is liberal and Anti-Jesuit; yet even<br/>
the Romish priests do not insult him, and<br/>
all parties are willing “ to wait.” He has<br/>
a wonderful discernment of human charac-<br/>
ter and motives. He owes the protraction<br/>
of his life to a surgeon in London, Dr.<br/>
Fergusson, (a Scotchman,) on whom, as a<br/>
successful operator, the grateful King has<br/>
lavished gifts. Well might he do so, for life<br/>
is sweet, even to the old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second of the three old men, for<br/>
whom, like the other two, Europe waits<br/>
postponing a final solution of great ques-<br/>
tions fill death has done its work—is Pope<br/>
Pius the Ninth. He was a liberal once,<br/>
and the hopes of young Italy wore swelling<br/>
and lofty as to a now era, in which Cathol-<br/>
icism, freedom, and commercial prosperity<br/>
were all to bo linked in choral dance and<br/>
song—the shootings of the vintage. The<br/>
gladness of the harvest home at hand.<br/>
But he “back recoiled'’’ at the sound of his<br/>
own armor, and by attempted compromises,<br/>
and final submission to the Jesuite and<br/>
Antonelli, he grew obstinately passive to<br/>
every proposal of reform—non possumus<br/>
being the cry. At present be is troubled<br/>
by the Italian Convention. It was not<br/>
expected. " Take any form but that," (the<br/>
King of Italy, the excommunicate," to<br/>
be, forsooth, his protector!) and my firm<br/>
nerves should never tremble."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lord Palmerston, the last of the " three<br/>
old men," like the other two, profoundly<br/>
acquainted with the political condition of<br/>
every country in Europe. He has never<br/>
been a bigoted Tory ; he was always the<br/>
friend of the enslaved and oppressed; he<br/>
dislikes and discountenances bigotry of all<br/>
kinds, and is singularly free from bitterness<br/>
in manner or speech. See him, as I have<br/>
done, at his official residence, receiving a<br/>
Deputation protesting against the opening<br/>
of the Crystal Palace on the Lord's day,<br/>
end mark that diplomatically fixed, yet<br/>
soft blue eye, which seems so passionless<br/>
that no one could ascertain from it what his<br/>
sympathies were. It is the result of long<br/>
diplomatic experience
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London Cor. of Presh Banner
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
TOM THUM IN PARIS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Paris correspondent of the daily news<br/>
says, I must put on record that I have this<br/>
day had an interview with General Tom<br/>
Thum, Mrs Thum, the baby, and the babies<br/>
aunt Miss Minnie, I received a polite note<br/>
from the Generals private secretary intimat-<br/>
ing that although the public receptions<br/>
were over the "family" would have the<br/>
pleasure of receiving myself and wife. at a<br/>
public interview. In a handsome drawing<br/>
room, No. 95, on the third floor of the Hotel<br/>
du Souvre, we found the interesting party.<br/>
The only visitors besides ourselves, were<br/>
the Peruvian minister with his wife and two<br/>
ladies. The General, who has long been<br/>
well known in Europe, is in splendid health;<br/>
his manners are affable and unaffected, and<br/>
his toilet unexceptionable. His wife is<br/>
really pretty, and like her Lilliputian sister,<br/>
Miss. Minnie, remarkable intelligent. But<br/>
the lion of the party was the baby, a little<br/>
girl twelve months old looking the picture<br/>
of health, and without exaggeration, ex-<br/>
tremely beautiful. The face has nothing of<br/>
the dwarf about it, but my observations,<br/>
that she looked as big as an ordinary child,<br/>
was not approved by the secretary, who<br/>
assured me her weight was something very<br/>
far below the average, and lifting up the<br/>
expensive lace frock, showed me her little<br/>
feet in red morocco shoes, which are not<br/>
larger than those of a moderate sized doll.<br/>
My inquiries whether the child was expected<br/>
to grow up a dwarf met with the cautious<br/>
answer that there was "no precedent."<br/>
This is I believe true. There is I am pretty<br/>
sure no instance of such a small couple as<br/>
Tom Thumb and wife, having been the pro-<br/>
genitors of a child. I venture to prophecy<br/>
however that Miss Minnie Stratton, (that<br/>
is the name of the infant) will if she lives<br/>
to attain her majority, be nearer the ordi-<br/>
nary size of mankind than her parents, I do<br/>
not believe in the foundation of a race of<br/>
pygmies. The General is going to leave<br/>
Paris almost immediately, to fulfil an en-<br/>
gagement in England—He has not seen<br/>
the Emperor on this occasion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Rangoon Times records an at-<br/>
tempt to reform Buddhism made by some<br/>
of the chief Phoongyeen of Kemmendine.<br/>
Like the Protestants of Christianity and<br/>
the Brahmists of Hindooism, the reformers<br/>
seem to go back to their oldest books or<br/>
Bedagat, the three series of which minutely<br/>
describe the duties of priests and laity and,<br/>
and define the objects of faith. They condemn<br/>
the lax practices of this degenerate age,<br/>
such as priests wearing sandals carrying<br/>
umbrellas, and visiting religious theatreical<br/>
shows. The new sect seems to be the Quakers<br/>
of Buddhism. At the bottom of their re-<br/>
forms, ludicrous as they appear, there is<br/>
doubtless much Puritan earnestness. They<br/>
call themselves "Soolay Gander." Soolay<br/>
meaning the great spirit to whom the pago-<br/>
da in the centre of Rangoon is dedicated.<br/>
In Hindooism some new and earnest sect,<br/>
like the Religious Orders of Romanism, is<br/>
always rising. But it is a new theory to<br/>
see a development of earnestness within so<br/>
apathetic a crred as modern Buddhism.<br/>
We notice in the Rangoon papers the<br/>
death of Mrs. Vinton, the widow of the late<br/>
well-known American Missionary, the Rev.<br/>
Justus Vinton. The deceased and her hus-<br/>
band were distinguished by their ministra-<br/>
tions among the Syam Karens among whom<br/>
they had established schools and founded<br/>
a church.<br/>
The King of Siam's Consul at Rangoon, a Mr.<br/>
E. Fowle, writes his Majesty a curious letter acknow-<br/>
ledging the receipt of two autograph letters of the<br/>
King, and two Photographic likenesses addressed<br/>
to the Commissioner of British Burmah, and to Colo-<br/>
nel Fytche, Commissioner of Tenasserim. Besides<br/>
acknowledging them he takes the opportunity of<br/>
sympathizing with his Majesty on the death of his<br/>
"beautiful white female elephant," a misfortune<br/>
which they had not as yet experienced in Burmah.<br/>
They had however a very heavy shock of an earth-<br/>
quake recently in that province, which may be sup-<br/>
posed to counterbalance the public calamity caused<br/>
by the death of the elephant in Siam. On the whole<br/>
the letter is a remarkable production, coming from<br/>
an educated Englishman.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_6_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Kurrachee Paper mentions the sudden dis-<br/>
appearance of one the Maldive Islands, a hundred<br/>
miles from tho Malabar coast. The Raja of Con-<br/>
nanore has lost three lakhs of rupees rental per year,<br/>
and some fisliermen who returned from sea found<br/>
the homes they had left in the morning gone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
From the friend of India.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 14th January,1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
Underwriters.<br/>
    Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Union Hotel.
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
P. CARTER, 
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Oriental Hotel.
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
From the London Daily News
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Report of the Secretary of the Navy in America,<br/>
which has for several days occupied a large space in<br/>
our columns, is more than the mere official summary<br/>
of a department, it is a document of historical in-<br/>
terest. It narrates the steps by which, in less than<br/>
four years of actual war, a navy of prodigious<br/>
strength has been created by a State which previ-<br/>
ously was content with the establishment of a fourth-<br/>
rate marine power, and which, by the outbreak of<br/>
hostilities, was deprived almost entirely of even its<br/>
existing fleet. Money, we are in the habit of saying,<br/>
will do any thing, and the doctrine is a comfortable<br/>
one to those who esteem theirs the wealthiest of na-<br/>
tions. But it is not the least remarkable part of the<br/>
story told by the American Naval Secretary that<br/>
this extraordinary development has been accom-<br/>
plished at a very moderate cost. The total amount<br/>
expended in the four years is only about fifty-five<br/>
millions sterling. In the mere maintenance of a fleet<br/>
actually existing we have in the same period spent<br/>
about forty-five millions. Undoubtedly there is a<br/>
lesson in these figures. It may well startle us to<br/>
find a first-class naval power spring into existence<br/>
at so short notice, but it is still more calculated to<br/>
make us ponder when we find that its fleet has been<br/>
built, manned, maintained on a war footing, occu-<br/>
pied in blockading a coast as long as that from<br/>
Gibraltar to the North Cape, employed in the cap-<br/>
ture of several strongly fortified ports on the enemy's<br/>
seaboard, and in carrying on at the same time a war<br/>
in an inland navigation of many thousand miles, and<br/>
that all this, subject to the immense disadvantage<br/>
of compulsory haste, of dislocated commerce and a<br/>
depreciated currency, has been done for only ten<br/>
millions more than our own Admiralty have in the<br/>
same period spent in keeping up a mere peace es-<br/>
tablishment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The actual results effected by the American Ad-<br/>
ministration need, however, a closer examination to<br/>
show us their true magnitude. When war broke<br/>
out, in the early summer of 1861, the chief naval<br/>
yard, and the best of the vessel on the home station,<br/>
fell into the power of the Confederates. At the same<br/>
time the available number of seamen was reduced<br/>
to 200. Under these circumstances, the first object<br/>
of the Administration was to procure men and ships.<br/>
The former could only be slowly drawn from the<br/>
Merchant Service; for a seaman cannot, like a sol-<br/>
dier, be made by a few weeks' drill. The latter<br/>
could not be built at once, and so a large number<br/>
were purchased from the Mercantile Marine. With<br/>
these means the blockade was instantly declared.<br/>
Nor, though reaching over an extent of 3,500 miles<br/>
of dangerous coast, broken up by innumerable in-<br/>
lets, and comprising a number of excellent ports,<br/>
was it ever possible for the neutral Powers to object.<br/>
to it as not effectual. No doubt there was, as there<br/>
always is in such cases, plenty of blockade running,<br/>
as there is plenty of smuggling, in spite of the most<br/>
efficient preventive service, when the rate of prices<br/>
offers a sufficient temptation; but gradually, as the<br/>
number of vessels in the blockading force became<br/>
larger, and as the fleet successively captured the<br/>
entrances to Port Royal, New Orleans, Charles-<br/>
ton, and Mobile, the range of blockade running be-<br/>
came more limited, till it is now almost confined to<br/>
Wilmington. Mr. Welles assigns the following as<br/>
the reasons why this port has so long resisted the<br/>
efforts of the blockading squadron:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The two main entrances are forty miles apart, and<br/>
these two are subdivided into several others, each<br/>
of which affords an entrance to vessels. The water<br/>
shoals gradually and regularly to the shore line, and<br/>
numerous isolated batteries are erected along the<br/>
coast, so that a blockade runner of light draught is<br/>
not under the necessity of making directly for the<br/>
entrance, but can, by the lead, run close under the<br/>
land protected by the batteries, and pass in over<br/>
the bar at leisure. When coming out, a steamer<br/>
will select her own time, thus securing every advan-<br/>
tage, and she can pass either up or down the coast<br/>
before making an offing, or she may proceed straight<br/>
out to sea, trusting for her escape to the night and<br/>
favouring darkness and mist, and the fact that she<br/>
is under full speed, while the steamer's blockading<br/>
must have low steam."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the fleet, such as it was, operated not merely<br/>
on the sea coast. Squadrons of gunboats, many of<br/>
them originally passenger steamers, were organized<br/>
in the inland waters; and as soon as the fall of New<br/>
Orleans, in the spring of 1862, opened the mouth of<br/>
the Mississippi, these gunboats patrolled the whole<br/>
navigable length of that river and its affluents. It<br/>
will be remembered what important service they<br/>
rendered in the reduction of Fort Donelson, Mem-<br/>
phis, and Vicksburg, as well as the part which their<br/>
heavy guns played in may of the actions fought be-<br/>
tween the contending armies of the west. This in-<br/>
land fleet now consists, we are told, of more than<br/>
100 vessels. The service is in some respects one of<br/>
peculiar difficulty. The vessels are liable to be at-<br/>
tacked by shore batteries, or field guns, and subject<br/>
to be stranded by the sudden falling of the rivers.<br/>
The ingenuity of Colonel Bailey, of the Engineers,<br/>
on one occasion rescued the flotilla which had be-<br/>
come thus embayed on the Red River, by construct-<br/>
ing a series of dams, which, something on the princi-<br/>
ple of salmon ladders, created artificially a sufficient<br/>
depth of water to float the vessels over the bar. A<br/>
mode of warfare requiring resort to such expedients<br/>
would undoubtedly seem strange to any of our Eu-<br/>
ropean admirals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While such use was made in the meantime of the<br/>
resources at once available, every effort was em-<br/>
ployed to push forward the construction of a larger<br/>
and more formidable fleet. From the want of a<br/>
navy yard, it was necessary to trust almost entirely<br/>
to private contractors, who, it seems, have not al-<br/>
ways fulfilled their contracts with punctuality. And<br/>
as the tables given in the report afford no means of<br/>
distinguishing vessels completed from those under<br/>
construction, it is impossible to state accurately the<br/>
present strength of the navy of the United States.<br/>
But it may be pretty safely assumed that most of<br/>
the vessels now under construction will be hastened<br/>
so as to be finished within the ensuing year, and we<br/>
may, therefore, take the statement as representing<br/>
what the force will be by the end of 1865. It ap-<br/>
pears that the United States navy will then com-<br/>
prise 671 vessels, of a gross tonnage of 510,396 tons,<br/>
and carrying 4,610 guns. Of these there are 125<br/>
steamers especially constructed for the navy, a-<br/>
mounting to 221,108 tons burden, and carrying 1,930<br/>
guns—the guns, it must be remembered, being of<br/>
a weight not known in any European service. There<br/>
are besides 71 iron-clads, of 80,596 tons and 275 guns.<br/>
Nor must it be supposed that either class comprises<br/>
only vessels fitted for coast service. There have<br/>
been constructed, since 1861, 17 screw steamers of<br/>
above 3,000 tons and from 17 to 23 guns, 11 of above<br/>
2,000 tons and 8 to 13 guns, 20 of from 1,000 to 2,000<br/>
tons and 8 to 16 guns, and 35 of from 500 to 1,000<br/>
tons and 4 to 8 guns. Of the iron-clads, two are sea-<br/>
going turret ship of 4,800 tons. The rest of the iron-<br/>
clads are, with but two exceptions, turret ships, but<br/>
are only intended for service on the coast or inland<br/>
waters. But it is highly important for us to observe<br/>
that the Americans, who have had very ample op-<br/>
portunities of considering the merits of this class of<br/>
vessels, seem to have decided that they are prefer-<br/>
able for all purposes, and this in spite of defects in<br/>
construction which Captain Coles has been able to<br/>
avoid. And it may be also noted that they have<br/>
behaved even better than their commanders dared<br/>
to anticipate, having maintained without loss their<br/>
position in the Charleston Channel for seventeen<br/>
months, although a former admiral of the squadron<br/>
had reported they could not be depended on for<br/>
such service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All these are facts which it will become us to pond-<br/>
er, certainly in no spirit either of hostility or of fear,<br/>
but that we may measure the shortcomings of our<br/>
own naval administration by the achievements of our<br/>
American kinsmen. The story is one which Mr.<br/>
Welles may be pardoned for narrating in language<br/>
somewhat more pompous than is usually found in<br/>
our own State documents, for it is certainly one of<br/>
very singular energy and success. And if unhap-<br/>
pily the American SECRETARY of the NAVY weaves<br/>
into it some useless and irritating reproaches against<br/>
our share in the exploits of the Alabama and the<br/>
blockade runners, which have been so sore a thorn<br/>
in his side, we shall be better occupied in taking the<br/>
beam out of the eye of our own Admiralty, than in<br/>
extracting from his the mote that in some degree<br/>
blinds him to the facts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
NEVADA.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between years, the admission of a new State into<br/>
the Union, presenting at long intervals, was quite<br/>
an event in our national history. The preliminary<br/>
steps were chronicled and the principles involved<br/>
were discussed in the public press, and sometimes<br/>
formed the themes of embittered controversy in<br/>
political assemblies and in legislative balls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But of late so engrossed has been the public mind<br/>
with military campaigns and a Presidential canvass,<br/>
that little attention has been given to the circum-<br/>
stance that another star has been added to the<br/>
national constellation. Nestling amidst the gulches<br/>
of the American Alps, and isolated in its remote<br/>
mountain fastnesses from its sister States, a hardy<br/>
population has erected itself into another sover-<br/>
eignty, and has inscribed its name—Nevada—The<br/>
Snowy—upon the rocky peaks whose hidden riches<br/>
have attracted the enterprising emigrant to their<br/>
sides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This Switzerland of America, elevated some five<br/>
or six thousand feet above the level of the sea,<br/>
possesses a physical conformation peculiar to itself.<br/>
Stretching from the Humboldt Mountains on the<br/>
East to the Sierra Nevada on the West, (from the<br/>
115th to the 120th degree of longitude West from<br/>
Greenwich,) and extending from North to South<br/>
(from the 43d to the 37th parallel,) between divid-<br/>
ing ranges that separate the tributaries of the<br/>
Columbia from those of the Colorado, the drainage<br/>
of its own mountain streams is necessarily inward,<br/>
where they are collected into numerous lakes, or<br/>
lose themselves in spongy sands. In our school-<br/>
boy days this whole district was conveniently<br/>
marked in our school-atlas as a "vast unexplored<br/>
region," in the midst of which was located a lake,<br/>
only partially defined upon the map, as one upon<br/>
whose shores some daring adventurer had stood,<br/>
but whose circuit had never been made. Often<br/>
amidst the dry details of bounding the older States,<br/>
and designating their well-known rivers and moun-<br/>
tains, our youthful imagination would wander off<br/>
to that mysterious lake, would complete the circuit<br/>
of its unknown shore, would penetrate the dim sur-<br/>
rounding region, and thread the deepest recesses<br/>
of its undiscovered hills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Even yet a large portion of Nevada might well be<br/>
marked upon the map as "unexplored," the brief<br/>
period of its settlement not having sufficed for a<br/>
full exploration of a territory nearly one-third larger<br/>
than all the New-England States combined, and<br/>
immensely more difficult to traverse. Intersected<br/>
by numerous parallel ranges of barren hills, extend-<br/>
ing from North to South, too many mountain bar-<br/>
riers have presented themselves to the toil-worn<br/>
emigrant from the Eastern States to admit of a<br/>
thorough examination of the whole country; and<br/>
wherever the latest discovery of the precious ore<br/>
promises the most abundant return for his labor,<br/>
thither the new-comer turns his steps. As a home<br/>
for the agriculturist, Nevada is not so tempting as<br/>
California. It has its fertile valleys and its grassy<br/>
fields, suitable for pasturage, but its mountains are<br/>
in general sterile and its plains barren. As a reg-<br/>
ion it would be pronounced forbidding, and its pro-<br/>
minent characteristic would be sterility.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The history of California and Nevada has strick-<br/>
ingly exemplified the amazing capabilities of our<br/>
country for rapidity and yet permanence of develop-<br/>
ment, wherever an inviting field has been opened<br/>
up to American enterprise. Four years ago Neva-<br/>
da contained a population of some six thousand;<br/>
two years ago, twenty-five thousand; last year, at<br/>
a general convention election, nearly eleven thou-<br/>
sand votes were polled; and now, though her pres-<br/>
ent population has not been stated, she places her<br/>
star as the thirty-sixth upon our national ensign.<br/>
Her rapid growth, as in the case of California, is<br/>
due of course to the constant stream of immigration<br/>
which at once set in, upon the discovery of her as-<br/>
tonishing mineral resources. In these she is per-<br/>
haps unexcelled by any portion of our country.<br/>
Gold, silver, quicksilver, iron, coal, and salt, are<br/>
said to abound in the utmost profusion and of the<br/>
finest quality. Almost fabulous stories have been<br/>
told of the wealth of this modern Ophir; and after<br/>
all requisite abatement has been made, enough<br/>
remains, of a well-authenticated character, to justify<br/>
the popular estimate of its unparalleled mineral<br/>
wealth. A year ago one hundred and twenty-five<br/>
quartz-crushing mills were in operation, erected at<br/>
a cost of from $10,000 to $100,000 each, driven by<br/>
water or by steam. The ore yields at an average<br/>
of $50 per ton, and the production is at least $15,<br/>
000,000 of the precious metals per annum.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
From Presbyterian Banner
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
A History of P'ra-pra-t'on Chedee.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The history of the P'ra-pra-t'on Chedee<br/>
is involved in much darkness. It is report-<br/>
ed that a finger-ring has been found in dig-<br/>
ging there, which bears indubitable marks<br/>
of having been made more than 800 years<br/>
ago. There appears to be no written do-<br/>
cument extant which throws any light upon<br/>
the question, when and why that Pagoda<br/>
was made. But there are various traditions<br/>
touching these questions; the one which most<br/>
interested the writer is, that that was once<br/>
the seat of a Rajah's rale called Phya P'an,<br/>
—that all the plains of Siam, were then<br/>
divided among many petty chiefs who were<br/>
frequently at war with one another—that<br/>
on a certain time, a collision took place<br/>
between Phya P'an and his son Phya Kong,<br/>
when being seated each on his elephant,<br/>
they fought with each other—and that the<br/>
son by one stroke of his lance severed the<br/>
head of his father from his body, and hence<br/>
won the day. But he, not long afterward,<br/>
became greatly distressed in mind at the<br/>
thought, that he had thus killed his father.<br/>
Having suffered a long time with the bitter-<br/>
est remorse on that account, a Buddhistic<br/>
oracle at length extended to him the com-<br/>
forting thought, that he might do much to<br/>
atone for his sin of patricide, by erecting on<br/>
the spot where his father fell, and also the spot<br/>
where Buddh once slept, a Pagoda reaching<br/>
above the highest flight of doves, and in<br/>
shrining in it a bit of the most sacred relics<br/>
of Buddha. With this oracle Phya Kong<br/>
was delighted, and in obedience to it he<br/>
gave all his great wealth and after life.<br/>
The present Governor of Saigon, Admiral<br/>
de la Grandière, is an enlightened and liber-<br/>
ally disposed man, and the colony is likely<br/>
to florish under his rule. He publishes a<br/>
monthly journal called the Courrier de<br/>
Saigon, devoted entirely to local news.<br/>
The last number we have seen is dated the<br/>
5th of November, and it contains some in-<br/>
formation which adds to our knowledge of<br/>
the country. The Chinese are making ex-<br/>
cellent colonists—"they have undertaken<br/>
the reconstruction of Cholen, and in six<br/>
months they have created a new town.<br/>
They are trying to substitute steam barges<br/>
for the slow junks for transport on the rivers.<br/>
They have also spontaneously instituted a<br/>
school for the French language at their own<br/>
cost.” With such help in their work, the<br/>
French will soon make rapid advances.<br/>
The Courier points out the immense<br/>
facilities presented by the harbor of St.<br/>
James, and justly says that it “offers the<br/>
only point between Singapore and Hong-<br/>
Kong where vessels can run with perfect<br/>
safety, for refuge bad weather, with<br/>
facilities for refitting.” In October last the<br/>
accounts shewed a surplus of a million<br/>
francs. Eigtheen schools have been esta-<br/>
blished, and we are told "conversions are<br/>
numerous, now that the natives appreciate<br/>
the greatness and the excellence of Chris-<br/>
tian morality. " The only item of polithe-<br/>
news confirms all that we have said above<br/>
regarding Cambodia. It appears that the<br/>
Governor of Saigon had some suspicion that<br/>
a secret treaty had been entered into be-<br/>
between the King of Cambodia and the King<br/>
of Siara. He therefore sent for the former<br/>
monarch, and the King reached Saigon on<br/>
the 25th of October. He renewed the pro-<br/>
fessions of his fidelity to the French and<br/>
seems to have satisfied Admiral de la Gran-<br/>
diére. The minor incidents of his visit are<br/>
set forth by the Courier in a passage with<br/>
which we shall conclude this article :-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"He contemplated the portrait of the Emperor<br/>
for a long time with attention and respect, but was<br/>
only withdrawn from it, to admire that of the Em-<br/>
press. He visited all the different establishments<br/>
and made numerous enquiries regarding what he <br/>
saw, and especially as to objects which he thought<br/>
might be useful in his own country. He was partic-<br/>
ularly impressed by the Imperial printing office<br/>
and the electric telegraph. He had his portrait<br/>
taken by photography and made purchases in the<br/>
different shops, not forgetting some articles of fash-<br/>
ion, destined no doubt to set off she beauty of the<br/>
ladies of the Court of Houdon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Friend of India
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
On the 5th instant the residents of Lahore and<br/>
Umriteur met Sir Robert Montgomery at a farewell<br/>
entertainment. Mr. McLeod presided. Speeches<br/>
were made by the Judicial Commissioner in propos-<br/>
ing the health of the guest of the evening, by Mr.<br/>
McLeod in speaking of the Viceroy, by Mr. M.<br/>
Cooper, C. B., in proposing the Army and Navy, and<br/>
by General Cumynghame in replying. On Saturday<br/>
lest Sir Robert received the chiefs and gentlemen of<br/>
the Lahore Division at a farewell durbar, at which<br/>
the Rajah of Kuppurtulla, K. S. I., was present.<br/>
Immediately after, a deputation from the missionsaries<br/>
in the Punjab of all sects asked permission to present<br/>
him with a clock and a Bible accompanied by an ad-<br/>
dress in which they eulogised his impartial adherence<br/>
to the principles of religious neutrality—*an ad-<br/>
herence which was restored to Native Christians<br/>
rights too long ignored by Christian Rulers,"—and<br/>
the aid he had extended to email European com-<br/>
munities, in the erection of Churches. In reply Sir<br/>
Robert Montgomery, said:—"I value the addresses<br/>
most highly, as coming from a body of earnest and<br/>
faithful men, unconnected in any way with the Gov-<br/>
emment Service, who have devoted their lives to the<br/>
highest interests of the people, and for whose un-<br/>
wearied and self-denying labors I have been a wit-<br/>
ness. To you belongs the credit of having been the<br/>
pioneers of Education in this, as in other parts of<br/>
India; and, at the present time, some of the great<br/>
flourishing Educational Institutions in the province<br/>
and conducted by members of your body." Sir Ro-<br/>
bert Montgomery left the Punjab on Tuesday last,<br/>
and the day after observed as a holiday to enable all<br/>
classes to witness his departure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Friend of India
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
FORCE OF IMAGINATION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many years ago a celebrated Continental<br/>
physician, author of an excellent work on<br/>
the force of imagination, being desirous to<br/>
add experimental to his theoretical know-<br/>
ledge, made application to the Minister of<br/>
Justice to be allowed an opportunity of prov-<br/>
ing what he asserted, by an experiment on<br/>
a criminal condemned to death. The Minis-<br/>
ter complied with his request, and delivered<br/>
over to him an assassin, a man who had<br/>
been born of distinguished parents. The<br/>
physician told him that several persons who<br/>
had taken an interest in the family, had<br/>
obtained leave of the Minister that be should<br/>
suffer death in some other way than on the<br/>
scaffold, to avoid the disgrace of a public<br/>
execution, and that the easiest death he<br/>
could die would be by blood-letting. The<br/>
criminal agreed to the proposal, and count-<br/>
ed himself happy in being freed from the<br/>
painful exposure to which he would other-<br/>
wise have been subjected, and rejoiced at<br/>
being thus enabled to save the feelings of his<br/>
friends and family. At the time appointed,<br/>
the physician repaired to the prison, and the<br/>
patient having been extended on a table,<br/>
his eyes bound, and everything being ready,<br/>
he was slightly pricked near the principal<br/>
vein of the legs and arms with the point of<br/>
a pin. At the four corners of the table were<br/>
two little fountains filled with water, from<br/>
which issued small streams, falling into ba-<br/>
sins placed there to receive them. The<br/>
patient, thinking that it was his blood that<br/>
trickled into the basins, became weaker and<br/>
weaker by degrees ; the remarks of the<br/>
medical men in attendance, in reference to<br/>
the quality and appearance of the blood<br/>
(made with that intention ), strengthened<br/>
the delusion, and he spoke more and more<br/>
faintly, until his voice was at length scarcely<br/>
audible. The profound silence which reign-<br/>
ed in the apartment, and the constant drop-<br/>
ping of the fountain, had so extraordinary<br/>
an effect on the brain of the poor patient,<br/>
that all vital energy was soon gone, and,<br/>
although before a very strong man, he died<br/>
without having lost a single drop of blood.<br/>
Imagination has always been found a pow-<br/>
erful agent in the production or aggravation<br/>
of disease. Indeed, the fact has passed<br/>
into a proverb.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kyam Ali deceased, Notice is hereby<br/>
given, that all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands against the estate<br/>
of Kyam Ali, Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th of February<br/>
last, intestate, are hereby required to send<br/>
the particulars in writing of their claims to<br/>
the undersigned the Administrator, on or<br/>
before the 31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said administrator<br/>
will proceed to distribute the estate and<br/>
effects of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having regard only<br/>
to such claims of which he shall then have<br/>
had notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dated at the British Consulate
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Siam. March 14th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(s.d.) Thomas George Knox
H. B. M. Consul
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Bangkok Recorder Shipping List, March 10th 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">299</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Feb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Stelise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Angle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Wilson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">255</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Meklong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Kross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">494</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Water Lilly</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Davis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Miuna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">395</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Anglia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Wilson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">225</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Sonrabays</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r80">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Eclipse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Comman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Amer.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_10_2 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Bella Donna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Hammon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r71">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">299</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Eclipse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Cammon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pob Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Euphratos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Behmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kiem Thay Rhien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Reyneart</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">283</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Peru</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Treulsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pearl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Paret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.;</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_10_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
ITEMS,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the Supreme King is enjoy-<br/>
ing himself these evenings upon the New<br/>
Road. He starts out about 5 o'clock P. M.<br/>
and returns about 10 P. M. It is to be<br/>
hoped the presence of His Majesty may<br/>
have a salutary effect upon some of the pro-<br/>
ceedings in that quarter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Projected Internal Improvements.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The return of His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King from his journey by way of Nak'awn-<br/>
Chai-S66, is likely to prove beneficial to the<br/>
country. We learn upon pretty good auth-<br/>
ority that there is in serious contemplation<br/>
the cutting of a large canal direct to the<br/>
sugar regions in Ta-Chid. The contem-<br/>
plated canal is to start from the neighbor-<br/>
hood of Bang-Chak on the Klawng Bang<br/>
Hlaung. They also contemplate the con-<br/>
struction of a carriage road from Bang-<br/>
kok to Nak'awn-Chei-S66. These would<br/>
be quite an undertaken, but if completed<br/>
would be permanent blessings to the coun-<br/>
try. If they are undertaken it is to be hoped<br/>
they will be carried through.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_10_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Mons. G. Lamache
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
    Wishing to retire from<br/>
Business, Will sell by PUBLIC<br/>
AUCTION, At 11, A. M. on<br/>
Tuesday 21st, and Wednes-<br/>
day 22nd Inst the following<br/>
Goods, Viz: Candles, Biscuits,<br/>
Preserved Vegetables, (in<br/>
French tins,) Sardines, Pre-<br/>
served Fruits, Hats, Portfolios,<br/>
Albums, Mirrors, Sofas, Man-<br/>
darine Dresses, Gold Belts,<br/>
Leather Belts, Epaulets, Gold<br/>
Band, Swords in Boxes, Revol-<br/>
vers (New System,) Gilt sticks,<br/>
Mershaum pipes, Clocks,<br/>
Rings, Bracelets, Pins, Violet<br/>
Mirrors, Paper, Envelopes, &c,<br/>
&c, &c, and a great variety of<br/>
Fancy articles. The SALE<br/>
will take place at the Resi-<br/>
Dence of Mons Lamache, op-<br/>
posite the palace of His Ma-<br/>
jesty the Major King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms, Cash.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-16_10_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Patience is but lying to, and riding out the gale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A contemporary, noticing the marriages of deaf<br/>
and dumb couple, wished them unspeakable bliss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Douglas Jerrold once said to an ardent young<br/>
gentleman, who was anxious to see himself in print.<br/>
"Be advised by me, young man ; don't take down<br/>
the shutter before there is something in the win-<br/>
dow."<br/>
A person complained to Dr. Franklin of having<br/>
been insulted by one who called him a scoundrel.<br/>
"Ah," replied the doctor, "and what did you will<br/>
him?" "Why," said he, "I called him a scoundrel,<br/>
too." "Well," resumed Franklin, "I presume you<br/>
both spoke the truth."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Jenkins was dining at a very frugal table,<br/>
and a piece of bacon near him was so very small,<br/>
that the lady of the house remarked to him, "Pray,<br/>
Mr. Jenkins, help yourself to the bacon: Don't be<br/>
afraid of it!" "No, indeed, madam—I've seen a piece<br/>
twice as large, and it did not scare me a bit."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A shopkeeper purchased of an Irishwoman<br/>
a quantity of butter, the lumps of which, intended<br/>
for pounds, he weighed  in the balance, and found<br/>
wanting. "Sure it's your own fault if they are<br/>
light," said Biddy, in reply to the complaints of the<br/>
buyer: "it's your own fault, sir; for wasn't it with<br/>
a pound of your own soap I bought here myself that<br/>
I weighed them with?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A letter of credit was demanded of M. de Roths-<br/>
child for the Empress, the terms of which it was de-<br/>
sired should be different to the ordinary letter of<br/>
credit. M. de R., who has a witty turn, it appears,<br/>
though he might afford, from his wealth, to do<br/>
without such an article, wrote the following curious<br/>
circular letter:—"M. de Rothschild of Paris begs<br/>
M. de Rothschild of Frankfort to place at the dispo-<br/>
sition of the Countess de Monterau himself and for-<br/>
tune."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
