---
linkTitle: 'February 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - February 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); February 1st'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 2
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 2.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang<br/>
Luang" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok February 1st
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The resume of a fortnight in such<br/>
a place as this affords but little<br/>
that is startling. We Europeans<br/>
here are a small community by<br/>
ourselves, isolated as it were from<br/>
the "rest of mankind"; and to create<br/>
our own items of news beyond<br/>
what goes the the round of the<br/>
daily gossip, and the regular rou-<br/>
tine of business affairs is rather a<br/>
difficult undertaking. The rice<br/>
famine does not come single hand-<br/>
ed, for in consequence of it, we<br/>
are likely to have a dearth of news<br/>
also. The Chow Phya, the source<br/>
of our usual semi-monthly mail,<br/>
has for a time at least been turned<br/>
from her usual course. Many of<br/>
us did not receive our full mail up-<br/>
on the lost arrival of the steamer,<br/>
and now this another detention<br/>
will make it, as topers say "long<br/>
between drams".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One little item of news however<br/>
has been received in a private way,<br/>
which to those of us who are thor-<br/>
oughly American, will compen-<br/>
sate in a great degree for the<br/>
absence of much other useful in-<br/>
formation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Along the wires of the Pacific<br/>
telegraph, that great artery which<br/>
connects Callifornia with her liv-<br/>
ing head and her sisters upon the<br/>
Atlantic, flashed this interesting<br/>
piece of information: "Abram<br/>
Lincoln is re-elected President of the<br/>
United States". That news made<br/>
its way thence to China, and<br/>
thence to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The North has thus shown to<br/>
the world that she is not so nearly<br/>
exhausted as was supposed, and<br/>
that after a four year’s fearful<br/>
contest she is not yet willing to<br/>
make concessions to rebels and<br/>
slavery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To give up the struggle at this<br/>
stage of affairs would simply have<br/>
been to murder uselessly at least<br/>
one hundred thousand brave men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rebels have been hoping<br/>
much from the Presidential cam-<br/>
paign, and their sympathisers in<br/>
the North. Those hopes are now<br/>
frustrated. They have their last<br/>
man under arms. We may yet<br/>
expect to hear of one or two more<br/>
bloody actions,—the last convul-<br/>
sive throes,—the desperation strug-<br/>
gle of a dying monster, and then<br/>
the great rebellion will be among<br/>
the things that were.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But has this great city no news?<br/>
With its hundreds of thousands of<br/>
inhabitants, and babel tongues, has<br/>
it nothing worth recording? There<br/>
are doubtless many things which<br/>
are highly interesting to the na-<br/>
tives themselves but would not<br/>
be so to the majority of European<br/>
readers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most important event is the<br/>
return of His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King and the royal retinue from a<br/>
visit to Petchaburee. The Court<br/>
has really been "out of town" en-<br/>
joying for a time the bracing air<br/>
of the Mountain Palace; where with<br/>
appropriate ceremonies the top-knot<br/>
of two of the royal offspring was<br/>
removed. This in the estimation<br/>
of many of this people, forms an im-<br/>
portant epoch in their history.<br/>
How much importance royalty<br/>
may attach to it we know not. Per-<br/>
haps like some other things it<br/>
may be made out a mere custom,<br/>
—a custom however as immutable<br/>
as the laws of the "Medes and Per-<br/>
sians". It is well known that the<br/>
common people attach much im-<br/>
portance to it. The general opinion<br/>
is, that if it is neglected, it will<br/>
prove disastrous to the child result-<br/>
ing in early death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Before leaving Petchaburee, the<br/>
Royal party were amusing them-<br/>
selves in sending up balloons,<br/>
which had likely to prove disas-<br/>
trous lo the Palace itself. One of<br/>
the balloons descended upon the<br/>
attap roof of one of the out build-<br/>
ings connected with the Palace<br/>
and set it on fire, which resulted<br/>
in the destruction of a considerable<br/>
amount of property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the happy family of Eu-<br/>
ropeans here, we expected, at one<br/>
lime during the past fortnight to<br/>
be under the necessity of record-<br/>
ing some trouble. The usually<br/>
clear horizon portended a storm.<br/>
The trumpet was sounded and the<br/>
assembly called. Reporters too<br/>
were there with pencil and paper<br/>
in hand ready to give to the world<br/>
the results of the deliberations.<br/>
There was however a difference of<br/>
opinion in the assembly. Some<br/>
saw danger nigh, but others were<br/>
incredulous. Some spoke warmly<br/>
and eloquently. No result how-<br/>
ever was reached, and the cloud,<br/>
in the mean time, passed away,<br/>
and the horizon was again clear.<br/>
The powers that be, are still in the<br/>
exercise of their usual functions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rumour however says that the<br/>
real object of the assembly was not<br/>
broached; as to the truth of this<br/>
we know not. There are few fam-<br/>
ilies so well regulated that domes-<br/>
tic differences and difficulties will<br/>
not sometimes arise, but when<br/>
those have passed off, and full re-<br/>
conciliation has been made, the<br/>
less the world knows about the<br/>
nature of the difficulty the better.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No one can help but know, that<br/>
we have, for the last week, been in<br/>
the midst of the Chinese holilays.<br/>
In this latitude, where we have<br/>
no shooting boys in the streets, full<br/>
show cases nor low mercury to<br/>
remind us, many of us can pass<br/>
our own holidays almost uncon-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sciously. The natives however will<br/>
not let us pass theirs so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those of us who have any Celes-<br/>
tials in our employ find our domes-<br/>
tic arrangements somewhat inter-<br/>
fered with. True we have been<br/>
surfeited with pork, and sweet<br/>
meats, and our ears deafened with<br/>
the sound of firecrackers, and the<br/>
thrilling notes of the gong, but<br/>
what are all these when we come<br/>
home to dinner and find the cook<br/>
away on a "spree".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is wonderful the power of<br/>
custom upon these Orientals. Many<br/>
of the Chinese here, never again<br/>
expect to set foot upon the soil of<br/>
their own Celestial empire, and<br/>
one would suppose that a day or<br/>
two of frolic would satisfy them;<br/>
but nothing short of the whole will<br/>
suffice. The Siamese-Chinese, many<br/>
of whom can scarcely speak a word<br/>
of Chinese, are as crazy as others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the Siamese have also<br/>
had their equilibrium somewhat<br/>
disturbed, which they will scarcely<br/>
be able to regain during the next<br/>
month, when their own New year<br/>
commences. And then in an-<br/>
other month comes the Song-Kran<br/>
when the Siamese become as nearly<br/>
crazy as it is possible to be and not<br/>
experience the reality. We may<br/>
therefore expect nothing but trou-<br/>
ble with servants for the next<br/>
three months.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AN HISTORIC RELIC.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. Mr. Mattoon, of this city, through<br/>
the politeness of Mr. G. A. Finck, who has<br/>
recently returned from China, has been<br/>
made the recipient of a beautifully finished<br/>
walking stick. This stick is a present to<br/>
Mr. Mattoon, from Capt. F. W. Harvey, of<br/>
the British ship "Harvest Home".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has also an historic reminiscence. It is<br/>
made from a piece of oak taken from the<br/>
old ship Minden, which figured as prison-<br/>
ship in the war of 1812, and on board of<br/>
whlch Francis Key composed the "Star<br/>
Spangled Banner," on Sept. 12th, 1814.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On that day the British fleet made an<br/>
attack upon Fort Mc Henry near Baltimore.<br/>
Early in the morning Mr. Key had gone on<br/>
board the fleet, to ask the release of some<br/>
prisoners, and was detained on board the<br/>
Minden during the day, and whllst the ac-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tion was progressing, he composed the "Star<br/>
Spangled Banner". The Minden was sold in<br/>
Canton, in 1862 to the Chinese, who broke<br/>
her up, for the timber, iron, and copper,<br/>
she contained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. J.C. Nevin, Missionary of the United<br/>
Presbyterian Church, secured a block of<br/>
wood from the vessel, upon which he had<br/>
executed the following design. On one side<br/>
is carved the Union flag, with fifteen stars<br/>
and fifteen stripes, and the beginning and<br/>
closing words of the "Star Spangled Ban-<br/>
ner" The date of the battle is also given,<br/>
1814. The character of the Minden during<br/>
the war is represented by a pair of manacles,<br/>
and chains. On the other side the Canton<br/>
date is given, and there is a broken cannon,<br/>
and anchor, showing that the ship is destroy-<br/>
ed. The design was beautifully executed<br/>
by a Chinaman, whose name and place of<br/>
business, appear in Chinese characters on<br/>
the end of the block. Thus designed, the<br/>
block was sent by Mr. Nevins, and presented<br/>
to Mayor Henry of Philadelphia, to be placed<br/>
in Independence Hall in that city.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER,
PETCHABUREE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This year was ushered in at Petchaburee<br/>
with a ceremony, which the place has never<br/>
witnessed before. The unusual size and<br/>
amount of preparations beforehand betoken-<br/>
ed something extra. Were two hundred<br/>
thousand bamboo trees brought, and three<br/>
spacious buildings erected, and that large<br/>
enclosures made for the purpose of holding<br/>
A FAIR! It would be well if they were ever<br/>
used for any thing less advantageous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The occasion for all this preparation is the<br/>
hair-cutting of two young princesses in the<br/>
family of His Majesty the First King. The<br/>
royal train arrived at Ban-Mai, the royal<br/>
landing on Thursday the 5th January, and<br/>
proceeded from thence by carriage to the<br/>
Royal Country Palace, which is situated on<br/>
the summit of a small mount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The landing place is three or four miles<br/>
below the town, and connected with it by<br/>
a beautifully smooth road, along which it<br/>
is a great treat to ride or drive, a luxury not<br/>
every where to be enjoyed in this country.<br/>
The visitor here is agreeably disappointed<br/>
to find roads leading in almost every direc-<br/>
tion, and through the kindness of the enter-<br/>
prising and gentlemanly Lieut. Governor<br/>
he will hardly ever tire of having horses, and<br/>
carriages at his command.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The road across the plain from the river<br/>
to the palace summit is about three fifths of<br/>
a mile long. Here the grand royal process-<br/>
ion took place. This road was guarded on<br/>
each side by various ornamental standards<br/>
of lattice work, and covered with matting.<br/>
The grand proceession commenced on Fri-<br/>
day the 13th and conitnued, one each day,<br/>
till Monday, when at an early hour the<br/>
"top knot" was removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The dress of the young princesses, while<br/>
in procession, was Oriental in style and<br/>
magnificence, consisting principally of gold<br/>
and diamonds ;—a neat and beautiful little<br/>
crown of curiously wrought gold, and stud-<br/>
ded with diamonds—a broad collar cover-<br/>
ing the shoulders which seemed to be a net<br/>
work of gold and jewels—necklace—brace-<br/>
lets—anklets—and the tiny little slippers—<br/>
all of the same costly materials. This must<br/>
have been, like the ancient coat of mail, no<br/>
easy burden to bear, for I saw one of the<br/>
young Princesses breathing heavily as<br/>
though she were uneasy under all this<br/>
weight of jewelry. They were seated in<br/>
nicely gilded chairs borne on men's should-<br/>
ers, and attended, each by twelve noble-<br/>
men richly and beautifully dressed, but<br/>
strangely disfigured with a one-horned hat<br/>
on their heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole procession was a motley com-<br/>
pany composed of soldiers, pioneers, bands<br/>
of music, standard bearers, and persons<br/>
variously dressed, representing different na-<br/>
tionalities, such as Chinese, Malay, Peguan,<br/>
Karen, Hindoo, and European. That re-<br/>
presenting the ancient style of Siamese<br/>
dress, looked very genteel and becoming,<br/>
and would add much to their appearance<br/>
if in vogue now. The only objectionable<br/>
feature of the whole appearance was a laugh-<br/>
able attempt to imitate an European lady's<br/>
dress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tonsure took place in a beautifully<br/>
decorated hall adjoining the palace on the<br/>
summit. The little beauties were seat-<br/>
up on a mat on the floor while the atten-<br/>
dants proceeded to remove the miniature<br/>
crown of gold, and, unloose the knot of hair<br/>
and prepare it for taking its final leave of<br/>
its very youthful heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Precious lock of hair ! You must now<br/>
be laid aside. Your ornament is no longer<br/>
needed. Never again will there be the<br/>
same magnificent display made for you.<br/>
Prepare to take your leave.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty, assisted by two princes, with<br/>
a pair of barber shears soon removed the<br/>
cherished locks, amidst a deafening jargon<br/>
from Brahman conch, brazen horn, flagelet,<br/>
and a variety of other instruments of un-<br/>
harmonious sound, and the children were<br/>
conducted out to bathe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Adjoining the hall was an artificial moun-<br/>
tain, in one of the crevices of which was a<br/>
miniature throne with a white canopy<br/>
where they took their seats. Immediately<br/>
above them, among the artificial crags pro-<br/>
jected, the heads of four different animals<br/>
representing the four quarters of the globe,<br/>
out of the mouths of which came water<br/>
sprinkling the “hairless scalps beneath.<br/>
His Majesty then poured water upon each<br/>
of their heads from a small shell which had<br/>
been used by his royal ancestors in the old<br/>
capital four generations ago. This ceremony<br/>
of puring water was followed up by a few<br/>
others, while the poor little sufferers sat<br/>
shivering in their wet garments in the fresh<br/>
morning breeze; and each splash of the<br/>
water called forth a deep drawn sigh, which<br/>
seemed to say "touch lightly."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole pageant was Oriental in style,<br/>
and princely in magnificence, and closed<br/>
up on Wedsesday evening with royal fire-<br/>
worke on the summit, a little out of the<br/>
usual order. It is not often His Majesty<br/>
entertains his cortege with so brilliant and<br/>
startling a display of the power of fire to<br/>
consume attap roof, and buildings entire as<br/>
was witnessed that evening.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
S. G.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COMMISIONER OF POLICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our neighbor of "The Siam Times" oc-<br/>
cupies several columns of his last issue with<br/>
the affairs of the above named official. We<br/>
had not designed to make them the subject of<br/>
comment, and only do so now, to correct<br/>
what we regard a serious error, which our<br/>
neighbor of "The Siam Times" has made in<br/>
the advice which he offers to the Commis-<br/>
sioner of Police.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We think this the more necessary, as<br/>
our neighbor claims to be the adviser of the<br/>
Ruling Powers, and because of the "ex-ca-<br/>
thedra" it risks in which the advice is given.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We entertain none but the most friendly<br/>
sentiments toward the Commissioner of<br/>
Police, and will cheerfully do all in our<br/>
power to render his official position the<br/>
least embarrassing to himself, and most<br/>
useful to his employers, and the community<br/>
in general. But we cannot think it the part<br/>
of true friendship either to the Commis-<br/>
sioner, or to the Siamese government, to<br/>
ignore Treaty obligatious, and give advice,<br/>
which, if followed, must inevitably lead to<br/>
fresh complications.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our neighbor advises the Commissioner<br/>
to apply to the Siamese government, his<br/>
employers, for Magistrerial powers, and<br/>
then adds: "This secured, your acts in fin-<br/>
ing, imprisoning, or flogging any of the<br/>
members of the force under your control,<br/>
will be official acts, for the performance of<br/>
which you will be answerable only to the<br/>
Siamese tribunals."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Can it be possible that our neighbor does<br/>
not know, that while existing Treaties are<br/>
in force, the Siamese government can<br/>
neither give nor exercise Magisterial au-<br/>
thority over the subjects of any of the<br/>
Treaty Powers? No commission, no author-<br/>
ity, which the Siamese government can<br/>
grant, can remove the acts of the Commis-<br/>
sioner toward British subjects, whether they<br/>
be official, semi-official, or private, from un-<br/>
der the jurisdiction of the British Consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If there is any change, the second remedy<br/>
which our neighbor proposes we think the<br/>
right one. Let the members of the Police<br/>
force be Siamese subjects, and let the Siam-<br/>
ese government clearly define, the extent<br/>
of the authority, which the Commissioner<br/>
has over them. The Commissioner would still<br/>
be under British jurisdiction; but no com-<br/>
plaint of any member of his force could<br/>
come before the Consul, except through<br/>
the regular Siamese Official channels, and<br/>
he would not be liable, unless he had both<br/>
committed a breach of British law, and<br/>
transgressed the powers given him by the<br/>
Siamese government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If suitable persons, subjects of Siam can<br/>
not be found for the purpose of the Po-<br/>
lice, the only course is for the Commission-<br/>
er to submit to the necessities of his po-<br/>
sition, and bring any member of his force,<br/>
who may have committed himself, before<br/>
the Consul of the Country of which he is<br/>
a subject for punishment. It appears to<br/>
us both useless, and unwise, for either the<br/>
Commissioner or the community to "run<br/>
a muck" against legitimate Consular au-<br/>
thority in whatever lands it may be found.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lull in our business affairs though<br/>
not at all desirable, will doubtless not pass<br/>
without effecting its intended good. It will<br/>
give us time to breathe, as well as afford time<br/>
for reflection, and the enlargement of our<br/>
acquaintance with the world. Had this<br/>
been an ordinary year bringing its usual<br/>
good crop of the great staple of the country,<br/>
those of us engaged in business would doubt-<br/>
less have been buying rice, and loading<br/>
ships as usual, scarcely allowing our thoughts<br/>
to range beyond the regular routine of bus-<br/>
iness and thus unconsciously becoming men<br/>
of one idea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we take a retrospect of the last four<br/>
or five years, we see great changes in the<br/>
commercial world, as well as in the political.<br/>
These have been effected to a great extent<br/>
by revolutions in the political. In the<br/>
United States, King Cotton had acquired a<br/>
power almost absolute, and was supported<br/>
upon his throne by a powerful aristocracy.<br/>
Nor was his power confined to his own<br/>
dominions alone, but extended across the<br/>
Atlantic to Europe. Relying upon his in-<br/>
fluence abroad, he attempted a movement<br/>
which proved his ruin. He soon found his<br/>
ports blockaded, and his own carcass, useless<br/>
to himself, left to rot upon his own soil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As a consequence, across the Atlantic<br/>
thousands of operatives, who had hitherto<br/>
been able to make a respectable living, were<br/>
thrown out of employment, and became<br/>
objects of charity, and many who appeared<br/>
to be doing a good business, became insol-<br/>
vent. American shipping too, by heretofore<br/>
practicers, was driven almost wholly from<br/>
the sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Siam, however, we were apparently<br/>
safe. Free from the civil wars of America,<br/>
and China, and also apparently free from<br/>
any difficulty from without, the merchants<br/>
felt conparatively secure. Holding the<br/>
keys, as it were, of the "rice granary of the<br/>
world," the rest of the world might fight it<br/>
out, and we could supply them with rice.<br/>
A few short months pass away, and our go-<br/>
downs are empty, our rice mills are silent,<br/>
and we are apparently upon the verge of a<br/>
famine. The usual copious rains of the<br/>
season have been in a great measure with<br/>
held, and as a consequence the crop is a<br/>
failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those of us who hold to particular prov<br/>
idences, of course feel that the Sovereign<br/>
Ruler of the universe, has some great object<br/>
to accomplish by this, and which is yet to<br/>
be developed. What that object is we dare<br/>
securely conjecture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It may, for ought we know, be to develope<br/>
further the resources of this country. It<br/>
may be made the means of turning the at-<br/>
tention of both natives and foreigners more<br/>
particularly to the cultivations of rice. If<br/>
with their dilatory habits, and imperfect<br/>
modes of farming, Siam may without exag-<br/>
geration be called, the "rice granary of the<br/>
world," which might not be expanded with<br/>
a proper degree of industry, and improved<br/>
modes of cultivation. This then may be<br/>
the means of causing the people to throw<br/>
away their outdate utensils, and make-shift<br/>
ways of farming. They may also be made<br/>
to turn their attention to proper modes of<br/>
irrigation, so that they may not be so much<br/>
dependent on the flooding of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This scarcity of rice too may be made<br/>
the means of discovering some hitherto un-<br/>
known sources of wealth, and of turning the<br/>
tion participation of commerce in quite a<br/>
different direction. Most of the useful in-<br/>
ventions have at first been looked upon as<br/>
Calamities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Previously to the outbreak of the rebellion,<br/>
in the United States, labor saving machines<br/>
were very greatly increased. Many of the<br/>
laboring classes looked upon them with a<br/>
jealous eye, and considered them as taking<br/>
the bread out of their own months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thousands of women in the larger cities<br/>
made a doleful living by the use of their<br/>
needles, but upon the introduction of the<br/>
sewing machine they were apparently de<br/>
prived of even that. Farming utensils such<br/>
as planting machines, and reaping machines<br/>
were also greatly increased, with apparently<br/>
the same effect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the outbreak of the rebellion how-<br/>
ever, an overruling Providence could be seen<br/>
in all these. Without the sewing machine<br/>
the vast army of the Union, could never<br/>
have been properly clothed, and without<br/>
the other labor-saving machines the seed<br/>
could never have been planted, and the har-<br/>
vest gathered. Those same laboring classes<br/>
too, who were apparently thrown out of em-<br/>
ployment, have been able at other employ<br/>
ments almost to quadruple their former<br/>
wages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
King cotton was about to be dethroned,<br/>
but near the same time we discovered that<br/>
which is likely to prove an inexhaustible<br/>
source of wealth. Had any one come for-<br/>
ward seven years ago, and declared that<br/>
beneath the disported strats of Western<br/>
Pennsylvania, and Western Virginia — many<br/>
places upon those surface, appeared to have<br/>
been intended by nature, for the lair of the<br/>
wild beast, or the growth of Whortleberries-<br/>
there was deposited pure oil enough to burn<br/>
up creation, he would have been looked upon<br/>
as a mad-man. The good people of that<br/>
region would doubtless have taken pains<br/>
to place him in one of those human institu<br/>
tions called insane asylums.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although so lately discovered; there are<br/>
in the oil business, in different portions of the<br/>
United States, over two hundred and fifty<br/>
companies, with an aggregate capital of one<br/>
hundred and forty millions of dollars. Vast<br/>
quantities are also exported to Europe, and<br/>
different other parts of the world. This<br/>
has also created a corresponding revolution<br/>
in lamps, and burners. The old are thrown<br/>
aside, and replaced by new. A house in<br/>
New York, has received from Russia, an or-<br/>
der for two hundred thousand dollars worth<br/>
of petroleum lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That same nature has been at work here.<br/>
She has upheaved from the bed of the sea<br/>
beautiful islands. Upon the main land too,<br/>
which the sea appears to have covered at<br/>
one time and then receded, that same in-<br/>
ternal power has been felt. Mountains with<br/>
distorted and rugged rock, rise up above<br/>
the plain, and some of them even appear as<br/>
if they might have been thrown from a dis-<br/>
tance and placed upon the surface. Among<br/>
the distorted straits of same of these, them<br/>
may be a source of wealth, as powerful, as<br/>
that arising in the form of the rice crop,<br/>
from the alluvial deposits of the valley of<br/>
the Mehnam Chow Pya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another thought too suggests itself.<br/>
There is also here an apparent decline in<br/>
the cocoa nut. The scarcity of the nut to-<br/>
gether with the high tax imposed upon the<br/>
tree makes oil very dear. It has doubled<br/>
within the last four years. Might not pre-<br/>
troleum be imported, and sold at least as<br/>
cheaply per gallon as oil produced from the<br/>
cocoa nut?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We venture to assert therefore that there<br/>
is still some undiscovered sources of trade<br/>
here. Who will find them? This too is<br/>
beautiful weather for tearing, and exploring<br/>
this country. Those therefore who are not<br/>
otherwise particularly engaged would “do<br/>
well” to try it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Nakpbat Jr.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
STEAMER CHOW PHYA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since writing the article on our first page<br/>
this welcome messenger has arrived. She<br/>
left Singapore, on the 16th at 5, 30 P.M.<br/>
and arrived at Cape St. James, at 10 A.M.<br/>
23rd, anchoring at Saigon, at 5 P.M. Left<br/>
Saigon, on the 25th at 4, 30 P.M. Cape St.<br/>
James, on the evening of the 29th, and<br/>
arrived at Bangkok at noon 30th.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 14th TO 31st JANUARY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>6</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>6</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slaves.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Burglary. [of ill [....]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Breach of the peace in a house.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting the Police.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Drunk and disorderly.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Trying to pass counterfeit coin.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cheating in a gambling house.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carelessly poking a woman's</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">eye out with a stick while passing through</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">the Bazar.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
APPOINTMENT OF CONSUL
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the news brought by the Chow<br/>
Phya, we learn that Thomas George Knox<br/>
Esq., has received his appointment, as H.<br/>
B. M. Consul to Siam. May we be allowed<br/>
to congratulate Mr. Knox on his appoint-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Election News—United States 
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Lincoln re-elected President by an<br/>
overwhelming majority, having received<br/>
213 electoral votes to McClellan’s 21. New<br/>
Jersey, Kentucky and Delaware alone, giv-<br/>
ing a majority for McClellan. Lincoln’s<br/>
popular majority is about 400,0000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ours being a Semi-weekly Journal, it is<br/>
not in our programme to give the latest news<br/>
upon the arrival of the mails. It may oc-<br/>
casionally happen that we can do so. The<br/>
very great majority of our readers get the<br/>
latest news in European papers in much<br/>
fuller form than we can give it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would indeed prefer rather to wait <br/>
a day or two after the arrival, letting the<br/>
multitude of reading matter, our journal<br/>
like some others might be cast aside without<br/>
notice. When we get our arrangements<br/>
properly made, however, we shall be able<br/>
to give the later telegraphic news to our<br/>
subscribers in an extra.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_5_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOSS OF ENGLISH SCHR. FAI KEE,
Capr. Howland.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Statement of the Mate, Mr. G. E. Sands<br/>
who arrived here on Saturday 21st, Jan.<br/>
1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nov. 21st, Left the anchorage with a full<br/>
cargo, consisting of teak logs, and planks<br/>
in the lower hold, rice and pepper in the<br/>
tween docks, with some sapanwood for<br/>
stowage. The ship was stanch and tight<br/>
with a full crew, consisting of Capt., Mate,<br/>
second Mate, Carpenter, (Steward, Cook,<br/>
both Chinese) one boy, and five hands be-<br/>
fore the mast. The ship was well found in<br/>
sails, rigging and every thing necessary for<br/>
the intended voyage. The prevailing winds<br/>
at, and after starting, were light and vari-<br/>
able, and nothing of any consequence<br/>
occurred up to the 24th. Noon, Lat. by<br/>
observation 12° 49' N. Long, uncertain, not<br/>
having the Log book, it being in the posses-<br/>
sion of the Capt. Wind, light northerly,<br/>
all sail set to the best advantage, pumps in<br/>
good order, and regularly attended, ship<br/>
making no water, 8 P.M. calm; 10, Light<br/>
breeze, N. E. midnight, breeze N. E. fresh<br/>
ening. 8 A. M. 25th, blowing fresh, took in<br/>
light sails, day light, wind steadily increas-<br/>
ing, with heavy sea, 6 A. M. sounded<br/>
the pumps, and found two feet water in the<br/>
hold, rigged and manned both pumps, and<br/>
kept them going till 8 A. M. when one of<br/>
the men, having occasion to go below into<br/>
the forecastle, reported "water coming<br/>
through the seams of the deck." We opened<br/>
the fore hatch, and went below, when we<br/>
found the lower hold full of water, some of<br/>
the hands were sent with buckets to bail, and<br/>
both pumps were kept a going; but all our<br/>
efforts were in vain, the water gaining ra-<br/>
pidly upon us. We then shortened sail and<br/>
got the ship before the wind, 9 P. M. hold<br/>
full of water. One of the men reported a<br/>
sail in sight, which proved to be the Ham-<br/>
burg Barque Superb. We signalled her,<br/>
and got out the long boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I went on board of the Superb, when the<br/>
Capt. asked, if we wished to be taken off<br/>
the wreck, and offered to take us all on<br/>
board of the Superb, if we wished to go.<br/>
I thanked him for his kindness, but de-<br/>
clined accepting of his offer, knowing that<br/>
the ship would keep above water, we hoped<br/>
to be able to reach some port in the Gulf<br/>
with her in safety. I requested the Capt.<br/>
to furnish us with provisions, our own<br/>
having been rendered useless by salt water.<br/>
He kindly supplied our wants, and we re-<br/>
turned to the ship, dropped the boat astern<br/>
and filled away the yards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After parting company with the Superb,<br/>
we steered as near west as the wind N. E.<br/>
E. would permit us to do with safety yards.<br/>
The fore and aft sails being stowed. During<br/>
the day the wind veered and hauled be-<br/>
tween North and East meantime the ship<br/>
made about a W. S. W. course. 2½ knots<br/>
per hour. At sun set, we lowered the<br/>
quarter boat from the davits, and dropped<br/>
her astern with the long boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The water in the hold being all afloat; a<br/>
slight squall would capsize the ship, it was<br/>
therefore prudent to be prepared for what-<br/>
ever might happen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ship having filled so rapidly, in three<br/>
hours, at 6 A.M. when we commenced pump-<br/>
ing there was only two feet water in the<br/>
hold, and at 9 A. M. the ship settled down,<br/>
her hold being full of water, we had no<br/>
time to save any thing belonging to us, and<br/>
when we had time, we could not save any<br/>
thing, all being under water, all the pro-<br/>
visions we had, were about 100 lbs bread,<br/>
three hams, a few pomeloes, and one bucket<br/>
about two gallons of water. 3 P. M. wind<br/>
moderate, midnight, squally, I went into the<br/>
long boat, leaving the 2nd Mate in charge<br/>
of the ship, with orders, not to leave her<br/>
if the breeze freshened. About 2 P. M. on<br/>
the morning of the 26th, while in the long<br/>
boat, I was awoke by a noise, and the words<br/>
"Hard up," uttered in a loud voice, upon<br/>
jumping up, I found that a squall had struck<br/>
the ship on her starboard beam, and she<br/>
was int he act of rolling over on her beam<br/>
ends. At this time the ship capsized, the<br/>
steward, cook and one seaman was in the<br/>
long boat with me, the carpenter and boy in<br/>
the other. I ordered the boats to be cut<br/>
away from the ship, which was done, and we<br/>
went to the assistance of the remainder of<br/>
the crew, and succeeded in getting them all<br/>
into the boats in safety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We divided the crew, the Capt, 2nd mate,<br/>
carpenter two seamen and boy into one boat,<br/>
mate, steward, cook, and three seamen in the<br/>
other, and shaped our course for the land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Immediately after we left the wreck, I<br/>
found that one of the pintles, which the<br/>
rudder hung, was broken off close the<br/>
stern, so that I had great difficulty in keep-<br/>
ing her near her course, this together with the<br/>
darkness of the night, and the heavy sea,<br/>
caused our boats to part company. Soon<br/>
after this the other pintle drew out of<br/>
the bands stern, and then I had to take<br/>
one of the three oars which we had pulling<br/>
to steer with, we continued pulling till day-<br/>
light, we then put in the oars and com-<br/>
menced rigging a sail, taking an oar for a<br/>
mast, and a bed-tick, belonging to the<br/>
Chinese steward, for a sail, in this way we<br/>
were soon enabled to go ahead, at the rate<br/>
of about five knots per hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as we got all finished, and the<br/>
boat going ahead, we commenced our morn-<br/>
ing meal, having eaten but little the day pre-<br/>
vious. ( for my own part I had only eaten<br/>
a piece of biscuit, and raw meat, on the day<br/>
before, we having discovered the leak but<br/>
before breakfast ) our present meal consisted<br/>
of the same viz.—biscuit, raw ham, and a<br/>
piece of pomaloe, wishing to save our<br/>
water, we did not use any of it then.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had a fine breeze all that day, and<br/>
through the night, at about 3 A. M. we<br/>
made the land, and about 4 A. M. found<br/>
that we were not far enough to windward to<br/>
get into Pathieu, so we kept away, and ran<br/>
into the bay of Kow Lanng, where we found<br/>
a native Junk in course of building. There<br/>
were only the workmen, and two or three<br/>
women, who cooked for them, in this place.<br/>
We hauled our boat up on the beach, the<br/>
natives voluntarily assisting us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We soon made our condition known to<br/>
them, telling them if they would assist us,<br/>
we would give them some of our clothes,<br/>
as we could not pay them in any other way,<br/>
they then once gave us every assistance in their<br/>
power. We got a mast out in the woods,<br/>
and a spar for an oar, ( having lost one of<br/>
those we had ) a new thaft, and the rudder<br/>
fixed, while some of our men were getting<br/>
our sail, and fitted rigging for the mast,<br/>
this we made out of the piece of rope which<br/>
had been cut from the ship's stern, when<br/>
she went on her beam ends, by unlaying<br/>
the strands, and laying them up again into<br/>
small rope. In this way we got every thing<br/>
fitted, and were enabled to leave again on<br/>
the afternoon of the 28th. We had a heavy<br/>
sea to contend with, and broke one of our<br/>
oars in doing so, but finally succeeded, and<br/>
stood off shore for the best part of the night,<br/>
on the morning of the 29th, we stood in<br/>
again, and found that we had gone to lee-<br/>
ward and was not able to fetch the place<br/>
we had left. I then thought, of a new rig<br/>
for the boat. I rigged a kind of jigger sail<br/>
to keep the boat from going so much to<br/>
leeward; this was soon done, with a blanket<br/>
for a sail, and some spare spars, which we<br/>
took with us from the shore, we stood close<br/>
into the land, making short tacks, during<br/>
the night, but in the morning found that we<br/>
were sill getting to leeward. The weather<br/>
was fine, the breeze moderate, but in her<br/>
present condition, there was no hope of<br/>
working the boat up the coast. Having<br/>
neither compass, chart, nor any thing to<br/>
assist me, and with but little knowledge of<br/>
the coast, I scarcely knew what to do, but<br/>
Providence sent a Chinese Junk in our way,<br/>
and as soon as we saw her, we stood across<br/>
her bows, so as to be able to speak her. I<br/>
then told the Chinamen in the boat what to<br/>
say to the Captain of the Junk who informed<br/>
us, that Champoon was the best place for<br/>
us to go, there being a man there who spoke<br/>
English, and the Governor lived there; he<br/>
promised, if we would follow the Junk, as<br/>
they were going close to Champoan, that<br/>
he would send a man with us to show us<br/>
the way, we then kept away after the Junk,<br/>
they kindly gave us some cooked rice and<br/>
fish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About 5 P. M. we arrived at Thong-Kat,<br/>
the Captain of the Junk ( who was also the<br/>
owner ) living here, we remained at his<br/>
house for the night ( by his invitation ) he<br/>
treated us very kindly, giving us supper<br/>
with himself and family, some of the men<br/>
slept in the boat, the two Chinamen and I<br/>
slept in the house belonging to the owner<br/>
of the junk, who sent mats, and pillows for<br/>
us to sleep on.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This place seemed to be chiefly inhabited<br/>
by Chinese, having Siamese wives, and was<br/>
very well cultivated. Several of them came<br/>
and brought us to there houses, and offered<br/>
us fruit, tea, cigars &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next morning Dec, 1st the two Chinese<br/>
reported, that there clothes had been stolen<br/>
in the night; they had a small bundle tied<br/>
in a handkerchief, which they brought out<br/>
of the boat, and put in the place where they<br/>
slept, I did not trouble myself about this<br/>
till I arrived at Champoon, when I reported<br/>
it to the Governor, who made the owner of<br/>
the Junk, pay for them, in failing to find<br/>
the thief, ( I was very sorry for this ).
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as we had breakfast the Chinese<br/>
Captain sent two men with us in the boat,<br/>
and in about four hours, we reached Capt.<br/>
Corderio’s at Champoon, who received us<br/>
kindly, and reported our arrival to the<br/>
Siamese authorities in the village, but he<br/>
failed to report us to the Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 3rd Dec. Capt. C, went with me<br/>
to the Governor, who received me very<br/>
kindly, and expressed his sorrow at not<br/>
hearing of our arrival sooner, he promised<br/>
to send us to Bangkok, but having heard<br/>
the day previous, from a Chinaman that<br/>
Capt. H. was at Pathieu, I requested him,<br/>
to give me a boat, that I might go to P.<br/>
and see if the Capt. had arrived. He cheer-<br/>
fully granted my request, and also said,<br/>
that if Capt. H, could be found any where<br/>
on the coast, it would give him a great plea-<br/>
sure, to be able to forward us all to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next day Dec. 4th, I left Champoon, in<br/>
search of Capt. H, and his boats crew, I<br/>
had four natives, to row the boat, and the<br/>
ships cook as interpreter. We pulled up<br/>
the coast, keeping a good look out as we<br/>
went along, but we did not see any thing<br/>
of the Captain’s boat. We arrived at Bansuan<br/>
in the night, but could not get the boat in,<br/>
as it was low water, so we waited until the<br/>
tide made, when I went ashore, but received<br/>
no intelligence whatever about the boat or<br/>
crew. Next morning 5th, we left Bansuan,<br/>
and pulled round the Head; but there being<br/>
a strong breeze, and a heavy sea, the boat’s<br/>
crew would not proceed any further, and<br/>
much against my will, we beached the boat<br/>
in the next little bay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was very anxious to get to Pathieu and<br/>
hearing that I could walk thero in a short<br/>
time, I took two of the boat crew, and the<br/>
cook, and started on foot. We traveled along<br/>
the beach which is a fine sandy one, covered<br/>
with a variety of shells, and some shell<br/>
fish a species of clam, with a very hand-<br/>
home shell. After we traveled about<br/>
two miles, the sand being soft, and our feet<br/>
sinking into it, my shoes (canvas) gave out,<br/>
and impeded my progress, the natives tra-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
veiling fast, I could not keep up with them,<br/>
so I off shoes and tried the bare deet I could<br/>
not get on very well owing to the sharpness<br/>
of the shells, and the tenderness of my feet.<br/>
However I got along at a passable rate, un-<br/>
til we came to the rocks at the next Cape-<br/>
or Headland, these we had to climb over,<br/>
they were very sharp, being a kind of slate<br/>
stone, with the edges up and craggy. By<br/>
this time the tide was so high that we<br/>
could not travel on the beach, so we<br/>
were obliged to clamber over the rocks,<br/>
which was tedious and painful to me. The<br/>
natives of course, did not mind it their feet<br/>
being hard, having got over these rocks,<br/>
we fell in with a path through the woods,<br/>
this we followed, cutting off the next Head-<br/>
land, here I got well picked with thorns.<br/>
In this way we traveled alone wading<br/>
streams, climbing rocks and scrambling<br/>
through the jungle, until we came to a house,<br/>
where we learned that a little farther on, the<br/>
second Governor had his residence. We<br/>
pushed on till dark, when we arrived at<br/>
the second Governor's, about seven or eight<br/>
miles from Pathieu, where we rested for the<br/>
night, during my journey I found my guides<br/>
of little or no use, because they did not<br/>
know the road.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Governor, and his family were very<br/>
kind, provided supper for us, and observing<br/>
that my clothes were wet, they offered me<br/>
some of thier own which were dry, which<br/>
I accepted, and put on, (to the no small<br/>
amusement of the company,) till next morn-<br/>
ing when I resumed my own. I slept but<br/>
little during the night, my feet and limbs<br/>
being sore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next morning 6th we resumed our jour-<br/>
ney and arrived about noon at Pathieu , and<br/>
went to the first Governor, there I was in-<br/>
formed to Capt H. and been here, but<br/>
had only called, and got some rice &c.<br/>
and left immediately, the person (a China-<br/>
man) who had supplied him, being then<br/>
the Governor's, told me that he (the<br/>
Chimaman) offered Capt. H. a little money<br/>
to help him on his way, which was refused<br/>
by Capt. II.who then started for Bangkok.<br/>
I informed the Gov. of the reason why I<br/>
came and of my inability to walk any dis-<br/>
tance, requesting him to send me in a boat<br/>
to the place where I had left my boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After having some refreshments, an offi-<br/>
cer went with us to the village, and pro-<br/>
cured a boat. We started at about 7 P. M.<br/>
having the wind and sea in our favor, we<br/>
went rapidly along and at midnight arrived<br/>
at the place where we left the boat, but it<br/>
being low water, we had to get out and<br/>
wade for about half a mile, leaving the boat<br/>
outside of the flats. I told the boat-man to<br/>
rumain till we had found our own boat,<br/>
but not being able to do so, we returned to<br/>
where we had left the boat, and to our<br/>
surprise found that she was also gone. This<br/>
was rather unfortunate, but there was no<br/>
help for it. and we had to remain on the<br/>
beach all night. We went in quest of wood<br/>
to make a fire, (this was attended with<br/>
some little danger, there being some tigers<br/>
prowling about our neighborhood.) Having<br/>
collected a small quantity of wood, and a<br/>
flint and steel being at hand, a fire was<br/>
soon kindled. For each took a fire brand in<br/>
hand, and went in search of more wood,<br/>
having got enough we made a good fire by<br/>
which we remained till morning. At day-<br/>
light we went to take a more minute<br/>
search for the boat, when we found the<br/>
tracks of a tiger in the sand, about<br/>
fourteen yards from the fire. Not finding<br/>
the boat, we concluded that the men who<br/>
were in charge of her, had taken her back<br/>
to Bansuan, we entered the jungle and<br/>
returned to Bansuan where we found the<br/>
boat, and continuing our journey, we ar-<br/>
rived at Champoon on the 8th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I went to Capt. Cordiero's instead of go-<br/>
ing to the Governor’s, my feet being fes-<br/>
terer and swelled I could not walk, and<br/>
for several days I did not go outside the<br/>
house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Capt. C. reported my arrival to the Gov-<br/>
ernor who concluded to forward me to Bang-<br/>
kok on elephants, however I heard noth-<br/>
ing more till the 14th when Capt. C. who<br/>
was then going to visit the tin mines went<br/>
to the Governor, who had promised to<br/>
give him elephants for his journey, taking<br/>
one of my men with him who had volun-<br/>
teered to accompany him. In the evening<br/>
I received a note stating that the Governor<br/>
desired the party to come to his house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
15th—We took our boat and went to<br/>
the Governor’s about 3 miles further up the<br/>
river, who gave us a place to live in, opposite<br/>
his own house, providing every thing neces-<br/>
sary for our comfort, appointing a man to<br/>
provide food for us every day, telling us he<br/>
wished any thing more to let him<br/>
know. Fruit, fish, pork, eggs and other<br/>
nic naks sent from his own house to us,<br/>
and with all this expressing sorrow for be-<br/>
ing unable to add to our comforts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I cannot speak too highly in praise of<br/>
the Governor of Champoon, he spared nei-<br/>
ther trouble nor expence to obtain whatever<br/>
he thought would add to our comfort<br/>
while we were with him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would not have been delayed so<br/>
long had we not waited for the party<br/>
which the Governor as about to send on<br/>
duty to Bangkok, circumstances prevented<br/>
him from doing so, up to the 23d, when<br/>
our party, now reduced to three. Richard<br/>
Mc Auley having gone to the mines with<br/>
Capt. C. and the two Chinese remaining in<br/>
Champoon, myself and two seaman, one<br/>
of them ( Charles Herring ) being sick,<br/>
embarked in the ship’s boat, with four<br/>
men from the Governor to row the boat,<br/>
and in company with a boat belonging to the<br/>
Governor’s party on the 26th we returned to<br/>
Champoon, not being able to get along<br/>
the coast. * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SHERMAN'S MARCH THROUGH GEORGIA.
FROM THE "OVERLAND MAIL" OF Dec. 10th
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The main interest of the news from America still<br/>
centres in General Sherman's movements. There<br/>
is now no doubt as to the direction in which that<br/>
general bent steps after evacutating and destroy-<br/>
ing Atlanta, but the Intelligenceconcerning his prog-<br/>
ress as yet comes entirely from Confederate sources<br/>
and is very contrdictory. The latest communica-<br/>
tion received direct from Sherman in the following<br/>
telegram to his wife, dated Kingston, Georgia Nov.<br/>
9:—"I have received all your letters up to the 3rd.<br/>
I start to morrow. Write no more and don't expect<br/>
to hear from me except through rebel sources for<br/>
some time to come. Good bye".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the same day, Nov 9th Sherman issued or-<br/>
ders for his march, announcing that the army would<br/>
move in two wings by four roads when practicable,<br/>
the right wing under Howard composed of the 15th<br/>
and 17th corps, and the left, under Slocam, com-<br/>
prising the 14th and 20th corps. There was to be a<br/>
general train of supplies, and ammunition wagons<br/>
and ambulances were to be distributed among the<br/>
different regiments. Foraging parties were to be<br/>
vigorously employed in all directions. The troops<br/>
were forbidden to enter private dwellings, but could<br/>
gather supplies and drive in stock freely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wings of the Federal Army are described as<br/>
stretching away miles across the country, foraging as<br/>
they marched and the Georgia journels complain that<br/>
Shermann is devastating the country, wholly contrary<br/>
to the terms of his order. He is said to have burnt<br/>
Jonesboro, Griffin, Stone Mountain, Hillsborough<br/>
Clinton, and other towns, including the residences<br/>
of Governer Brown.Telegraphic communciation<br/>
between Macon, Milledgeville, and Savannah has<br/>
been destroyed. All the country between the Georgia<br/>
central railway has been swept. Richmond papers<br/>
of the 23rd Nov. publish an unconfirmed report to<br/>
the effect that Shermann has captured and burnt<br/>
Macon and Milledgeville, and was advancing towards<br/>
Savannah. The steamer Atlantic, which left Savan-<br/>
nah River on the 22nd, brings the same news as<br/>
a "current rumour," and both have probably the<br/>
same sources. On the other hand, Georgian papers<br/>
say that Shermann had not occupied Macon up to the<br/>
21st, which may probably mean the evening of the<br/>
25th—a statement likely appear to be correct if it is<br/>
true as alleged in a previous telegram, that he was<br/>
18 miles from Macon on the 19th. Advices of the<br/>
20th relate that Sherman's advance had reached<br/>
Gordon on the Savannah railroad "60 miles east of<br/>
Macon," Now Gordon is not 60 miles east of Macon,<br/>
but barely 25 miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Northern papers stated at the outset that while<br/>
the bulk of Sherman's army marched southeast to<br/>
Macon, one or two corps marched due East towards<br/>
Augusta. In all probability this and body of troops<br/>
marches along the Augusta line as far as Covington,<br/>
destroying the town call Stone Mountain and the<br/>
other stations along their root, and at Covington thrn-<br/>
ed off towards Macon. The road, which on this<br/>
supposition they must have taken, would lead them<br/>
through Monticello, Hillsborough, and Clinton, the<br/>
towns reported to have been destroyed, and enabled<br/>
the to rejoin Sherman either at Macon or at Gor-<br/>
don, where, as we have seen, the latest reports placed<br/>
him. He would then have his entire force within<br/>
reach to proceed either towards Augusta or Savan-<br/>
nah, places which he is not liekly to approach with<br/>
a divided army. Macon is said to be strongly for-<br/>
tified and it was thought that Sherman might not<br/>
attack it, but move directly upon Augusta, and sub-<br/>
sequently upon Savannah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Lincoln has proclaimed that the block ade<br/>
at Norfork, Virginia, and Frenands Pensacola, Flor-<br/>
ida, shall be raised, and these ports open to domes-<br/>
tic and foreign commerce on and after the 1st prox-<br/>
imo, subject to the necessities of war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York was thrown into a state of panic on the<br/>
night of the 26th Ult., by the discovery of a horrible<br/>
attempt to burn down the city. Between nice and<br/>
ten o'clock fires were discovered in eight of the prin-<br/>
cipal hotels, to two of which theatres were attached,<br/>
and also in Baraum's Museum, which was crowded<br/>
at the time with women and childre. The means<br/>
adopted by the incendiaries were the same in each<br/>
instance. Some person or persons unknown en-<br/>
gaged a room at the hotels, placed phosphorus and<br/>
other combustibles under the beds, or in the bed<br/>
clothes, set fire to them, and then retired, locking<br/>
the doors after them. These attempts were, no doubt,<br/>
intended to be simultaneous, but from some cause<br/>
not explained, an interval of an hour or an hour and<br/>
a half elapsed between the earliest and the latest.<br/>
Fortunately the fires were easily extinguished Two<br/>
persons are in custody on suspicion of being con-<br/>
cerned in this affair, and it is supposed that Con-<br/>
federate emisarises are connected with it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hon. Reuben E. Fenton Governor-elect of the<br/>
State of New York, in responding to a serenade at<br/>
the Astor Honse, stated that hereafter the State shall<br/>
occupy no hesitating or equivocal position. The is-<br/>
sue presented to the people, he said, was whether<br/>
they would maintain the government in its integ-<br/>
grity, or whether the advantages gained over the<br/>
Confederates should be surrendered, thus acknow-<br/>
ledging the inability of the North to maintain the <br/>
contest, and becoming the laughing stock and de- <br/>
rision of mankind.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
FRANCE
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Count of Correctional Appeal in Paris has<br/>
affirmed the judgment in the court below with respect<br/>
to the thirteen deputues who were defneded by M.Ber-<br/>
ryer and other eniment lawyers. Thirteen gentle-<br/>
men, it will be remembered, were prosecuted by<br/>
the Imperial Government for holding what was<br/>
alleged to be an illegal meeting. They were part of<br/>
a permanent election committee; and it appears that<br/>
the law permits twenty persons to meet under cer-<br/>
tain circumstances, only thirteen were put on their<br/>
trial, and condemned, and an appeal was carried to<br/>
the Correctional tribunal in favor either of the dis-<br/>
missal of the accused, or that their colleagues should<br/>
be tried along with them. The court, however,<br/>
merely confirmed the sentence of the court below.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
AUSTRIA
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lower House of the Austrian Reichsrath has<br/>
concluded its debate on the address to the Throne.<br/>
The draft of the address was adopted, and will be<br/>
at once sent to the Emperor in writing. The address<br/>
is liberal and progressive in many of its expressions,<br/>
and denotes a decided tendency towards conciliation<br/>
within the empire and peaceful relations abroad.<br/>
One paragraph calling for an official statement of<br/>
the causes and the results of the state of siege now<br/>
existing is Gallacia, was adopted despite the stren-<br/>
uous resistance of the Miniscura.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the sitting of the Frank fort Dist on the 15th<br/>
inst. the Austro-Prussian proposition for the evacu-<br/>
ation of Holstein and Lauenberg by the Federal troops<br/>
was carried by nine votes against six. Saxony,<br/>
Bavaria, Wurtemberg, and Darmstadt voted with<br/>
the minority. The representatives of Austria and<br/>
Prussia then intimated that the civil Commission-<br/>
ers of the two powers in Sehleswig would likewise<br/>
undertake the admimistratio of Holstein and Lau-<br/>
enborg. It is felt in the Prissian capital, that M.de<br/>
Bismark will be triumphant also in naming the<br/>
succession to the throne of the Duchies. Austria and<br/>
Prussia, it is said, claim the right of nominating<br/>
to the Diet a proper representative in the successions,<br/>
and there is little hope of the appointment being<br/>
made in any other manner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Prussia and Germany.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The victorious Prussian troops returning from the<br/>
Danish war entered Berlin in triumph on the 7th<br/>
inst. The King was at their head, the houses. were<br/>
decorated, the streets were lined by enthusiastic<br/>
thousands, and at night there was a brilliant illumi-<br/>
nation. The King addressed the officers and men<br/>
who had been rewarded for distinguised conduct<br/>
during the campaign
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Valuable lead mines have just been discovered in<br/>
the province of Muster (Prussia.) The Buerneskal-<br/>
le, of Hamburg, says that the ore is so abundant<br/>
and so rich, that it would suffice for the supply of<br/>
all Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Russia
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor of Russia has just issued a ukase<br/>
extending the abolition of serfdom to Transcaucasia,<br/>
the only province of the Russian empire where that<br/>
institation still exists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Denmark.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from Copenhagen, that the King of<br/>
Denmark visited Kolding, on the borders of Schles-<br/>
wig. on the 6th inst, and his presence there was,<br/>
according to these advices, the occasion of a note-<br/>
worthy incident. Several thousand Schleswigers, it<br/>
is said, wished to visit and pay homage to him, but<br/>
the authorities forbade them, and arrested several<br/>
persons in consequence of their persistence. Another<br/>
telegram states that a deputation of 3,000 Schleswig-<br/>
ers waited upon the King, and presented an address<br/>
to him, declaring their desire to remain under his<br/>
rule.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A TELEGRAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
New York, Dec. 8th.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President’s message expresses the determi-<br/>
nation to vigorously prosecute the war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No movements of the Army are reported.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty at the request of H. B. M.<br/>
Consul, despatched the Gun boat Success-in—<br/>
arms, to seek for the Capt. and remainder<br/>
of the crew of the "Fah-Kee" She left<br/>
on Friday 27th ult.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By Steamer Chow Phya, news has been<br/>
received that the Capt. of the Fah-Kee<br/>
with his men after enduring name hardships<br/>
arrived safely at Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Ed.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
REMARKABLE DELIVERANCE— At the
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
battle of Stone River, a young man, a<br/>
member of the Board of Trade Battery—<br/>
and also a member of the First Baptist<br/>
Church, Chicago— was detailed, with others,<br/>
as a postillion to take charge of the horses<br/>
while detached from the guns. He sat down<br/>
behind a stump. Presently the thought<br/>
struck him, "It looks cowardly for me to<br/>
be sitting here while the rest of the boys<br/>
stand out there exposed and unprotected,"<br/>
and upon the impulse sprang up. He had<br/>
scarcely gone a halter's length when a can-<br/>
non ball struck the stump and shivered it to<br/>
atoms, and would have killed him instantly<br/>
had he remained in his seat two seconds<br/>
longer!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBBERY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house of Coured Cansaper, Pilot, in Poot Toh's<br/>
buildings, was entered on Thursday evening the<br/>
26th instant, and $83 taken out of a chest.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_8_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
๏ น้ำมันดิน ๚ะ
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ นับ ตั้ง แต่ จุลศักราช ๑๒๒๖ ปี<br/>
ชวด ฉคก นี้, ถอย ขึ้น ไป ได้ ประมาณ ได้ ๕ <br/>
ปี มา แล้ว. ที่ ใน เมือง เปน ซิลเวเนีย, แล<br/>
เมือง เวอริลเนีย, ใน ประเทศ อเมริกัน <br/>
นั้น, ชาว บ้าน ชาว เมือง ไต้ พิจารณา เหน <br/>
ว่า, คง จะ มี น้ำมัน อยู่ ไต้ ดิน ที่ นั้น, หลาย<br/>
ว่า ถ้า เจาะ แส่นดิน ลง ไป สัก หน่อย หนึ่ง, <br/>
คง จะ ภบ น้ำมัน ดินใน ที่ นั้น. เขา ทั้ง <br/>
หลาย จึ่ง ชวน เข้า กัน เปน พวก ๆ ขุด ลง<br/>
ไป, จึ่ง ได้ ภบ น้ำมัน ลม ยังใจ นึก มาก <br/>
มาย นัก หนา. ปล่อง ที่ เจาะ ลง ไป นั้น, บ้าง
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_9_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r132">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. FEB. 1st 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rd9">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Bound</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Booek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Kaniput</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Elisabeth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amerstadt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">608</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ions</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">547</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ions</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">547</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Foo Chow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kim Quang Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Grant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Tye Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ben Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kusrevie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Grey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siries</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Booek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Eusure</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Mandarin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Guffafbrand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">351</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schorder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Illinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ben Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Chipese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">337</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_9_2 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r131">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rce">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Sarms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Barquue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r49">...</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">...</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ben Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Euznre</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lanckenau</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schorder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">608</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prouse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">E.Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Euphrates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Behmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Roberts</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">198</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rictoraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Five Stars</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Guan Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ritcheu</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Betsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">251</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hanoverian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Mary Rose</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Meisner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">545</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reparing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kofoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brinroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seaman's Bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rother</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Choa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seaforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Concepcion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">312</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sen Tai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St.George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">320</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Berhun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">403</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Torgenseu</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Baruq</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Tye Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
ที่ ก็ ฦก ประมาณ ได้ สืบ ห้า วา บ้าง, สาม สิบ<br/>
วา บ้าง, ที่ สี่ สิบ หก วา ก็ มี บ้าง. น้ำมัน ดิน<br/>
นั้น เมื่อ แรก ภบ ยัง ใช้ ไม่ ได้, ตอ้ง ชำระ<br/>
เสีย กอ่น. แล เขา เจาะ ปล่อง นั้น ดว้ย<br/>
เครื่อง จัคร ใช้ ดว้ย อาบ น้ำ อัน รอ้น, แล้ว<br/>
จึ่ง บาง แหง ก็ สูบ ได้ น้ำมัน ประมาณ วัน<br/>
ละ ๔๕๐๐​ภัง บ้าง, ๑๕๐๐๐​ถัง บ้าง,<br/>
๔๕๐๐๐​บ้าง, น้ำมัน นั้ เมื่อ ชำระ แล้ว, ใช้<br/>
จุด ไฟ ตาม ตะเกียง ดี กว่า น้ำมัน มะพร้าว นี้<br/>
อีก, แต่ บาง ที ก็​บังเกิด อันตราย เพราะ<br/>
น้ำมัน นั้น บ้าง. คือ ว่า ที่ บ่อ น้ำมัน นั้น, ฤๅ<br/>
ที่ ใด ๆ ถ้า ไฟ ติด ไห้ม ขื้น แล้ว, ก็​ดับ ไม่<br/>
ใค่ร ได้, กว่า น้ำมัน นั้น จะ ไห้ม เสีย หมด.<br/>
บังเกิด มี ขื้น สอง แห่ง สาม แห่ง แล้ว, ที่<br/>
เกิด เพลิง ขื้น แล้ว, ยัง ดับ ไม่ ได้ จน ถึง<br/>
ทุก วัน นี้. จะ ไห้ม น้ำมัน หมด เมื่อไร, ก็<br/>
ยัง กำหนด ไม่ ได้.​ ครั้ง หนึ่ง เกิด เพลิง<br/>
ติด ขื้น ที่ ปล่อง แห่ง หนึ่ง, เปลว ไพ นั้น<br/>
พลุ่ง โพลง ขื้น ไป, ติด ไห้ม ปล่อง อื่น อื่น ที่<br/>
ใก้ล นั้น ต่อ ไป, แล้ว ไฟ นั้น ก็ วูบ ไห้ม<br/>
เอา คน นาย งาน นั้น ตาย ดว้ย.   ๚ะ
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ถึง มาตร ว่า ได้ ภบ บ่อ น้ำมัน ดิน,​แต่<br/>
เพียง ห้า ปี ลง มา นั้น, ทุก วัน นี้ ก็ มี คน<br/>
ชัด ชวน กัน เข้า ทำ การ นั้น, ได้ ๒๕๐<br/>
พวก ใหญ่ ๆ แล้ว, แล เขา ได้ ลง ทูน<br/>
ทรัพย์ นับ รวม กัน เข้า ได้ ประมาณ ๑๕๐<br/>
ล้าน เหรียญ. แล น้ำมัน นั้น เขา ได้ ขาย<br/>
ใน ประเทศ ยุรบ, แล ประเทศ อื่น ต่าง ๆ<br/>
นั้น, ประมาณ ได้ ปี ละ ๕๐ ล้าน เหรียญ.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
น้ำมัน ดิน นั้น เขา ขาย ถูก กว่า น้ำมัน<br/>
มะพร้าว ใน กาล วัน นี้, ถ้า น้ำมัน มะ<br/>
พร้าว จะ มี ราคา แพง อยู่ เหมือน ใน สอง ปี<br/>
นี้, อีก สัก หน่อย หนึ่ง, พ่อ ค้า นาย ห้าง ก็<br/>
จัก บัน ทุก น้ำมัน ดิน นั้น, เข้า มา ขาย ใน<br/>
เมือง ไทย นี้ ก็ เห็น ว่า จะ ได้ กำไร งาม.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
มี คน หลาย คน ที่ เคย ได้ สังเกด ดิน<br/>
ที่ มี น้ำมัน ดิน นั้น, เขา หมาย ว่า คง จะ<br/>
มี น้ำมัน ดิน ใน ประเทศ ไทย นี้ บ้าง. ถ้า มี<br/>
คน อุษ่าห์ เพียร ขุด เจาะ ลง ไป ใน แผ่น ดิน<br/>
ไทย, ก็ เหน ว่า จะ ได้ ภบ น้ำมัน ดิน บ้าง.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_10_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
๏ ข่าวใหม่   ๚
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อาบระฮัม ลินกัล, ที่ เปน ปริศเต๊นต์<br/>
ใน เมือง ยุไนเต๊ดซ ประเทศ อเมริกัน, ในสี่<br/>
ปี นี้, ชาว เมือง ทั้ง ปวง เขา ได้ เลือก ตั้ง<br/>
ขึ้น ไว้ ให้ เปน เจ้า แผ่นดิน ต่อ ไป อีก สี่ ปี.<br/>
ใน กาล ที่ เลือก ปริศเต๊นต์ นั้น, เขา ได้ ตั้ง<br/>
ขึ้น สอง คน, แต่ จะ เลือก เอา แต่ คน<br/>
หนึ่ง, ถ้า ฉลาก ที่ มี ชื่อ คน ไหน มาก, คน<br/>
นั้น ก็​ ได้ เปน เจ้า เมือง.​ฝ่าย อาบระฮาม<br/>
ลินกัล คน นี้,​ได้ ฉลาก มาก กว่า,​เช็ลเออ<br/>
รัลแมคแคลีนลันต์ นั้น ๔๐๐๐๐๐ ​ฉลาก,<br/>
จึ่ง เข้า ใจ ว่า เปน การ ชะนะ ใหญ่,​เพราะ<br/>
ชาว เมือง เหน ดี ดว้ย มาก. คน ทั้ง ปวง ที่<br/>
เคย ได้ สังเกต การ ศึก ที่ เมือง อเมริกัน นั้น,<br/>
ก็ ​เข้าใจ ว่า,​ ที่ อาบระฮัม ลินกัล ได้ ชะนะ<br/>
ใหญ่ เช่น นี้, ดี กว่า ได้ ทหาร ชว่ย อุด หนุน<br/>
ใน การสงคราม นั้น ได้ ๑๐๐๐๐๐​ หนึ่ง,​แล<br/>
เข้าใจ ว่า,​การ พวก ขบถ นั้น คง จะ แพ้ ลง<br/>
ราบคาบ เร็ว, จะ ไม่ ยอม ให้ พวก ขบถ นั้น<br/>
ตั้ง เปน เมือง ขึ้น ได้ เลย.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง มีศเตอซีโมร, ที่ ได้ เปน เจ้า<br/>
เมือง นุยอก ได้ สาม ปี มา แล้ว นั้น, มี ใจ<br/>
เช้อ ดวัย ฝ่าย พวก ขบถ, ทำ การ ขัด ชอ้ง<br/>
ปริศเต็นต์ ลินกัล ต่าง ๆ นั้น, ชาว เมือง<br/>
ตั้ง ปวง ไม่ ชอบ, จึง ได้ เลือก เอา คน อื่น,<br/>
ตั้ง เปน เจ้า เมือง ขึ้น แทน, ที่ มี ใจ เข้า<br/>
ดว้ย ปริศเต็นต์ ลินกัล นั้น.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง กอง เกร็ศ คือ พวก ประชุม กัน<br/>
ว่า การ ฝ่าย พวก ขบถ นั้น, ได้ ประชุม กัน<br/>
เพื่อ จะ ว่า การ ต่อ ไป. ฝ่าย มีศเตอ เดวิศ<br/>
ผู้ เปน เจ้า เมือง ฝ่าย พวก ขบถ นั้น, ได้ ว่า<br/>
กล่าว เพื่อ จะ ให้ กองเกร็ศ นั้น ชื่น ชม, ให้ มี<br/>
ใจ ทำ การ ศึก สงคราม ต่อ ไป. กอ้น นั้น<br/>
มี ข่าว เล่า ฦๅ มา ว่า กองเกร็ศ ฝ่าย ขบถ<br/>
นั้น, จะ จัก แจง ให้ พวก ทาษ ของ เขา เปน<br/>
ทหาร. มี ข่าว มา ใหม่ ว่า คองเกร็ศ ฝ่าย<br/>
ขบถ นั้น ไม่ ยอม, ยอม แต่ เพียง จะ ให้<br/>
ทาษ นั้น ปฏิบัติ ทหาร, ไม่ ให้ ถือ เครื่อง<br/>
อาวุธธ์.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_10_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
๏ นี้ ข่าว กงสุล อังกฤษ.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง ข่าว มี มา เมื่อ กำปั่น ไฟ เจ้า พระ<br/>
ยก เข้า มา ควาว นี้ ว่า , กวีน วิกโตเรีย กระ<br/>
ษัตร เจ้า เมือง อังกฤษ , ได้ ตั้ง ให้ มิศเตอ<br/>
ตำมัส ซอซ นอค นั้น, เปน กงสุล อังกฤษ,<br/>
สำรับ กรุงเทพ ฯ .    ฯะ
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
๏ อนึ่ง เอ็มปีรอ เจ้า เมือง รุเซีย นั้น, มี<br/>
หมาย ประกาษ ให้ ปล่อย พวก ทาย ใน เมือง<br/>
แตรนซะกอเกเซีย , ที่ ขึ้น อยู่ กับ เมือง<br/>
รุเซีย นั้น ให้ สิ้น เชิง , อย่า ให้ ใช้ ทาษ สืบ<br/>
ต่อ ไป เลย. ใน ที่ หัว เมือง นั้น ได้ ปล่อย<br/>
พวก ทาษ เปน ครั้ง ที่ สุด ภาย หลัง กว่า หัว<br/>
เมือง อื่น ทั้ง ปวง ใน ประเทศ นั้น. ใน กาล<br/>
ทุก วัน นี้ ประเทศ บุ เซีย นั้น, ห้าม มิ ให้ ใช้<br/>
ทาษ ต่อ ไป เลย, จึง มี ความ ศุข สำราญ<br/>
มาก ขึ้น กว่า แต่ กอ่น นัก.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
