---
linkTitle: 'July 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 1st'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 12
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: left;">BANGKOK SATURDAY JULY 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">NO. 13</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok July 1st.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The city has settled down again into its<br/>
usual monotony. Since our last issue we<br/>
have scarcely a local item worth recording.<br/>
The presence of the officers and band from<br/>
H. B. M. Ship Princess Royal for a short<br/>
time revived our spirits, but since there<br/>
departure we have experienced a kind of<br/>
reaction. A visit to this port from so large<br/>
a vessel as the Princess Royal, and especially<br/>
the Flag ship of Admiral King, is an event<br/>
to be remembered. Some of us who had<br/>
never seen so large a war vessel were an-<br/>
xious to pay her a visit. Admiral King<br/>
kindly invited all those who were desirous<br/>
to visit the Princess Royal to do so on Friday<br/>
June 16th, it being the regular day for drill<br/>
exercise on board.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A company of nineteen persons, according-<br/>
ly secured the Steamer Fairy, and left the<br/>
city on the night of the 15th, about 11<br/>
o'clock, intending to go outside and anchor<br/>
till daylight, and then be at the Princess<br/>
Royal about 8 o'clock in the morning.<br/>
We anchored about 3 o'clock and about<br/>
daylight, when we were expecting to steam<br/>
off to the ship, we were informed that we<br/>
had broken down. This was rather an un-<br/>
pleasant situation to be in, as we had not<br/>
laid in provisions for any such emergency.<br/>
We however managed to make a good break-<br/>
fast on ham, hump, and bread. We raised<br/>
the signal of distress and tried in vain to get<br/>
some native sailing boats to come to our<br/>
assistance. The Siamese ship Paragon sent<br/>
a boat to us, but being unable to give us<br/>
any assistance on our way towards the<br/>
Princess Royal we dismissed it with thanks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fortunately the Maggie Lauder came<br/>
along with a vessel in tow, and we chartered<br/>
her to return, after going in to Paknam,<br/>
and take us out to the Princess Royal. Whilst<br/>
we were waiting for the Maggie Lauder the<br/>
Siamese Steamer Rapidity came along, and<br/>
fearing lest the Maggie Lauder might not<br/>
be able to cross the bar again until nex<br/>
tide we hailed the Rapidity. Fearing how-<br/>
ever she might not heed our call, and hav-<br/>
ing some of the officers of the Princess<br/>
Royal with us, we had them dress in full<br/>
uniform and placed in a conspicious place,<br/>
to give the call an air of authority. After<br/>
considerable calling on our part the com-<br/>
mander of the Rapidity brought her too,<br/>
and "laid her alongside of us in a most<br/>
gallant manner," and we then informed<br/>
him what we wanted. Having had orders,<br/>
however, to return immediately to Bangkok,<br/>
he was unwilling to transgress his orders<br/>
lest his back might suffer the penalty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After we had assumed the responsibility<br/>
he agreed and we went on board, leaving the<br/>
Maggie Lauder to follow and bring us<br/>
back. We arrived on board of the Princess<br/>
Royal about 12 o'clock, m. and were most<br/>
kindly entertained by Captain W, G, Jones<br/>
and his brother officers. After a little rest<br/>
and partaking of an excellent lunch we<br/>
were entertained with some target practice<br/>
which had been postponed for our benefit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A number of rounds were fired at tar-<br/>
gets at the distance of 1000 and 1200 yards.<br/>
The shooting we considered excellent but<br/>
we could scarcely be considered judges, as<br/>
few of us had ever witnessed anything of<br/>
the kind before. Every shot however that<br/>
was fired, would have taken effect in the<br/>
hull of a very small vessel. Most of us<br/>
left the Princess Royal about 5 o'clock P. M.<br/>
but some remained on board until next day.<br/>
Our stay on the Princess Royal was a most<br/>
pleasant one, and the officers have our<br/>
heartfelt thanks for the manner in which<br/>
they entertained us. Our passage home<br/>
was not so pleasant, as the night was dark,<br/>
the cabin of the steamer small, and to help<br/>
the matter we were favored with a shower<br/>
of rain. The steam in the cabin, too, some-<br/>
times rose higher than that in the engine<br/>
house, but we are happy to say that few, if<br/>
any, of our party were effected by it. We<br/>
arrived at home about 1 o'clock on Satur-<br/>
day morning, amply repaid by what we had<br/>
seen, for all our difficulties on the way.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tuileries.—During the.
Revolution.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 105)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was from the Tuileries, that on the<br/>
night of the 20th June 1791, Louis and his<br/>
family set out on their ill managed and un-<br/>
fortunate attempt to escape from the king-<br/>
dom. Preparations for this flight had been<br/>
for some time making. The person with<br/>
whom the necessary arrangements were<br/>
concerted, for facilitating the departure of<br/>
the fugitives and protecting them from in-<br/>
terruption on their route, was the Marquis<br/>
de Bouillé, then military commandant of<br/>
the department of la Meurthe, la, Meuse,<br/>
la Moselle, and la Marne, comprising the<br/>
whole immediate territory from Paris to<br/>
the frontiers of the Low Countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notwithstanding all the Marquis' efforts<br/>
and representations on the discretion, for-<br/>
titude, and calmness necessary for such an<br/>
enterprise, he could not for a long time get<br/>
the king to fix the day. At last, after<br/>
many delays, the king wrote to him that<br/>
on the 19th June he hoped to be ready to<br/>
take his departure. But in the letter con-<br/>
veying this intimation, the writer forgot to<br/>
prefix to his cyphers the mark indicating<br/>
where there key was to be found. And it<br/>
cost M. de Bouillé eight hours labor, be-<br/>
fore he discovered the secret of their inter-<br/>
pretation. He immediately sent off the<br/>
Duke de Choiseul to the king to say that<br/>
every thing would be ready by the 19th and<br/>
that in case of any absolutely insurmount-<br/>
able impediment arising, the attempt might<br/>
still succeed although deferred till the 20th,<br/>
but after that day no chance would remain.<br/>
Although the king received this message,<br/>
he delayed till twelve o'clock on the night<br/>
of the 20th June, literally the very last<br/>
minute allowed by de Bouillé. It does not<br/>
belong to our present purpose to recount<br/>
the story of the ill-starred journey: 'tis<br/>
enough to say that the enterprise had bet-<br/>
ter never been undertaken by such imbecile<br/>
hands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Who remembers not the words which<br/>
Shakespear puts into the mouth of the<br/>
Priest Pandulph.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"For that which thou hast sworn to do<br/>
amiss,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Is not amiss when it is bravely done;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And being not done, where doing tends<br/>
to ill,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The truth is then most done, not doing<br/>
it;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The better act of purposes mistook
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Is to mistake again."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Paris in the meanwhile the news of the<br/>
flight of the Royal family had been spread,<br/>
and by eight o'clock crowds began to as-<br/>
semble around the Tuileries, the Hall of<br/>
the National Assembly, and other public<br/>
places. The general sentiment of indigna-<br/>
tion against the Monarch soon began to<br/>
display itself by the defacement of the<br/>
royal arms, and other similar emblems<br/>
wherever they presented themselves. The<br/>
assembly having met at 9 o'clock, the Mayor<br/>
immediately repaired to their Hall to an-<br/>
nounce in form "L' enlèvement de le roi"<br/>
or the carrying off of the king, as it was<br/>
styled. On which with dignified calmness<br/>
and an unanimity becoming the crisis, that<br/>
body passed the necessary decrees for the<br/>
despatch of couriers after the fugitive, the<br/>
detention of any person attempting to leave<br/>
the kingdom, and the maintainance of the<br/>
executive government during the absence of<br/>
its head. Drouet, the post master at Cler-<br/>
mont, was one of the parties who first re-<br/>
cognised the king, and he despatched his<br/>
son to Varennes to communicate what he<br/>
suspected to the magistrate of that town.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Accordingly when the king disguised as<br/>
a valet, applied for the passport, necessary<br/>
to enable them to pursue their journey; he<br/>
was informed that they could not be per-<br/>
mitted to leave the place that night. About<br/>
half past six on the morning of the 22d M.<br/>
Roment, aid-de-camp of Gen. Lafayette,<br/>
and M. Baillou a municipal officer arrived<br/>
at the town, and immediately proceeded to<br/>
the house in which their Majesties were<br/>
detained, and delivered to the king the de-<br/>
cree of the National Assembly for his arrest.<br/>
At eight o'clock the Royal family quietly<br/>
submitted to again take their seats in order<br/>
to be driven to Paris, in the same carriage<br/>
which had conveyed them from that capital.<br/>
Returning by Clermont and St. Menehould<br/>
they arrived about 11 o'clock at night<br/>
at Chalons where they remained till next<br/>
morning. Continuing their route they pro-<br/>
ceeded that day as far as Epernay. Here<br/>
they were joined by Messers Barnave,<br/>
Petion, De Latour, and Maubourg the com-<br/>
missioners from the National Assembly,<br/>
the two former of whom took their places<br/>
in the carriage with their Majesties. An<br/>
immense multitude and an army accompani-<br/>
ed their progress. They passed the night<br/>
of the 24th at Dormans, and at 7 o'clock<br/>
in the evening of the following day the royal<br/>
carriage, escorted by about ten thousand of<br/>
the National guards, and a mob whose<br/>
numbers had been rapidly increasing all<br/>
the way from Varennes, and amongst whom<br/>
scenes the most shocking to humanity en-<br/>
sued, * as they followed the royal carriage<br/>
along the Boulevards as far as the palace of<br/>
Louis XV where it entered the garden of<br/>
the Tuileries by the Pont Tournant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Royal family remained in a state of<br/>
confinement until the 3d Sept following,<br/>
when the new constitution was presented<br/>
to the king by a deputation of sixty of the<br/>
assembly, and was accepted by His Majesty,<br/>
while the Queen, the Dauphin and his sis-<br/>
ter presented themselves at the door of the<br/>
apartment. After expressing in general<br/>
terms his attachment to the liberties of the<br/>
people, "there" said His Majesty to the<br/>
deputies "are my wife and my children<br/>
whose sentiments are the same as my own."<br/>
The Queen felt it necessary to confirm this<br/>
assurance however for she was from parts<br/>
king of the feelings of confidence and hope<br/>
which it seemed to imply. The next day<br/>
His Majesty proceeded to the Hall of the<br/>
assembly to give his public assent to the<br/>
new constitution. A discharge of cannon<br/>
announced the approach of His Majesty,<br/>
who, having entered the Hall, seated him-<br/>
self on a chair which had been placed for<br/>
him beside that of the President.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The members meanwhile remaining in<br/>
their places without rising, the king himself<br/>
rose when about to read his address: but<br/>
on perceiving that no one else followed his<br/>
example, he resumed his seat and proceed-<br/>
ed to speak as follows, "I have come, gen-<br/>
tlemen, to ratify solemnly in this place the<br/>
acceptance of the constitution which has<br/>
already been announced to me. I swear to<br/>
be faithful to the Nation and to the laws,<br/>
and to employ all the power delegated to<br/>
me in maintaining the constitution, and<br/>
causing the laws to be executed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a few words in reply from the<br/>
President his Majesty signed the constitu-<br/>
tion, and then retiring from the Hall was<br/>
followed by the whole of the members who<br/>
escorted him to the sound of military music<br/>
as far as the door of the palace. As soon<br/>
however as he had escaped from public<br/>
gaze the Monarch gave free vent to the ex-<br/>
pression of very different sentiments from<br/>
those he had so recently proclaimed. Pro-<br/>
ceeding to the apartments of the Queen, who<br/>
had also been present at the scene in the<br/>
assembly, he threw himself on a chair,<br/>
and while the tears gushed from his eyes,<br/>
addressed himself to her Majesty, bewail-<br/>
ing in the bitterest terms what he called<br/>
the humiliation, she had seen him undergo.<br/>
The Queen threw herself at his feet clung<br/>
to him and joined in his cries and lament-<br/>
ations. The prospect seemed to their<br/>
Majesties one of the deepest gloom, whilst<br/>
without the palace all was popular triumph<br/>
and rejoicing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Four days after the King's visit to the<br/>
assembly, a public Fete decreed by that.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
* Exquises Historiques 11. 81.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
body was celebrated in Paris, in honor of<br/>
the great act, the completion of the edifice<br/>
of Freedom which had just been consumat-<br/>
ed. The constitution was solemnly proclaim-<br/>
ed by the civic authorities, before the<br/>
Hotel de Ville, in the place du Carrousel,<br/>
in the Rue St. Honore, opposite the place<br/>
Vendome, and in the Champ de Mars. In<br/>
the evening the city was brilliantly illum-<br/>
inated, and no where was there seen a more<br/>
splendid display of festoons of lights, trans-<br/>
parencies, and other such ornaments than<br/>
along the front of the Tuileries, and in the<br/>
garden of that palace. The Royal family<br/>
drove in their carriage through the streets<br/>
to witness the rejoicings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Madame de Campan relates, that when-<br/>
ever the cry of "vive le roi" was uttered<br/>
by the crowd around the royal carriage, a<br/>
man who had stationed himself by its side,<br/>
and steadily kept his place there, immedi-<br/>
ately cried out "Ne les croyez pas, vive la<br/>
nation." Dulaure remarks that the general<br/>
sentiment was most correctly expressed by<br/>
a transparency which a shoemaker of the<br/>
Rue St. Honore had placed over the door<br/>
of his shop exhibiting the following words
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent4 >}}"Vive le roi<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}S'il est de bonne foi."<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, May 20th.—Cotton mar-<br/>
ket active. Fair dhollera 11d. 7 lbs. Shirt-<br/>
ings 10s. 9d. weeks sale 88,000 Bales.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Federals have offered 100,000 dollars<br/>
for Davis
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Johnston has accused Davis of planning<br/>
Lincoln's assassination.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, May 26th.—Davis captured<br/>
and conveyed to Washington strongly<br/>
guarded. Trial of conspirators not to be<br/>
public. French minister presented creden-<br/>
tials. Reciprocal expressions of friend-<br/>
ship. Emigration excitement subsided.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bank rate discount 4 per cent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fair Dhollers Cotton 11d. New ditto<br/>
12½d. Oomrawatte 11d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, May 29th.—-Coffee firm.<br/>
Tinnevelly Cotton steady nine pence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fact of no political Telegrams ar-<br/>
riving, shows an absence of any news of<br/>
great importance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bombay, June 1st.—Leckie & Co.<br/>
failed. Dirom, Davidson & Co. Liverpool<br/>
reported to have failed. Remington, Carte-<br/>
wright & Co. London failed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Court.-—The fifth Court has been held<br/>
by Her Majesty and a State Ball by the<br/>
Prince and Princess of Wales. Prince<br/>
Alfred has returned to Bonn to finish his<br/>
studies. Her Majesty leaves for Balmoral<br/>
on the 19th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Parliament.-—The Indian army, civil<br/>
and transport services, and naval officers in<br/>
the Straits of Malacca, have engaged atten-
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
tion. Lord Palmerston has returned to his<br/>
post.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
France.-—The Emperor was to embark<br/>
for Oran, from Algiers, on the 14th. The<br/>
session of the Corps Legislatif is prolonged<br/>
to the 15th June.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Belgium.-—The King's health has im-<br/>
proved so much that the bulletins are dis-<br/>
continued.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Schleswig-Holstein Duchies.—-<br/>
Prussia proposes to convoke the Diet of<br/>
the two Duchies, and to negotiate with that<br/>
body directly, the Duke of Augustenburg<br/>
removing from Kiel. Austria consents to<br/>
the convocation of the Diet, but insists that<br/>
the Duke should remain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Russia.—-Great preparations are mak-<br/>
ing for the funeral of the late Czarewitch.<br/>
The epidemic, after having declined, is said<br/>
to have again increased in intensity since<br/>
Easter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Holland.-—The Sugar-duties Bill has<br/>
passed, enacting a minimum revenue of<br/>
3,500,000fl. for that commodity. The<br/>
works on the North Sea Canal have been<br/>
stopped by a strike for wages, to which<br/>
the managers had to yield.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria, Switzerland, and the<br/>
Far East.—-It has been proposed to the<br/>
Austrian Government the take possession<br/>
of the Nicobar Islands. The Swiss Export<br/>
Company has done so well with China and<br/>
Japan, that they have declared a dividend<br/>
of 22 cent. Telegraphic messages may be<br/>
sent in French, from St. Petersburg, to<br/>
Teheran and Calcutta.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kingdom of Italy.-—The King has<br/>
arrived at Florence, where a grand festival<br/>
has been held in honour of Dante. An<br/>
official decree regulates the issue of the<br/>
new loan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Turkey.-—The Porte has expressed<br/>
its condolence for the assassination of Pres-<br/>
ident Lincoln. The Greek Patriarch and<br/>
Synod propose to excommunicate Prince<br/>
Couza for his dealings with Church pro-<br/>
perty. The Prince of Servia demands the<br/>
demolition of all the mosques in the Princip-<br/>
ality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Canada.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Grand Jury of Toronto have found<br/>
a true bill of indictment against Jacob<br/>
Thompson, C. C. Clay, and others, for a<br/>
breach of the neutrality laws. Macdonald<br/>
has been committed for trial charged with<br/>
equipping the Georgian as a pirate of the<br/>
Northern Lakes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Mexico
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Matamoras, via New Or-<br/>
leans, assert that Cortinas had occupied<br/>
Salvillo, and was within eighteen miles of<br/>
Matamoras. A portion of Cortinas' troops<br/>
are said to have already entered the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Imperialists, under Argon, had<br/>
been routed at Piedras Negras.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to intelligence from Vera<br/>
Cruz to the 18th, via Havannah, Puman-<br/>
dico had surrendered to Juarista. The<br/>
revolutionists continued their depredations<br/>
around Morelia. They had been repulsed<br/>
at Hualipha.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Paris Correspondent writes:-—" I men-<br/>
tioned in a recent letter that Marshal<br/>
Bazaine had sent five more journalists to<br/>
gaol, and ordered their trial by court-mar-<br/>
tial. They have been sentenced to periods<br/>
of imprisonment varying from one month<br/>
to two years, and to fines ranging from 16f.<br/>
to 2,000f. A full report of the trials is not<br/>
yet forthcoming. On the day following the<br/>
judgment, however, Emperor Maximilian<br/>
proclaimed a general amnesty for press<br/>
offences."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Grant upon arriving at Raleigh no-<br/>
tified Gen. Sherman that the Government<br/>
disapproved of his arrangement with Gen.<br/>
Johnston, and ordered the renewal of hostili-<br/>
ties. Gen. Sherman notified Gen. John-<br/>
ston to that effect. Johnston therefore pro-<br/>
posed to surrender his army upon the same<br/>
terms as that of Northern Virginia. To<br/>
this Gen. Sherman acceded, and the formal<br/>
surrender was to have been made at Greens-<br/>
boro, North Carolina, April 29th. Gen.<br/>
Schofield was to receive the surrender in<br/>
person, take charge of the arms, artillery &c.<br/>
Gen. Johnston surrendered 27,400 troops,<br/>
together with Generals Beauregard, Hardie<br/>
and Breckenridge, and also North Carolina,<br/>
South Carolina, and the Gulf States Militia.<br/>
Wade Hampton refused to surrender, and<br/>
some reports say, he was shot by Johnston<br/>
in an altercation, but others say he escaped<br/>
with Davis. Dick Taylor has offered to<br/>
surrender to Gen. Canby on the same terms.<br/>
as Johnston. Negotiations are progressing<br/>
at the mouth of the Red River for the sur-<br/>
render of Kirby Smith on the same terms<br/>
as Lee. Nine hundred confederates at<br/>
Cumberland Gap have surrendered, Mosby,<br/>
Rosser, and Imboden are still at large. Gen.<br/>
Grant returned to Washington and com-<br/>
menced the reduction of the military esta-<br/>
blishments. It is estimated that 400,000<br/>
men will immediately be mustered out of<br/>
the service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnston has issued an order<br/>
removing all restrictions heretofore existing,<br/>
excepting such as are imposed by acts of<br/>
Congress, and the regulations of the Trea-<br/>
sury department, upon internal, domestic<br/>
and coastwise commercial intercourse in<br/>
the ports of Virginia, North Carolina, South<br/>
Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, and Louisi-<br/>
ana. Chief Justice Chase, and Treasury agent<br/>
Mellin have started for the coast and river<br/>
cities of the South to reestablish courts of<br/>
justice, and trade regulations. Gen. Hal-<br/>
leck, who has been placed over the depart-<br/>
ment of the James, has ordered all persons<br/>
trading, or holding office to take the oath<br/>
of allegience. No marriage licences are to<br/>
be granted until the parties have taken the<br/>
oath of allegience. The trial of the persons<br/>
implicated in President Lincoln's assassin-<br/>
ation is to commence in Washington on the<br/>
second week in May. The Government has<br/>
notified its Consul General in Canada that<br/>
persons implicated in the murder must be<br/>
given up. Mr. Seward's health is almost<br/>
restored. He has had an apparatus fixed<br/>
to his lower jaw. May 3rd Gold 141½.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Federals captured at Mobile 215<br/>
heavy guns, 10,000 stand of arms, and over<br/>
30,000 bales of Cotton. About 10,000 Con-<br/>
federate stragglers are said to have come in<br/>
and surrendered. Many guerrilla bands<br/>
however still infest the neighborhood.<br/>
Four vessels of the Federal fleet including<br/>
one gun boat was destroyed by torpedoes<br/>
in the bay on April 14th. The Confeder-<br/>
ate ironclad ram Webb, came out of the<br/>
Red River on April 23rd and run past the<br/>
Federal gunboats on the Mississippi, going<br/>
at the rate of 25 miles per hour, she past<br/>
New Orleans with the United States flag<br/>
flying. Below the city she raised the Con-<br/>
federate flag. It is reported that her ma-<br/>
chinery became deranged and she was<br/>
blown up and abandoned about Fort St.<br/>
Philip. It is supposed she had on board<br/>
a large amount of specie and several pro-<br/>
minent Secessionest's going to Havannah.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Booth And His Accomplices.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following particulars of the capture<br/>
of Booth are taken from the newspaper re-<br/>
ports.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It having been ascertained pretty posi-<br/>
tively that the assassins had crossed the<br/>
Potomac, a force of Cavalry at once started<br/>
in pursuit, and on the 26th April the fig-<br/>
itives were found to have secreted them-<br/>
selves in a barn near Bowling-green, in<br/>
Caroline County, Virginia. A detachment<br/>
of 28 men, of the 16th New York cavalry,<br/>
came up and surrounded the barn. Booth's<br/>
flight having been impeded by a broken<br/>
leg, he having had his horse fall with him<br/>
on the night of the assassination, thereby<br/>
fracturing his ankle. This accident finally<br/>
led to his discovery. The surgeon who re-<br/>
duced the fracture was arrested in Mary-<br/>
land, and the necessary information derived.<br/>
from him and others in the same neigh-<br/>
borhood, conducted immediately to his<br/>
hiding place in the barn. As soon as the<br/>
barn was surrounded Booth was called upon<br/>
to surrender. The following colloquy is<br/>
said to have taken place between Booth and<br/>
Lieutenant Baker, of the cavalry:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baker : "You must give up your arms<br/>
and surrender, we will give you five min-<br/>
utes to consider, and then we will burn the<br/>
barn."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Booth : "Who are you, and what do<br/>
you want !"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baker : "We want you, and intend to<br/>
take you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Booth : "This is a hard case. I am a<br/>
cripple with one leg; but give me a chance<br/>
for my life. Withdraw your men one hun-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
dred yards from the barn, and I will come<br/>
out and fight."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baker: "We don't come here to fight,<br/>
but to take you prisoner. You must give<br/>
up your arms and surrender."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Booth: "I could pick off a dozen of you<br/>
while you are talking; but I do not wish<br/>
to kill anybody. I will never surrender<br/>
though. Never be taken alive."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baker: "Then we will fire the barn."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Booth: "Well, my brave boys, prepare<br/>
a stretcher for me."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harold by this time having concluded<br/>
to surrender, thrust his wrists through the<br/>
door to be handcuffed, and was then drag-<br/>
ged out, denounced as a coward by his<br/>
desperate companion. All this took place<br/>
in the dark, the night being cloudy. Co-<br/>
lonel Conger, in command of the cavalry,<br/>
being satisfied that further parley was use-<br/>
less, set fire to the hay through the crevices<br/>
of the barn, and the building was soon in<br/>
flames. Through the cracks between the<br/>
boards Booth was seen in the middle of the<br/>
floor leaning upon a crutch which he now<br/>
threw aside, and grasping a carbine he<br/>
limped towards the door. Serjeant Corbett,<br/>
who had crept up to the barn, now fired<br/>
through an aperture, the shot taking effect<br/>
in the head of Booth, who fell to the floor.<br/>
The soldiers then entered the barn and re-<br/>
moved the then dying man to the porch of<br/>
an adjoining house, and Colonel Conger at<br/>
once sent for a surgeon. Booth was at first<br/>
insensible, but finally revived a little, and<br/>
said to Colonel Conger in a feeble voice,<br/>
"Tell mother I die for my country; I did<br/>
what I thought was for the best." When<br/>
an effort was made to revive him by bath-<br/>
ing his hands and face with water, he ut-<br/>
tered the words, "Useless, useless!" and<br/>
soon afterwards expired. He was shot at<br/>
fifteen minutes past three A. M., and died<br/>
about four hours afterwards. His body was<br/>
conveyed to Washington, and is said to<br/>
have been fully identified and secretly<br/>
buried, being first merely sewed up in an<br/>
army blanket. The post mortem examin-<br/>
ation of Booth's body showed that the ball<br/>
did not touch the brain, but striking the<br/>
spinal column produced immediate paral-<br/>
ysis. The opinion of the surgeon is that he<br/>
must have died a horrible death, the brain<br/>
being active and consciousness complete<br/>
up to the very moment of his death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearly all the parties directly implicated<br/>
are now in custody. Payne, the would-be<br/>
assassin of Secretary Seward, is a brother<br/>
of the St. Alban's raider. There are six<br/>
brothers, all reckless and daring fellows.<br/>
Two were with Walker in Nicaragua.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harold has so far been quite reticent and<br/>
morose. His trial is to take place imme-<br/>
diately.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lewis Payne, the man who attacked<br/>
Secretary Seward, is now in gaol in Wash-<br/>
ington. He recently attempted to beat his<br/>
brains out against the iron bars of his cell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
but was prevented; securely bound, and his<br/>
head encased in a wadded cap, in order to<br/>
prevent any similar attempt at self destruc-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Booth seems to have been the animating<br/>
spirit of the whole affair (writes a New<br/>
York correspondent), and there is no doubt<br/>
that he entertained a plot of the kind fully<br/>
six months before he dealt the fatal blow.<br/>
A young man of magnificent address, and<br/>
imbued with unmistakable love for the<br/>
South, his fascinating manner enabled him<br/>
to make friends by the score in the Con-<br/>
federate families of Lower Maryland, and<br/>
he beat about this portion of the State for<br/>
months before carrying his plot into execu-<br/>
tion. His extensive acquaintance, and his<br/>
ready knowledge of human nature, enabled<br/>
him to pitch upon the right persons for as-<br/>
sociates. As originally contemplated, it is<br/>
unquestionable that he intended to im-<br/>
mortalise his name by the kidnapping of<br/>
the President: and as assistants in the de-<br/>
velopment of this idea many persons joined<br/>
the conspiracy who would not have done<br/>
so had they known that murder might grow<br/>
out of it, but who will now go to the gal-<br/>
lows. To seize the President and Cabinet<br/>
and hurry them into the South, was to se-<br/>
cure for the bold and successful adventurers<br/>
a lasting fame, and make them the heroes<br/>
of the war, and it is no wonder that Booth<br/>
found men ready to embrace this daring<br/>
idea. To carry out this plan a house was<br/>
rented in Washington. The cellars of this<br/>
house were transformed into secure dun-<br/>
geons, well provided with manacles, and<br/>
finally the building, it is stated, was mined,<br/>
so that if success in kidnapping was over-<br/>
turned at the last moment, the captured<br/>
party might be blown up. I can hardly<br/>
believe this last statement true; but how-<br/>
ever that may be, it is now made pretty<br/>
clear that the co-conspirators were not in-<br/>
formed that the actual murder of the Pre-<br/>
sident was contemplated until just before<br/>
the occurrence. On the night of the assas-<br/>
sination, it is said, a party of strangers sud-<br/>
denly collected about the audience door of<br/>
the theatre, and at precisely fifteen minutes<br/>
before ten, one of them called out, in a sub-<br/>
dued voice, though not in a whisper, "Nine<br/>
o'clock and forty-five minutes." This was<br/>
taken up and repeated by others stationed<br/>
at various points between the audience<br/>
door and the street. In five minutes more<br/>
the person who had first spoken said "Nine<br/>
o'clock and fifty minutes," and this was<br/>
caught up and repeated as before. At in-<br/>
tervals of five minutes the time was called<br/>
until ten minutes past ten o'clock, when<br/>
the hour having been named, the whole<br/>
party scattered, just as John Wilkes Booth<br/>
entered the President's box. In thirty<br/>
seconds Booth was riding away from the<br/>
rear of the theatre. Strange, incomprehen-<br/>
sible as this proceeding may appear, I am<br/>
informed, by one who should know the<br/>
precise truth in the matter that it did act-<br/>
ually take place. Booth's principal assist-<br/>
ant seems to have been Mrs. Surratt, a wo-<br/>
man of considerable property, formerly re-<br/>
siding on her own farm at Surrattsville,<br/>
Maryland, but more recently living at<br/>
Washington. She it was who made ar-<br/>
rangements for the reception of Booth af-<br/>
ter the murder; and to her hotel, kept by<br/>
one John Tyler, at Surrattsville, Booth and<br/>
his companion, Harrold, went for refresh-<br/>
ment and arms immediately upon the com-<br/>
mission of the deed, it being their first<br/>
stopping-place. Harrold, who was with<br/>
Booth when the latter was discovered and<br/>
shot, and who is now waiting trial at Wash-<br/>
ington, is a smooth-faced, silly boy. He<br/>
was selected as an accomplice because of<br/>
his excellent knowledge of country and to-<br/>
pography, and for his accomplishments as<br/>
a rider, boatman, and pistol shot. He com-<br/>
mitted no actual deed of blood, but his<br/>
death upon the gallows is inevitable.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_5_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Andrew Johnson's Speech on
the Fall of Richmond-—Death to
the Leading Traitors.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Upon the reception in Washington of<br/>
the news of the fall of Richmond, on the<br/>
5th inst. Vice President Johnson was<br/>
serenaded by the jubilant people, and made<br/>
a speech to them of great force and power,<br/>
in which he laid down the treatment he<br/>
conceived to be proper for the rebel leaders<br/>
and masses. In view of Mr. Lincoln's un-<br/>
timely death, and Mr. Johnson's succession<br/>
as President of the United States, the re-<br/>
marks then delivered have a double inter-<br/>
est and meaning. We reproduce the speech,<br/>
and the terms laid down in it will undoubt-<br/>
edly be the policy of the new President:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You must indulge me in making one<br/>
single remark in connection with myself.<br/>
At the time the traitors in the Senate of<br/>
the United States plotted against the Gov-<br/>
ernment and entered into a conspiracy more<br/>
execrable, and more odious than that of<br/>
Cataline against the Romans, I happened<br/>
to be a member of that body, and, as to<br/>
loyalty, stood solitary and alone among the<br/>
Senators from the Southern States.-—I<br/>
was then and there called upon to know<br/>
what I would do with such traitors, and I<br/>
want to repeat my reply. I said, if we<br/>
had an Andrew Jackson he would hang<br/>
them as high as Haman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But as he is no more, and sleeps in his<br/>
grave in his own beloved State, where<br/>
traitors and treason have even insulted his<br/>
tomb and the very earth that covers his<br/>
remains, humble as I am, when you ask me<br/>
what I would do, my reply is, I would ar-<br/>
rest them; I would try them; I would con-<br/>
vict them, and I would hang them. As<br/>
humble as I am and have been, I have<br/>
pursued but one undeviating course. All<br/>
that I have-—life, limb and property-—have<br/>
been put at the disposal of the country in<br/>
this great struggle. I have been in camp,<br/>
I have been in the field, I have been every-<br/>
where where this great rebellion was; I<br/>
have pursued it until I believe I can now<br/>
see its termination. Since the world began<br/>
there never has been a rebellion of such<br/>
gigantic proportions, so infamous in char-<br/>
acter, so diabolical in motive, so entirely<br/>
disregardful of the laws of civilized war.<br/>
It has introduced the most savage mode of<br/>
warfare ever practiced upon the earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I will repeat here a remark, for which I<br/>
have been in no small degree censured.<br/>
What is it, allow me to ask, that has sus-<br/>
tained the nation in this great struggle?<br/>
The cry has been you know, that our<br/>
Government was not strong enough for a<br/>
time of rebellion; that in such a time she<br/>
would have to contend against internal<br/>
weakness as well as internal foes. We have<br/>
now given the world evidence that such is<br/>
not the fact; and when the rebellion shall<br/>
have been crushed out, and the nation shall<br/>
once again have settled down in peace, our<br/>
Government will rest upon a more enduring<br/>
basis than ever before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But my friends, in what has the great<br/>
strength of this Government consisted!<br/>
Has it been in one-man power! Has it<br/>
been in some autocrat, or in some one<br/>
man who held absolute government! No!<br/>
I thank God I have it in my power to pro-<br/>
claim the great truth that this Government<br/>
has derived its strength from the American<br/>
people. They have issued the edict; they<br/>
have exercised the power that has resulted<br/>
in the overthrow of the rebellion, and there<br/>
is not another Government upon the face<br/>
of the earth that could have withstood the<br/>
shock. We can now congratulate ourselves<br/>
that we possess the strongest, the freest,<br/>
and the best Government the world ever<br/>
saw.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Thank God that we have lived through<br/>
this trial, and that, looking in your intel-<br/>
ligent faces here, to-day, I can announce to<br/>
you the great fact that Petersburg, the<br/>
outpost of the strong citadel, has been oc-<br/>
cupied by our brave and gallant officers,<br/>
and our untiring, invincible soldiers. And<br/>
not content with that they have captured<br/>
the citadel itself, the stronghold of the<br/>
traitors. Richmond is ours, and is now<br/>
occupied by the forces of the United States!<br/>
Death to the conspirators—clemency to<br/>
their victims. One word more, and I have<br/>
done. It is this; I am in favor of leniency;<br/>
but, in my opinion, evil-doers should be<br/>
punished. Treason is the highest crime<br/>
known in the catalogue of crimes; and for<br/>
him that in guilty of it—for him that is<br/>
willing to lift his impious hand against the<br/>
authority of the nation—I would say, death<br/>
is too easy a punishment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My notion is that treason must be made<br/>
odious, that traitors must be punished and<br/>
impoverished, their social power broken,<br/>
though they must be made to feel the pen-<br/>
alty of their crimes. Hence I say this—-<br/>
the halter to intelligent, influential traitors.<br/>
But to the honest boy, to the deluded man,<br/>
who has been deceived into the rebel ranks,<br/>
I would extend leniency. I would say,<br/>
return to your allegiance, renew your sup-<br/>
port to the Government, and become a good<br/>
citizen; but the leaders I would hang. I<br/>
hold, too, that wealthy traitors should be<br/>
made to remunerate those men who have<br/>
suffered as a consequence of their crimes.—-<br/>
Union men who have lost their property,<br/>
who have been driven from their homes,<br/>
beggars, and wanderers among strangers.<br/>
It is well to talk about things here to-day,<br/>
in addressing the well-informed persons<br/>
who compose this audience. You can, to<br/>
a very great extent, aid in moulding public<br/>
opinion, and in giving it proper direction.<br/>
Let us commence the work. We have put<br/>
down these traitors in arms; let us put<br/>
them down in law, in public judgment<br/>
and in the morals of the world."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_5_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest News.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, May 6.—-President Johnson<br/>
has issued the following proclamation:—-<br/>
"Whereas it appears from evidence in the<br/>
bureau of the Military Department that Mr.<br/>
Lincoln's murder and Mr. Seward's attempt-<br/>
ed assassination were incited, concerted,<br/>
and procured by Jefferson Davis, Jacob<br/>
Thompson, Clement C. Clay, Beverley<br/>
Tucker, George N. Sanders, W. C. Cleary,<br/>
and other rebel traitors against the United<br/>
States Government, harboured in Canada;<br/>
the following rewards for the arrest of the<br/>
said persons within the limits of the United<br/>
States are therefore offered;—-$100,000 for<br/>
Davis, $10,000 for Cleary, and $25,000<br/>
for each for the others." Cleary against<br/>
whom the Toronto grand jury found a true<br/>
bill for a breach of the neutrality laws,<br/>
has surrendered. He gave bail for $8,000<br/>
and will stand his trial at the October as-<br/>
sizes. Beverley, Tucker, and Cleary have<br/>
written letters denying positively having<br/>
had any knowledge of a plot to assassinate<br/>
or capture Lincoln and Seward. George<br/>
N. Sanders and Tucker have issued a ma-<br/>
nifesto accusing President Johnson of a<br/>
hellish plot to murder their Christian Pres-<br/>
ident. They express their readiness to<br/>
proceed to Rouse's Point or some other<br/>
place for trial if the Federal Government<br/>
will pay for their defence and guarantee<br/>
their safety. It is understood that a formal<br/>
demand has been made upon the Canadian<br/>
Government to surrender such of the as-<br/>
sassination conspirators as may be within<br/>
its jurisdiction. The Montreal Gazette<br/>
believes that Surratt, who had arrived in<br/>
Canada, had left that country. General<br/>
Ewell and several other Confederate gener-<br/>
als have addressed a letter to Grant, ex-<br/>
pressing their unqualified abhorrence and<br/>
indignation at Lincoln's murder and<br/>
Seward's attempted assassination, and de-<br/>
claring themselves to be no allies of assass-<br/>
ins, either North or South. Jefferson<br/>
Davis, Breckenridge, Benjamin, and other<br/>
Confederate leaders, escorted by 2,000<br/>
cavalry, and followed by eleven waggons,<br/>
supposed to contain treasure, reached<br/>
Yorkville, South Carolina, on the 28th.<br/>
Stoneman's cavalry arrived at the town on<br/>
the following day, Mr. Davis thus having<br/>
one day's start. Governor Aiken, of South<br/>
Carolina, and C B Lamar, of Savannah,<br/>
have arrived at Washington as prisoners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is asserted that they will be regularly<br/>
tried on the charge of treason. It is report-<br/>
ed that an agreement has been make far the<br/>
surrender of all the Confederate troops in<br/>
Florida. It is also reported that Canby<br/>
will only accept Dick Taylor's surrender<br/>
on the same terms as those accepted by<br/>
General Lee. Mosby has left Virginia,<br/>
and is endeavoring to escape to Texas.<br/>
Sherman's entire army has arrived at<br/>
Washington, and he has established his<br/>
head-quarters at Alexandria. Rosser is<br/>
stated to have been captured. Jefferson<br/>
Thompson has surrendered. An adver-<br/>
tisement is published in the Washington<br/>
papers requesting officers and soldiers<br/>
wishing to emigrate to Mexico, according<br/>
to the Mexican decree, to register their<br/>
names and address with Colonel A. J. M.<br/>
at Washington. Other offices for the same<br/>
object will be opened in all the large cities<br/>
of the Union. The New York Herald<br/>
says that a scheme is on foot to enable all<br/>
those who desire to sustain the Monroe<br/>
doctrine to do so without involving them-<br/>
selves or the Government in trouble. The<br/>
New York Herald devotes six columns to<br/>
a description of the Fenian Brotherhood,<br/>
estimating their strength in Ireland at<br/>
65,000. In connection therewith the Herald<br/>
inquires what England proposes doing in<br/>
reference to the conspirators in Canada,<br/>
and the claims for damages by privateers.<br/>
Governor Aiken is on parole at Washing-<br/>
ton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Secretary of the Treasury has re-<br/>
moved the trade restrictions in Delaware,<br/>
Indiana, Pennsylvania, and Western Vir-<br/>
ginia; and the Government is said to be<br/>
debating these restrictions in the Southern<br/>
States. The New York Chamber of Com-<br/>
merce has passed resolutions in favour of<br/>
clemency and magnanimity towards the<br/>
South. Mr. Wendell Phillips advocates a<br/>
similar policy. General Halleck has issued<br/>
an order allowing all persons, without re-<br/>
gard to rank or employment in the civil or<br/>
military service of the rebel Government,<br/>
to take the oath of allegiance and be<br/>
amnestied, receiving a corresponding certifi-<br/>
cate. Those who may be excluded from<br/>
the benefit of the oath can apply to the Ex-<br/>
ecutive for pardon. Their taking the oath<br/>
voluntarily will constitute a claim on the<br/>
clemency of the Executive. President John-<br/>
son made speech to the Pennsylvania de-<br/>
legation, reiterating that the severest pen-<br/>
alties of the law would be inflicted upon<br/>
the rebel leaders. President Lincoln's re-<br/>
mains were interred at Springfield, on the<br/>
4th inst. The Boston Advertiser says that<br/>
Booth's head and heart were removed from<br/>
his remains and deposited in the medical<br/>
museum Washington. The body was inter-<br/>
red in the felons' cemetery. Mr. Simeon<br/>
Draper has telegraphed that only 5,000 bales<br/>
of cotton have been found in Charleston,<br/>
Gold; on the morning of the 6th 143.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_6_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
(Abraham Lincoln.)
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SATURDAY, APRIL 15TH, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}There are little knots on the corners to-day,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And with bated breath they utter<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Not alone a dirge o'er th' inanimate clay,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}But avenging whispers mutter.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}There are aching hearts in the households to-night<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}There are eyes that are red with weeping,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And tender hearts,5oh not bursting quite—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the gall of despair are steeping.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}They are sobbing to-day on the old camp-ground,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And spirits undaunted by foeman,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That trembled not when the battery frowned—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Are blanched as the cheek of woman.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Comes a Nation's wail o'er her prostrate son;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For her joy has been changed to sorrow;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}She fears there's the dusk of doubt begun,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And alas! who can tell the morrow?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So pure and so great,—aye, so grandly good,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Sic Semper Tyrannis" belies him—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In his noble life ever understood,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In his death shall our millions prize him.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Tho' the head lies low, yet the body lives;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}There are heart-strings that death cannot sever<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He taketh away, but yet He gives,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the Union shall stand forever.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We are tasting to-day of the bitter cup,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Oh lesson, we heed thy warning;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We know but One who can lift us up—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Tis night—it will yet be morning<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Then bury together the present and past:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}By the quiet Potomac we'll place him.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}WASHINGTON-LINCOLN. The first and the last.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Let the tomb of Mount Vernon embrace them.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
JAMES S. THORN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Died at Singapore on 11th June, PAUL<br/>
SCHILL Esq., Merchant of Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Schill left Bangkok with the Steamer<br/>
on the 28th April, and arrived in Singapore<br/>
after five days passage rather the worse for<br/>
his voyage. He intended to have left Singa-<br/>
pore with the French Mail, but on consult-<br/>
ing the Doctor it was found that he was<br/>
too weak, so Mr. Wagner, a townsman of<br/>
Mr. S. took him to his house in the country,<br/>
when, although under the treatment of a<br/>
good Doctor, and well attended, he gradually<br/>
became worse, and died at 7 P. M. 11th<br/>
inst, he was insensible for nearly three<br/>
days previous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. had the body opened, when<br/>
the Doctor found a cancer in the stomach<br/>
and liver. Mr. Schill's remains were inter-<br/>
red at 7 P. M. 12th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_6_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To The Editor of the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—-The article published in your issue<br/>
of June 16th 1865, under the head of<br/>
"Robbery," contains statements prejudicial<br/>
to the character of Mr. Moor the Portuguese<br/>
Consul, which I feel require some explana-<br/>
tion from me in order to disabuse the pub-<br/>
lic mind as to the spirit of my expressions.<br/>
While stating that Mr Moor had not fairly<br/>
adjudicated the case and appeared to take<br/>
the part of Fonseca the defendant, I was<br/>
viewing the matter as if it had been brought<br/>
before a Siamese tribunal, when his pilfer-<br/>
ing, although not prosecuted by me in the<br/>
charge I made against him before the<br/>
Consul, yet if there had been sufficient<br/>
grounds to convince one of the fact, would<br/>
have been taken cognizance of, and he would<br/>
have been punished, as if the whole of his<br/>
delinquencies had been brought forward and<br/>
clearly proved against him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}I am Sir<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Your Obt. Servant<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}PLAINTIFF in the case of<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}N. A. da Fonseca<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Not being conversant with the proceed-<br/>
ings in European Courts of Justice, I was<br/>
betrayed into making use of expressions<br/>
detrimental to Mr. Moor's reputation for<br/>
integrity, and which I sincerely regret, the<br/>
more so, as Mr. Moor has been a friend of<br/>
mine for upwards of ten years, and has<br/>
always, won my esteem for his upright and<br/>
impartial conduct, and I should be very<br/>
sorry if my communication cast any slur on<br/>
the honor of this gentleman. I beg you<br/>
will give this letter early publication as I<br/>
am anxious to make all the "amende hon-<br/>
orable" which the matter requires.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_6_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 24th inst. a Chinaman laid in-<br/>
formation at the Police Station to the effect<br/>
that a box containing about 3000 dollars<br/>
has been stolen from the supposed wreck<br/>
of the "Fah Kee," and that he had received<br/>
the sum of 90 dollars to keep it secret.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sunday morning Mr. Ames obtained<br/>
49 dollars from a Chinese doctor living in<br/>
Sempang, into whose safe keeping they had<br/>
been placed by a participator in the robbery.<br/>
The dollars, which are quite black from<br/>
being under water so long, were handed<br/>
into H. B. M. Consulate on Monday last,<br/>
and two or more Chinamen are awaiting<br/>
their trial. One of the prisoners is a man<br/>
who was employed on board of the "Hawk"<br/>
and is called the Captain of the "Hawk"<br/>
he has been employed at the wreck by the<br/>
Salvors for some time past. We await the<br/>
trial with interest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At a meeting of American citizens held<br/>
at the Residence of F. Blake Esq. on Mon-<br/>
bay 26th inst. to take into consideration the<br/>
approaching 4th of July, it was agreed that<br/>
the American citizens will meet at the chapel<br/>
of the Presbyterian Mission at 10 o'clock<br/>
A. M. on Tuesday the 4th prox. when an<br/>
address will be delivered and other appro-<br/>
priate excercises for such an occasion will be<br/>
held. All citizens of other Nations desiring<br/>
to unite with us are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tour to the Hot Springs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 110.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being exceedingly weary we laid our-<br/>
selves down to sleep each in his own chos-<br/>
en berth quickly after dinner, having pre-<br/>
viously arranged to resume our journey at<br/>
break of day the next morning. We felt it<br/>
to be a real luxury to lie there in the open<br/>
and balmy air on our blankets without the<br/>
necessity of musqueto bars. At the close<br/>
of my last article I alluded to the great<br/>
amount of dignity we five travelers pos-<br/>
sessed in our combined professions, and<br/>
the power we consequently had to impart<br/>
a vast and lasting importance to the place<br/>
in which we had taken up our lodging.<br/>
But I cannot flatter myself that we ac-<br/>
complished much in this way, when I re-<br/>
flect what an undignified appearance we<br/>
must have made sprawling about on the<br/>
floor of the Inn, locked up in sleep, lying<br/>
heads and points and every other direction.<br/>
Why, one of our clerical fraternity, in or-<br/>
der to get rid of the ants, whose legions<br/>
came trooping over him after he had laid<br/>
down to sleep, even took to the table and<br/>
there he lay snoring lustily and thus lord-<br/>
ing it over us much of the night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Before loosing myself in sleep I over-<br/>
head our worthy host giving orders to his<br/>
servants, to kill four or five of his best<br/>
fowls, and make them ready for us by the<br/>
next morning, and that several of them<br/>
should take good care of our horses and<br/>
oxen all the night, giving as reasons the<br/>
fact that the Governor of Petchaburee had<br/>
sent such instructions, and that we were<br/>
all very weary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have omitted to mention in its pro-<br/>
per place that I had, before dinner, a con-<br/>
versation with the Karen chief on religious<br/>
topics, and was happy to learn that he had<br/>
been somewhat informed of the doings of<br/>
the Baptist missionaries among the Karens<br/>
in Burmah, and had learned several of the<br/>
elementary lessons of christianity. He<br/>
was quite intent upon having me talk to<br/>
him and his people about Christ, and to<br/>
obtain some christian tracts. I was glad<br/>
to give him a little talk on that great sub-<br/>
ject and to present him a few portions of<br/>
the Bible and other smaller tracts which<br/>
we had brought along with us. He and<br/>
his men spoke the Siamese language<br/>
about as well as their own mother tongue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
March 15th. We all arose at 3 o'clock<br/>
A. M. happy to find that our sick companion<br/>
had had a very comfortable night, and was<br/>
feeling quite well and ready to advance<br/>
to the terminus of our journey. But to<br/>
guard against another paroxysm of fever,<br/>
he took a third dose of quinine. Another<br/>
of our party began to complain sadly of<br/>
gastric derangement, so that our antici-<br/>
pated pleasures for the day were dampened<br/>
a little for a wholesome check upon our<br/>
spirits. We took a lunch and mounted<br/>
our ponies at 6 o'clock, leaving our com-<br/>
missaries with all his luggage to await there<br/>
our return in the evening. We took with us<br/>
only a small box of eatables, which the chief<br/>
arranged to have two of his servants swing<br/>
on a pole and carry for us to the Springs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had a charming ride of 10 miles or<br/>
more until 9½ A M. We rode slowly in<br/>
order to enjoy the charming scenery as<br/>
well as to accomodate ourselves to the<br/>
soreness each one had brought on himself<br/>
by the long ride of the previous day. The sun<br/>
became rather oppressive ere we reached<br/>
our destination, and made some of us regret<br/>
that we had started so late, loosing the en-<br/>
chanting moonlight and the delightful<br/>
morning breese. Our road was mainly<br/>
a cart track—passing now through a wil-<br/>
derness of bananas—now in a forest of the<br/>
most beautiful kind of bamboo called p'ai<br/>
p'ak, quite free from under brush and ar-<br/>
ranged by nature in clumps, but each tree<br/>
apparently independent of its neighbor.<br/>
Presently we were ascending a tract of<br/>
upland, occupied here by the teng rang<br/>
tree, and there by various varieties of lof-<br/>
tier trees among which the lowly Sapan<br/>
wood was quite abundant. This is strong-<br/>
ly marked by the multitude of small pro-<br/>
tuberances or warts on its bark. The tree<br/>
is uniformly small; the tallest being not<br/>
more than 20 feet high, and 6 inches in<br/>
diameter a foot from the ground. The<br/>
Karens were heard and seen here and there<br/>
chopping down Sapan trees, and preparing<br/>
them for market by shaving off the bark<br/>
from the sticks. They usually cut up the<br/>
trees by the roots leaving the bulb which<br/>
grows just beneath the ground, attached<br/>
to the sticks, as that is accounted the best<br/>
part of the tree for dying purposes. The<br/>
coloring properties of the Sapanwood are<br/>
much like that of the Logwood but not<br/>
as strong<br/>
The Karen woodmen are allowed to<br/>
cut timber where they please in all those<br/>
forests, and free of duty. The land ap-<br/>
pears to be owned only by government, the<br/>
natives being permitted to squat down and<br/>
and make little settlements in the wilder-<br/>
ness as they please. They sell their Sapan<br/>
wood chiefly to the Laocians, who come<br/>
for it with ox carts, and pay for it in rice<br/>
or other merchandise at the rate of about<br/>
one Tical per picul. The carmen take<br/>
it a journey of two days or more to Rat-<br/>
booree, about three piculs to the load, and<br/>
sell it there usually for two Ticals a picul.<br/>
Those second hand purchasers carry it to<br/>
Bangkok in large boats of 100 piculs or<br/>
more and sell it for 2½ to 3 Ticals per picul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ever and anon we emerged from a dense<br/>
forest into small clearings, some of which<br/>
were old and some new, and here and there<br/>
one with all the logs and brush ready for<br/>
a fallow burning. Some of the old clear-<br/>
ings were occupied with the Cotton plant,<br/>
the pods of which had all burst, and were<br/>
beautifully white, and apparently suffering<br/>
for the want of persons to gather it. We<br/>
clipped a few twigs from the tallest stalks<br/>
as we rode along, and found it to have a<br/>
staple that would compare well with the<br/>
best kinds of the article of the great and<br/>
most powerful family to which it belongs.<br/>
I held a sprig of the pods in my hand a<br/>
long time, being compelled, as it were, al-<br/>
most to reverence it as a representative of<br/>
a power which clothes the human race, and<br/>
has, for nearly four years, by the pride and<br/>
arrogance of man, made the world to shake<br/>
from centre to circumference.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have since been informed that those<br/>
wild Karens, having learned that Cotton<br/>
would bear a good price in market, laid<br/>
themselves out much more than usual the<br/>
last year to produce it. But that——<br/>
(not the noble P. P. whom European re-<br/>
sidents so generally know and so highly<br/>
esteem) in his great greed, sent his servants<br/>
among them, and taxed the article so heav-<br/>
ily that they became discouraged, and<br/>
abandoned their new enterprise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The latter part of our way was merely<br/>
a narrow foot path passing now over moun-<br/>
tain ridges, now down into deep and dark<br/>
glens, becoming more and more romantic<br/>
as we advanced. We crossed a deep<br/>
ravine, then mostly dry, some eight or ten<br/>
times. One of the most charming places<br/>
upon it is called Pa'p'tung, where rocks<br/>
stand up with wonderful uprightness and<br/>
grandeur, and hence the name. Near this<br/>
place is a Karen village called by the same<br/>
name. These houses are remarkable for<br/>
being built, as it were on, high and slender<br/>
stilts, with only a small ladder for an en-<br/>
trance at each, which we were told are<br/>
drawn up every night to guard against the<br/>
ingress of tigers. Their dwellings are very<br/>
slightly built, being roofed and sided with<br/>
grass. At each corner outside are two<br/>
bamboo braces standing at an angle of 45<br/>
degrees with one end in the ground, the<br/>
other made fast to the floor joice near the<br/>
corners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had frequent evidences that we were<br/>
among wild elephants and wild hogs. The<br/>
Rhinoceros lives in those woods, and a<br/>
young one was caught there not long be-<br/>
fore; but we were not so favored as to see<br/>
even the track of one. Tigers are said to<br/>
be numerous there. But we made too<br/>
much noise in passing their domains, to get<br/>
a sight of any, or of even any wild animal<br/>
excepting a few fowls and monkeys. But<br/>
the gentlemen hunters who had started<br/>
from P. all armed to the teeth for a hunt<br/>
of the most exciting and daring kind, had<br/>
very strangely forgotten to bring their<br/>
guns with them from the Karen village.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we drew near the Hot-springs we<br/>
ascended a long acclivity, and then descend-<br/>
ed into a kind of cove which was nearly<br/>
surrounded by highlands, indicating per-<br/>
haps, that it might once have been a vol-<br/>
canic crater. We found it but a sorry<br/>
place for a stay of from seven to eight<br/>
hours in a fearfully hot day; for there was<br/>
not the least sign of a human habitation, or<br/>
even a sala or shed to be seen, or any other<br/>
evidence that man had ever visited the<br/>
place. The trees about it were chiefly<br/>
small leafless bamboos. The few larger<br/>
trees had been greatly thinned of their<br/>
leaves, and it was the most difficult thing<br/>
to find one that offered us any relief what-<br/>
ever from the powerful sun which beat<br/>
terribly upon us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Weary and scorched as we were, we<br/>
sought without delay for the true sources<br/>
of the hot water, which we found every<br/>
where in the marsh. At length we found one<br/>
of the springs covered with old leaves and<br/>
logs, and among brush that defied our ap-<br/>
proach by the terrible hooks with which<br/>
they were armed. But we presently over-<br/>
came them, and cleared out one of the<br/>
springs, so that we had the great pleasure<br/>
of seeing the water literally boiling up out<br/>
of a lime stone rock as clear as crystal.<br/>
But it was remarkable that it boiled at the<br/>
temperature of 130 of Fahrenheit instead<br/>
of 212 according to the coarse of nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why, we could almost fancy that we<br/>
had come into the neighborhood of a sub-<br/>
terranean world, subject to laws of which<br/>
mankind on the outside of the shell know<br/>
nothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PUBLIC AUCTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday the 22nd. day of<br/>
July, prox. at 11. A. M. in re<br/>
Estate of C. G. ALLEN Bankrupt.<br/>
will be sold without reserve, the<br/>
undermentioned Steamers and<br/>
Barges. All and each, with their<br/>
Tackle, Apparel, and Furniture<br/>
complete, as they now stand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The paddle wheel Steamer "Fai-<br/>
ry" of 150 Tons Reg. or therea-<br/>
bouts, Length 120 feet, breadth of<br/>
beam 16 feet, depth of hold 6 feet.<br/>
Engines, double oscillating, 40<br/>
horse-power nominal; in complete<br/>
working order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also Barges No. 1 and No. 2<br/>
carrying capacity 3,000 pls each.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also will be sold the Tug Steam-<br/>
er "JACK WATERS" of 112 Tons<br/>
or thereabouts, Length 93 feet,<br/>
breadth of beam 16 feet, depth of<br/>
hold 8½ feet. Engines, propeller,<br/>
of 30 horse-power, nominal; High<br/>
pressure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also the Barges or Lighters,<br/>
"CONCHA" of 1250 piculs capacity,<br/>
"COQILLE" 1250 piculs, "D'AL-<br/>
MEIDA" 1600 piculs. "INDUSTRY"<br/>
2600 piculs, and "ENTERPRISE"<br/>
3150 piculs. All Teak built and<br/>
in good order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For Terms of sale, Inventory,<br/>
or further particulars, apply to<br/>
F. BLAKE Esq. or to the Auction-<br/>
eers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok June 28th 1865 (t. f)<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
Auctioneers.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice of Assignment.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pursuant to the provisions of the<br/>
Law made and provided for Bankrupt-<br/>
cy. Notice is hereby given that the<br/>
undersigned has been appointed Re-<br/>
ceiver to the property and Estate of<br/>
C. G. ALLEN of Bangkok, a Bankrupt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons indebted to said Estate<br/>
are hereby requested to render account,<br/>
and make payment of such indebted-<br/>
ness at the office of the undersigned<br/>
at Bangkok, on or before the first day<br/>
of July prox. and all Creditors of the<br/>
said C. G. ALLEN are requested to pre-<br/>
sent their respective accounts and de-<br/>
mands, with all necessary vouchers,<br/>
within the time above specified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons having in their pos-<br/>
session any property or effects of the<br/>
said Bankrupt or the Estate thereto<br/>
belonging are required to report and<br/>
make delivery of the same without<br/>
delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. BLAKE
Receiver in re Estate of
C. G. ALLEN Bankrupt
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok<br/>
June 13th 1865
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Towing and Lightering.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Until further notice, all orders for<br/>
Towing and Lightering with the<br/>
Steamers "Jack Waters" and "Fairy"<br/>
with the Barges, will receive attention
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_8_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 19TH TO 29TH JUNE, 1865,
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>Cases of Larceny, of clothes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do 3 Ticals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>fowls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt. 290 Ticals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do 200    ,,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slaves.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Robbery of a pistol.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do of a watch.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>fighting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do with knife and stick.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>carrying goods at unreasona-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>ble hours.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Receiving stolen money a-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">mounting to $ 90 supposed to be some of</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">the money stolen from the wreck.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_8_7 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" valign="bottom" class="r16e">
        <p class="r01"><b>PRICE CURRENT.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c6">
        <p class="r49">14<span class="s1">⅞</span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">pls</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c6">
        <p class="r49">14<span class="s1">⅛</span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c6">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c6">
        <p class="r49">8<span class="s1">⅝</span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c6">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 9¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">3 @ 4 pl. Tic. 3¼<span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span><span class="Apple-tab-span">	</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 2<span class="s1">⅞</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">7 @ 8 pl. Tic. 1<span class="s1">⅞</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Large supplies.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Scarce Tic. 11 Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 152 @ 235</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r1c7">
        <p class="r01">9 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">Horns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r1c7">
        <p class="r01">10 "</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16f">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r1c7">
        <p class="r01">12<span class="s1">⅛</span> "</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 180 @ 200.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 130 @ 150 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gambege</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 48 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 135 Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sticlac</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 13¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">No.2 Tic. 11½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Ivory</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 330 @ 370 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cardamums</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 200 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 22¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">Tic 75 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="4" valign="bottom" class="ra3">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 4 cent premium,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,<br/>
Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th<br/>
of February last, intestate, are<br/>
hereby required to send the<br/>
particulars in writing of their<br/>
claims to the undersigned the<br/>
administrator, on or before the<br/>
31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said<br/>
administrator will proceed to<br/>
distribute the estate and effects<br/>
of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having<br/>
regard only to such claims of<br/>
which he shall then have had<br/>
notice.<br/>
Dated at the British Consulate<br/>
Bangkok, Siam Mar. 14th 1856.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(s. d.) Thomas George Knox
H, B, M, Consul
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r132">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. JULY 1ST 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r126">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r133">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r134">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r135">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r136">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r137">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r138">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r133">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r137">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r135">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r136">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r139">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r138">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">848</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Princess Royal</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">3126</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">H. B. M.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Postiljon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greve</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">888</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hermsoht</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hoong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Strokes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Logger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hap Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">858</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r127">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r02"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcf">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Banhnet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">B. Van H. broek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rossum</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Enzare</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Diamond City</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lubeck</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Doesbrough</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Spanderman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Habekost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ho Kee Pek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Klindt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Castro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hawk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">162</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">May.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chosua Kwong Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gerdes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hap Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Leyser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">315</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Phya Chedock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Moon Light</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">647</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Holinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">786</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Pollux</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Blok</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">417</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Postiljon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Greve</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Leet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lunang Me Cree</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Tung Hai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">90</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Verden</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kopperman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hanover</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pulaskio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Young Jing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd0">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Young May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
