---
linkTitle: 'May 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 1st'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 8
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td>VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK MONDAY MAY 1ST 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 8</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANGKOK MAY 1st.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We can scarcely bring ourselves to real-<br/>
ize that this is the second issue of our se-<br/>
cond quarter. Time flies rapidly even with<br/>
the monotony of Bangkok. The encourag-<br/>
ment we have received in our enterprise has<br/>
surpassed our expectations, for which we re-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
turn our heartfelt thanks. We are still how-<br/>
ever a rebel, unacknowledged by the "pow-<br/>
ers that be" in the "Fourth Estate" in Siam, <br/>
and denied even the courtesy of a friendly <br/>
exchange, but although ourselves opposed <br/>
to rebellion, in this instance we are thank-<br/>
ful to the community for granting us "bel-<br/>
ligerant rights," If we have failed in any <br/>
way to fulfil our promise, we are ready to <br/>
make all due acknowledgment, and promise <br/>
in future to try and do better. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We know that it is difficult to meet the <br/>
tastes of all even in so small a community, <br/>
as this. Some like short pithy articles,—-<br/>
others like them long and prosy. Some <br/>
like business and statistics all the time,<br/>
whilst others would turn aside occasionally <br/>
from business and amuse themselves with <br/>
something rich and racy. Some desire to <br/>
know more about the country, whilst others <br/>
consider themselves sufficiently well inform-<br/>
ed upon that subject. Amidst all this <br/>
diversity of taste it is difficult to steer a <br/>
direct course. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are thankful however that we have <br/>
as yet heard no very loud complaints. We <br/>
are still ready to receive subscriptions and <br/>
advertisements. The Siamese has been <br/>
separated from the English and enlarged, <br/>
and is also open for advertisements. Auction<br/>
sales and all other advertisements will be <br/>
translated, for, and inserted in the Siamese <br/>
department on reasonable terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TUILERIES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 63.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first additions to the Tuileries as<br/>
left by Catharine de Medicis were made in<br/>
the beginning of the 17th century in the<br/>
reign of Henry IV. This king erected the<br/>
the two immense Pavillions which now form<br/>
the terminations of the Palace, North and<br/>
South. These works appear to have been<br/>
only completed under the reign of his suc-<br/>
cessor Louis XIII, and he was the first of<br/>
the French Kings who made the Tuileries<br/>
his residence. It was also in his reign that<br/>
the Tuileries was for the first time enclosed<br/>
within the city walls. Louis XIV made<br/>
several alterations and improvements in the<br/>
building. He also repaired and greatly<br/>
ornamented the interiors of the Palace,<br/>
having like his predecessors made it his<br/>
usual residence, till that of Versailles was<br/>
finished in 1702. The gallery which con-<br/>
nects the Tuileries with the Louvre was<br/>
mostly built in the reign of Henry IV, but<br/>
he left it, like many other of his great works,<br/>
in an unfinished state. The garden front of<br/>
the Truileries, heavy and incongruous as it<br/>
is, when analyzed by architectural taste,<br/>
is unrivalled as a scene of artificial beauty.<br/>
The eye ranges over broad terraces crowd-<br/>
ed with a pleasure loving population,<br/>
walls interspersed with flower gardens, and<br/>
fountains, and shady groves, where some<br/>
antique statue is encountered at every turn.<br/>
From the central pavilion the prospect is<br/>
uninterrupted for a distance of several miles,<br/>
and is terminated by the grand arch of the<br/>
Barriere de Neuilly. The Southern terrace<br/>
is bounded by the quays and the river, and<br/>
the northern by the splendid buildings of<br/>
Rue de Rivoli from which stretch the garden<br/>
is separated not by a dark wall but by a<br/>
handsome open railing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No one can fail to see that whatever the<br/>
French people may have wanted in real<br/>
political freedom, the out door pleasure of<br/>
the people have ever been abundantly con-<br/>
sulted even by their most arbitrary mon-<br/>
archs. And there can be no doubt that<br/>
it was this freedom of access to objects of<br/>
taste, and beauty, which alone made<br/>
the old regime endurable. The people in<br/>
some degree participated in the pride of<br/>
the monarch, and thus his splendor veiled his<br/>
oppression. The respect which the French<br/>
pay to the monuments of art, in which the<br/>
humblest Frenchman peasant feels a pride and<br/>
an individual honour, presents a humili-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ating contrast to the barbarous mutilations,<br/>
which some even of those who pretend to<br/>
refinement amongst Englishmen, inflict on<br/>
works of taste of which they are occasion-<br/>
ally permitted to have a glimpse by the pos-<br/>
sessors. The reason is evident. We have, un-<br/>
til late years, had so few institutions which<br/>
offer such freedom of access as the gardens<br/>
of the Tuileries and the superb gallery of<br/>
the Louvre. The people of the lower orders<br/>
have had no public property to respect, and<br/>
they are therefore deficient in that branch<br/>
of national education. Even the monuments<br/>
of our illustrious dead are closed against<br/>
them, except on the payment of contempt-<br/>
able fees, and under the watch of an igno-<br/>
rant exhibitor. This evil is being somewhat<br/>
remedied however, within the last few<br/>
years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Till the reign of Louis XIV the gardens<br/>
of the Tuileries continued to be separated<br/>
from the Palace by a street, as in the time<br/>
of Catharine de Medicis. About the year<br/>
1665 Louis committed the charge of entire-<br/>
ly remodeling the grounds to his celebrated<br/>
gardener Lenotre, and the result was its<br/>
metamorphosis into the same general ap-<br/>
pearance which it now presents. It has<br/>
since that time however undergone many<br/>
partial restorations. It had suffered con-<br/>
siderable injury during some of the turbu-<br/>
lent days of the revolution; but as early as<br/>
the end of 1796 the government, justly<br/>
proud of so magnificent an ornament of their<br/>
capital, commenced the reparation of the<br/>
damage it had sustained on the most liberal<br/>
scale; and the works were continued for<br/>
several years till the place had more than<br/>
regained its ancient splendor. After the<br/>
accession of Bonaparte to the supreme<br/>
power additions were made to its former<br/>
embellishments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gardens of the Tuileries and of Ver-<br/>
sailles have always been accounted the chief<br/>
monuments of the genius of Lenôtre, and<br/>
indeed the finest specimens in the world of<br/>
their peculiar style of disposition and em-<br/>
bellishment. Lenôtre was born to be a court<br/>
artist, or as he was called "Lejardinier<br/>
des Rois." His passion for the dignified<br/>
and grand, was both the inspiration in<br/>
which he wrought, and the coloring prin-<br/>
ciple of his ordinary thoughts and feelings.<br/>
But the grandeur which he loved and ad-<br/>
mired was that of the artificial rather than<br/>
the natural. Still he was a sincere enthu-<br/>
siast and even as courtier his heart prompt-<br/>
ed the expression of his lips. Accordingly,<br/>
in the spirit of courtly admiration and re-<br/>
verence, Lenôtre sometimes forgot the con-<br/>
ventional forms which regulate the approach<br/>
to princes. Having gone on one occasion<br/>
to visit Rome he was admitted by Pope In-<br/>
nocent XI to the honor of a special au-<br/>
dience. When about to take leave, delighted<br/>
with the reception he had received, he ex-<br/>
claimed in the pride and gratitude of his<br/>
heart; "I care not now how soon I die I<br/>
have beheld the two greatest men on earth,<br/>
your Holiness and the King, my master."<br/>
"Alas" replied the Pope, "there is a great<br/>
difference between us—the King is a great<br/>
prince renowned for many virtues—I am but<br/>
a poor priest, the servant of the servants of<br/>
God." (very different words from those of his<br/>
present Most August Holiness) "he is young<br/>
and I am old." On these words the honest<br/>
Lenotre, slapping His Holiness heavily on<br/>
the shoulder rejoined " My Reverend Father,<br/>
you are in excellent health and will live to<br/>
see all the secret college under ground."<br/>
The Pope could not restrain himself but<br/>
laughed aloud. On which Lenotre in his joy<br/>
actually threw his arms around the neck of<br/>
His Holiness and pressed him to his bosom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All his veneration for Louis himself did<br/>
not prevent him from sometimes accosting<br/>
him too, in the same cordial fashion. It is<br/>
to the credit of the "Grand Monarque"<br/>
that he bore these freedoms with great good<br/>
humor. On one occasion on his waiting<br/>
on his Royal master to detail to him the<br/>
different parts of his plan for the formation<br/>
of the Park and Garden at Versailles, Louis,<br/>
struck with admiration at the taste and<br/>
genius which the artist displayed in his con-<br/>
trivances, for surmounting the many difficul-<br/>
ties of the nature of the ground, three times<br/>
interrupted his discourse with the exclaima-<br/>
tion " Lenotre, I give you for that 20,000<br/>
francs." When this munificence however<br/>
was repeated for the fourth time, Lenotre<br/>
stopped the King, saying—"Sire, your Majes-<br/>
ty shall hear no more, I should ruin you were<br/>
I to go on." Formerly access to the gardens<br/>
of the Tuileries from the place Louis XV<br/>
was by the Pont Tournant or draw bridge,<br/>
which was constructed in 1717. Peter the<br/>
Great of Russia who was in Paris at the<br/>
time, used to take great delight, it is related,<br/>
in watching the progress of the men em-<br/>
ployed in constructing this bridge. The<br/>
ditch or moat over which it afforded a<br/>
passage still remains, but since the re-<br/>
volution, a stone bridge has been substituted<br/>
for the Pont Tournant. The old bridge is<br/>
famous in the revolution of 1879. The most<br/>
interesting and important associations in the<br/>
History of France are connected with that<br/>
wonderful series of events which effected an<br/>
entire change in the destinies of nations<br/>
and the general aspect of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICAN GENERALS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 68)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. H. W. Halleck was another of<br/>
General Scott's favorites, and upon the<br/>
death of Gen. Lyon in Missouri, who bid<br/>
fair to be a star of the first magnitude, and<br/>
the failure of Freemont, Halleck was sent<br/>
to take command of that department. He<br/>
did up his work well, was present in per-<br/>
son at the seige of Corinth and forced<br/>
Beauregard to evacuate that place without<br/>
a battle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When President Lincoln discovered that<br/>
he and Secretary Stanton were not the<br/>
men to direct the operations of the armies,<br/>
upon the recommendation of Scott, Hal-<br/>
leck was called to Washington and made<br/>
General-in-chief. He soon proved however,<br/>
that he was not pre-eminently qualified for<br/>
the position. He carried out the old boa-<br/>
constrictor plan recommended by Scott, of<br/>
engirdling the rebellion and choking it to<br/>
death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His first act was to recall McClellan from<br/>
the Peninsula, against which the latter pro-<br/>
tested, and the correspondence between<br/>
them clearly proves that if McClellan was<br/>
not equal to his superior as a strategist, he<br/>
certainly was far ahead of him in a literary<br/>
point of view.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His second act was to place his favorite<br/>
John Pope in command in Virginia, who<br/>
did two remarkable things, viz, he issued to<br/>
the army a most ridiculous address in which<br/>
he discarded all “lines of retreat,” and in<br/>
a few weeks he destroyed a fine army.<br/>
When Congress revived the old rank of<br/>
Lieutenant General, and conferred that honor<br/>
upon Grant, Halleck was naturally cast in-<br/>
to the shade, and now holds the merely<br/>
ornamental title of chief of the President’s<br/>
staff.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Freemont had acquired quite a reputa-<br/>
tion as an explorer, and “path-finder” in the<br/>
west. He was also a rabid abolitionist. He<br/>
was brought forward in 1856 by the Re-<br/>
publican party, then in its infancy, as a<br/>
candidate for the Presidency. He was de-<br/>
feated by Buchanan, although he ran a<br/>
higher ticket than was generally anticipated<br/>
by his friends. When the rebellion broke<br/>
out he was in Europe, but he hastened<br/>
home, and offered his services to the gov-<br/>
ernment. His services were accepted by<br/>
the government, but on account of his pre-<br/>
vious influence, they at once foolishly rais-<br/>
ed him to the rank of Major General in the<br/>
regular army. After the death of Lyon,<br/>
Freemont was sent to the department of the<br/>
Missouri, where he spent a long time in<br/>
making vast preparations. A personal feud<br/>
existing between him and General Frank<br/>
P. Blair, he was arraigned by Blair in<br/>
Washington as incompetent, and was soon<br/>
afterwards superseded by Halleck. He was<br/>
afterwards cleared by a court martial and<br/>
was soon after entrusted with another com-<br/>
mand in Virginia. He was the first of our<br/>
Generals who succeeded in first attacking<br/>
General Stonewall Jackson which he did,<br/>
but was obliged to come off second best<br/>
in the engagement. His department was<br/>
afterwards enlarged and the whole com-<br/>
mand given to Gen. Banks. Freemont hol-<br/>
ing a higher rank than Banks would not<br/>
be under him and consequently retired.<br/>
This ended his military career. It almost<br/>
certain that he has not the comprehen-<br/>
siveness necessary to constitute a successful<br/>
general, but it is to be regretted that the<br/>
government did not give him a better op-<br/>
portunity of showing what he could do. <br/>
Through hatred for Mr. Lincoln he accepted<br/>
the nomination of the ultra abolition party<br/>
for president in 1864, but for the sake of<br/>
the country he wisely withdrew before the<br/>
election
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The efficiency of the army of the Potom-<br/>
ac was for a time very much crippled by the<br/>
constant changing of its commanders. Af-<br/>
ter the removal of McClellan, Burnside was<br/>
appointed to command the army. Accord-<br/>
ing to reports he had refused the command<br/>
once before, when the army was about to<br/>
follow Lee into Maryland. Obeying the<br/>
commands of his superior General Halleck,<br/>
he rapidly followed Lee into Virginia, but<br/>
soon met a severe reverse at Fredericksburg<br/>
He lacked confidence in himself, for so<br/>
large a command, and frankly acknowled-<br/>
ged it. Through jealousy too, or some<br/>
other motive some of his subordinates<br/>
manifested a lack of confidence in him. Af-<br/>
ter Fredericksburg he resiged the com-<br/>
mand. His previous career in North<br/>
Carolina was brilliant, and so was his sub-<br/>
sequent career in East Tenessee. With a<br/>
small army or a subordinate command he<br/>
is doubtless a model general, but acknow-<br/>
ledges his inability for a large command.<br/>
The country has had few more faithful ser-<br/>
vants than A. E. Burnside.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hooker who had been most clamorous<br/>
against Burnside for incompetency, was<br/>
next elevated to the command. He manoeu-<br/>
vered around during the winter and upon the<br/>
opening of the spring campaign met the<br/>
rebels at Chancelorville. The only benefit<br/>
to the government resulting from that bat-<br/>
tle was the killing of General Stonewall<br/>
Jackson, than whom, Gen. Lee said, he<br/>
would rather have lost a regiment. After<br/>
allowing Lee to run around him and invade<br/>
Maryland and Pennsylvania, Hooker saw<br/>
that he had the confidence neither of the<br/>
army nor the people and he resigned. He<br/>
is undoubtedly a fighter, and as a division<br/>
commander has probably no superior in<br/>
the army. He however is somewhat of a<br/>
braggodocio, and has not the calibre for<br/>
a large command. He was afterwards<br/>
sent to Chatanooga under Grant where he<br/>
did excellent service. His driving the re-<br/>
bels from Lookout Mountain is one of the<br/>
most daring affairs of the war. When Mc-<br/>
Pherson was killed Howard was raised to<br/>
the command of the army of Tennessee at<br/>
which Hooker seemed to be displeased and<br/>
resigned his command. He is now in com-<br/>
mand at Cincinnati, which is virtually being<br/>
laid upon the shelf. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After Hooker resigned Gen. George G.<br/>
Meade who was in command of one of the<br/>
divisions of the army was promoted to the<br/>
command. Four days after his appoint-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ment he met Lee's victorious and invading<br/>
army at Gettysburg, and after three days<br/>
hard fighting gained a signal victory.<br/>
Meade has few superiors any where as a<br/>
field commander, and is still in command<br/>
of the army of the Potomac, but by the<br/>
constant presence of Grant he is thrown<br/>
somewhat into the shade.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHIENG MAI TRIP
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 66)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lampoon is the last city before reaching<br/>
Chieng-Mai. We called soon after our ar-<br/>
rival on the Palat, who made known our<br/>
arrival to the Governor and procured an<br/>
interview for us. He received us very<br/>
cordially with all of his P'ayas and officers<br/>
as low before him as if he were King of<br/>
Siam, or sovereign of all the Indies. He<br/>
is, by the way, a man of as much stamina<br/>
of character about him, as any that I have<br/>
met among the Eastern officials. He is about<br/>
the ordinary height with prominent features.<br/>
There is an air of authority about him that<br/>
seems to be natural, without rendering him<br/>
haughty or ridiculous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were put through the ordinary rout-<br/>
ine of questions as to our errand to Chieng-<br/>
Mai, as well as all about the outside coun-<br/>
try. We had before asked the Palat, as a<br/>
special favor, to assist us in getting off the<br/>
next morning. To him it seemed simply<br/>
impossible to hunt up the elephants and<br/>
make the necessary preparations. Before<br/>
leaving the Governor's we made the same<br/>
request, supported by the argument that<br/>
one of our number was suffering under a<br/>
little indisposition, which rendered it desire-<br/>
able that we should hasten to our journey's<br/>
end. He told us yes, that he would be<br/>
happy to have us spend several days there,<br/>
but if we urged it there would be no dif-<br/>
ficulty, and spoke to P'aya Sanam to have<br/>
all in readiness. He began to hesitate a<br/>
little that the time was short to hunt up<br/>
the elephants. "Why not" said the Gover-<br/>
nor with an air of authority that left no<br/>
room for reply, "how many elephants have<br/>
you of your own?" "Seven" was the reply,<br/>
"Well then they only need four, have them<br/>
off punctually in the morning without fail."<br/>
There was no appeal, and he left immedi-<br/>
ately to make preparation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lampoon is smaller in size than Lakawn<br/>
having a population estimated at about ten<br/>
thousand. Its walls are circular instead of<br/>
square; we walked round them before<br/>
breakfast. I think the whole circuit can-<br/>
not be more than two and a half or three<br/>
miles. We paid a hurried visit to the<br/>
market also, the first regular one that we<br/>
had met after leaving Bangkok. Our men<br/>
thought it was fine to get to a market town<br/>
again. That, with a short visit to wat<br/>
Hluang, was about all that we could do in,<br/>
stop at this city. Its tall spire shaped<br/>
not unlike wat Chaang at Bangkok, presen-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ted a find appearance as it glistened in the<br/>
sun at a distance. It is a very fine wat,<br/>
though, as is often the case, the workman-<br/>
ship does not bear close inspection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After breakfast our elephants were in<br/>
readiness, and we were off in fine spirits<br/>
on our last day's ride to the Laos capital.<br/>
For the rest of the journey, and also for a<br/>
detailed description of the place itself, I<br/>
must refer to the published account of "a<br/>
visit to Xiengmai, the principal city of the<br/>
Laos, or Shan states—By Sir Robert H.<br/>
Schomburgh. &c. &c." which most of your<br/>
Bangkok readers have doubtless seen. I did<br/>
not see it till after our return, but have found<br/>
it substantially correct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our road in the morning was through<br/>
one of the largest and finest rice fields<br/>
I ever saw. It is several miles across it,<br/>
extending in some places nearly as far as<br/>
the eye can reach. The people were then<br/>
all engaged in gathering in a bountiful<br/>
harvest. Our road lay most of the way a-<br/>
long the Ping fork, as the prefix quaa<br/>
implies, and along a large canal dug for<br/>
the purpose of irrigating the plain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The walls of Chieng Mai did not appear<br/>
till near sunset, and we had still to cross a<br/>
wide plain of rice fields, so that it was near-<br/>
ly dark when we arrived at the royal sala.<br/>
It was to late for our arrival to be known<br/>
that night; but before breakfast in the<br/>
morning we were visited by one or two of<br/>
the head men of the city, to ascertain who<br/>
we were, and what our errand was, and to<br/>
invite us to visit Chow Rat-bokee, who was<br/>
left in supreme command while the prince<br/>
was on a visit to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we met two other messengers on our<br/>
way, we hardly knew whether to be flat-<br/>
tered at the honor paid us, or alarmed at<br/>
their suspicions. But whatever fears we<br/>
might have had were allayed by the kind<br/>
reception given us. We had met some of<br/>
the head men before, and the prince him-<br/>
self at Bangkok, which served for an in-<br/>
troduction, and the announcement that we<br/>
were missionaries, was a guarantee even in<br/>
that distant province that our mission was<br/>
a peaceful one. Our reception and whole<br/>
treatment while there was about all that we<br/>
could have asked. It was probably better<br/>
than it would have been, had not the diffi-<br/>
culty mentioned in the narrative referred<br/>
to above, compelled some of those in<br/>
authority there, to make a visit to Bangkok<br/>
which caused them considerable trouble.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chow Rat-bokee was absent in the coun-<br/>
try most of the time while we were there,<br/>
so that we saw but little of him afterwards.<br/>
But there seemed to be a general determina-<br/>
tion that no difficulty should be allowed<br/>
to grow out of our visit. The princes'<br/>
head-wife sent a man every morning to see<br/>
if all our wants were supplied, and his<br/>
daughter with a large train of attendants<br/>
made us a call, in the mother's name, bring-<br/>
ing us presents of various kinds, and P'aya<br/>
Sa-yám who was intrusted with seeing our<br/>
wants supplied was very attentive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No hindrance whatever was placed in<br/>
our visiting the city or talking to the peo-<br/>
ple. Owing to some little sickness, occa-<br/>
sioned by our long trip and change of<br/>
water, we could not avail ourselves as fully<br/>
of this privilege as we desired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For regularity of plan and neatness of<br/>
the streets, and good order and respectful<br/>
behavior of the people, I have seen no<br/>
place in Siam that can compare with it,<br/>
while its aqueduct supplying the whole city<br/>
with water at their doors, brought from a<br/>
mountain two or three miles distant, might<br/>
indicate even a higher degree of civilization<br/>
than it can claim.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The market which is a very large one is<br/>
as neat and as orderly as any to be found<br/>
in any country. It is open in the morning<br/>
till about nine o'clock, and before day<br/>
break you could hear the stir of preparation<br/>
for it. The bridge near which our sala was<br/>
situated, poured forth a constant stream of<br/>
both buyers and sellers, all wending their<br/>
way with eager steps towards it. Our first<br/>
morning there, we almost involuntarily fell<br/>
into the crowd to see where such a mass<br/>
of people were going. It led us within the<br/>
city walls and soon the market appeared.<br/>
It is kept entirely by women, who seat them-<br/>
selves on the ground, with vegetables, and<br/>
fruit, and Laos confectionaries, deposited on<br/>
one of natures simple stalls, in the form of a<br/>
large plantain leaf or in little baskets made<br/>
by themselves, before them. While not<br/>
trading, they work away on their embroid-<br/>
ery which is used for their clothing and<br/>
pillows, and matresses. They use but few<br/>
words in buying and selling, very unlike<br/>
the Siamese, who expect to fall one fourth,<br/>
or one half from the price they ask. It<br/>
seemed strange to us to see salt used as<br/>
the currency or circulating medium of the<br/>
market. So seldom is money used that we<br/>
found that the owners of the articles, often<br/>
had no idea of the price of their own goods<br/>
in money, while they could readily answer<br/>
if they were asked how they would laak,<br/>
it, or how much salt they would take for<br/>
it. This arises from its distance from<br/>
Bangkok, and the rapids in the river, rend-<br/>
ering the importance of such a heavy, and<br/>
essential article as salt very expensive. The<br/>
next greatest want in the estimation of the<br/>
Siamese is fish. Though pork and fowls<br/>
should be ever so abundant and cheap, they<br/>
cannot understand how there can be good<br/>
living without fish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What strikes one as most novel, and<br/>
peculiarly Laos too in this part of Asia, is<br/>
the immense number of elephants and<br/>
droves of oxen referred to in a former letter.<br/>
Besides the oxen we see hundreds of ele-<br/>
phants daily, in droves from two to thirty<br/>
or forty. When the prince goes off, he is<br/>
accompanied by a train of two or three<br/>
hundred. The thorough manner in which<br/>
they go to work to break in the young ones<br/>
is remarkable. They afford about as good<br/>
a specimen of the rigid school of family<br/>
discipline as could be found. I have seen<br/>
the feet tied in pairs and the body suspen-<br/>
ded by two large ropes to a beam above, so<br/>
that his feet just touches the ground, while<br/>
the poor animal was most unmercifully<br/>
speared and pounded, till he was covered<br/>
with blood and scars. He is then let down<br/>
and if he is not thoroughly subdued, he is<br/>
returned to his place and the process re-<br/>
peated. But when his lesson is once learn-<br/>
ed it is learned well, and he becomes as<br/>
submissive as he is intelligent. One might<br/>
almost suppose that the people are put<br/>
through a similar process of training, for they<br/>
are certainly very civil. The laws are very<br/>
rigid as theft is a capital crime. But while<br/>
the people respected their prince they did<br/>
not speak of him as tyrannical. Any de-<br/>
tailed account of the dress and manners and<br/>
customs of the people, would be an old stale<br/>
subject, which no one would care to have<br/>
repeated. But the scenery on the river<br/>
thence to Ra-haáng on our return route, was<br/>
entirely new to foreigners, and almost un-<br/>
surpassed for beauty, with a short notice of<br/>
which some other time, I will close.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours &c. D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LETTERS FROM GEN. LEE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. Y. Observer.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following letters from Gen. Lee,<br/>
written soon after the outbreak of the Rebel-<br/>
lion, have just been made public:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Arlington, Va., April 20, 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General:—-Since my interview with you<br/>
on the 18th inst, I have felt that I ought<br/>
not longer to retain my commission in the<br/>
army. I, therefore, tender my resignation,<br/>
which I request you will recommend for<br/>
acceptance. It would have been presented<br/>
at once, but for the struggle it has cost me<br/>
to separate myself from a service to which<br/>
I have devoted all the best years of my life<br/>
and all the ability I possessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the whole of that time-—more<br/>
than a quarter of a century—-I have exper-<br/>
ienced nothing but kindness from my super-<br/>
iors, and the most cordial friendship from<br/>
my comrades. To no one, General, have<br/>
I been as much indebted as to yourself for<br/>
uniform kindness and consideration, and it<br/>
has always been my ardent desire to merit<br/>
your approbation. I shall carry to the grave<br/>
the most grateful recollections of your kind<br/>
consideration, and your name and fame will<br/>
always be dear to me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Save in defence of my native State, I<br/>
never desire again to draw my sword. Be<br/>
pleased to accept my most earnest wishes<br/>
for the continuance of your happiness and<br/>
prosperity, and believe me, most truly<br/>
yours,        
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
R. E. Lee.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Lieut.-Gen. Winfield Scott, Commanding<br/>
United States Army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A copy of the foregoing letter was in-<br/>
closed in the following letter to a sister of<br/>
the General's, Miss A. M.:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Arlington, Va., April 20, 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My Dear sister:—I am grieved at my<br/>
inability to see you. * * * I have been<br/>
waiting "for a more convenient season,"<br/>
which has brought to many before me, deep<br/>
and lasting regret, Now we are in a state<br/>
of war which will yield to nothing. The<br/>
whole South is in a state of revolution, in-<br/>
to which Virginia, after a long struggle,<br/>
has been drawn, and though I recognize<br/>
no necessity for this state of things, and<br/>
would have forborne, and pleaded to the<br/>
end for redress of grievances, real or sup-<br/>
posed, yet in my own person I had to meet<br/>
the question, whether I should take part<br/>
against my native State. With all my<br/>
devotion to the Union, and the feeling of<br/>
loyalty and duty of an American citizen,<br/>
I have not been able to make up my mind<br/>
to raise my hand against my relatives, my<br/>
children, my home. I have, therefore, re-<br/>
signed my commission in the army, and,<br/>
save in defence of my native State, with<br/>
the sincere hope that my poor services may<br/>
never be needed, I hope I may never be<br/>
called on to draw my sword.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I know you will blame me, but you must<br/>
think as kindly of me as you can, and be-<br/>
lieve that I have endeavored to do what I<br/>
thought right. To show you the feeling<br/>
and struggle it has cost me, I send a copy<br/>
of my letter to Gen. Scott, which accom-<br/>
panied my letter of resignation. I have no<br/>
time for more. * * * May God guard<br/>
and protect you and yours, and shower<br/>
upon you every blessing, is the prayer of<br/>
your devoted brother, 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
R E Lee.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A NEW TREATY. 
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between the King of Siam, and the<br/>
Emperor of the French, translated from <br/>
a Siamese copy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An agreement to articles of a Treaty<br/>
made by Chow-Phya-Sri-Sooriwongs, Prime<br/>
Minister, in the name of Prabat Somdet<br/>
Pra Chow King of Siam on the one part,<br/>
and Monsieur Aubaret Consul of the French,<br/>
Officer of the Legion of Honor &c,-—in the<br/>
name of H. I. M. Napoleon Emperor of the<br/>
French on the other part.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese government on the one<br/>
part, and the French government on the<br/>
other part, do hereby mutually agree and<br/>
determine, how the Cambodian affair touch-<br/>
ing the Treaty with the French, which was<br/>
made on the 27th July of the 8th moon,<br/>
Siamese civil era, corresponding with the<br/>
Christian era 11th August, 1863, shall be<br/>
arranged and settled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From this time forward the two govern-<br/>
ments aforesaid, are mutually agreed to re-<br/>
scind that which causes trouble and embar-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
rassment in the working of the existing<br/>
Treaty of amity, and friendship between the<br/>
two parties. Hence the two governments<br/>
do hereby agree and settle upon the adop-<br/>
tion of the seven following articles:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE I. Prabat-Somdet-Pra-Chow<br/>
King of Siam, consents to make public the<br/>
agreement of the Emperor of the French<br/>
for the protection of the kingdom of Cam-<br/>
bodia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE II. The Treaty which the gov-<br/>
ernment of Siam made with the government<br/>
of Cambodia, in the month of December<br/>
1863 cannot [henceforth] be used, and must<br/>
be accounted vain and nugatory. As re-<br/>
gards the Siamese, they shall not be allow-<br/>
ed to put into force any article of that<br/>
Treaty whatsoever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE III. The Emperor of the<br/>
French is willing that the kingdom of Cam-<br/>
bodia shall have Sovereign power within<br/>
itself, being Independent of, and unan-<br/>
nexed to any other power. Consequently<br/>
the Emperor of the French doth hereby<br/>
engage that he will not take any part of<br/>
the kingdom of Cambodia and annex it to<br/>
his possessions in Cochin China.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE IV. The boundary lines of<br/>
the Provinces of Battambong, Nak'awn-<br/>
Siam - ap, together with the Laos provinces<br/>
belonging to Siam, bordering on the king-<br/>
dom of Cambodia, the French agree shall<br/>
remain as they are at the present time sup-<br/>
posed to be fixed. The Cambodians shall<br/>
not cross over and commit trespass in any<br/>
of these provinces of the Siamese, nor shall<br/>
the Siamese go over and commit trespass<br/>
within the borders of the Cambodians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to the boundary lines between Siam<br/>
and Cambodia, the Siamese and Cambo-<br/>
dian governments, shall each send her offic-<br/>
ers to survey and mark the lines anew, as<br/>
they are at the present time understood to<br/>
be fixed. And there shall be men appointed<br/>
by the French government to go and wit-<br/>
ness such surveys.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE V. The kingdom of Cambo-<br/>
dia must remain a Sovereign and Indepen-<br/>
dent State unannexed to any other. She<br/>
shall be a kingdom between the French on<br/>
the one hand, and the Siamese on the oth-<br/>
er. But in consequence of an old cus-<br/>
tom now existing, the king of Cambo-<br/>
dia shall continue to send his ambassador<br/>
to pay his respects [from time to time] to<br/>
the king of Siam, and he shall also send<br/>
such ambassadors to pay his respects [oc-<br/>
casionally] to the Emperor of the French.<br/>
This shall be considered simply as a becom-<br/>
ing respect paid to said governments, and<br/>
not at all with any evil intent or influence<br/>
against the Independence and Sovereignty<br/>
of Cambodia. Should the king of Cambo-<br/>
dia send presents to the king of Siam,<br/>
as he has been accustomed to do and the<br/>
Siamese and the Cambodians continue to<br/>
have intimate and friendly intercourse, this<br/>
the French government will not forbid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE VI. The king of Cambodia<br/>
having been accustomed to reside [at times]<br/>
in Siam, the French government will not<br/>
interfere with the continuance of that cus-<br/>
tom. And on the other hand if the king<br/>
of Cambodia shall wish to go and reside<br/>
[a while] in France, the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment will interpose no obstacle to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE. VII. The French government<br/>
agree to require the Cambodians to observe<br/>
every one of the above articles, and has<br/>
caused them to be written in the Siamese<br/>
and the French languages—both copies be-<br/>
ing of the same tenor and date.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This Treaty was signed and sealed, both<br/>
the Siamese and the French copies, at Bang-<br/>
kok on Friday the 5th month and 4th day<br/>
of the waning moon corresponding with<br/>
April 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Military operations have resumed their<br/>
former prominence in the news from the<br/>
Federal States, and the whole interest turns<br/>
upon strategic movements, reconnaissance,<br/>
reinforcements, and expected battles. Dur-<br/>
ing the 10 days preceding the 8th of Feb.<br/>
the armies under Sherman and Grant had<br/>
received important accessions of strength<br/>
from those of the West, especially from<br/>
that under Thomas. General Grant’s army<br/>
appears to be no longer mud-bound, for a<br/>
forward movement against Lee’s right was<br/>
announced. On the morning of the 5th<br/>
of February the 5th corps, preceded by<br/>
Gregg’s cavalry moved towards Reams<br/>
Station, encountering cavalry on the road,<br/>
who retreated before the Federal advance.<br/>
At noon they reached Rownty Creek, over<br/>
which they constructed a bridge. The 3rd<br/>
Pennsylvanian cavalry were then sent out<br/>
to make a connection with the 2nd corps,<br/>
two divisions of which had gone out on the<br/>
Vaughn Road as far as Hatcher’s Run, to<br/>
demonstrate in that direction. On reach-<br/>
They advanced a mile across the Run,<br/>
driving the Confederate pickets before<br/>
them. Here the Federals erected a strong<br/>
line of breastworks, making their position<br/>
perfectly secure, and the connection be-<br/>
tween both corps was afterwards formed.<br/>
The second division of the 2nd corps, be-<br/>
fore reaching Hatcher’s Run, turned to the<br/>
right, and advancing in a north-westerly<br/>
direction, found the enemy in a strong<br/>
position in the vicinity. The Federals<br/>
having thrown up a line of breastworks,<br/>
the Confederates made several charges, and<br/>
attempted to break through them, but were<br/>
repulsed. The Federals captured a large<br/>
commissariat train. Their loss was about<br/>
100 men. On the following morning, the<br/>
6th, the third division of the 5th corps ad-<br/>
vanced along the road leading from Duncan-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
road towards Boydton Plank Road, driving<br/>
the Confederates from their breastworks at<br/>
Dabney's Mills. In the afternoon the Con-<br/>
federates made a determined attack along<br/>
the whole line, expecting to break through<br/>
or cut off the third division. Simultaneous-<br/>
ly they made an attack in front, and part<br/>
of the third division, being cut off from<br/>
communication, gave way and retreated in<br/>
disorder to the breastworks erected by the<br/>
2nd corps. Part of the third division of<br/>
the 6th corps, which had just crossed Hat-<br/>
cher's Run, and become demoralized, were<br/>
rallied, and assisted in driving the enemy<br/>
back. The Federals, during the retreat,<br/>
abandoned two artillery waggons. Shortly<br/>
afterwards the Confederates attacked the<br/>
left of the 2nd corps near Armstrong House,<br/>
on Duncan Road, but were repulsed with<br/>
loss. The Federals lost on Sunday and<br/>
Monday, the 5th and 6th, 1180 men. On<br/>
Tuesday, the 7th, they occupied the ground<br/>
lost on the previous day. Grant's permenent<br/>
lines extended from what was formerly the<br/>
extreme left at Fort Cummings, or Squir-<br/>
rel Level-road, to across Hatcher's Run, at<br/>
Armstrong Mills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Lee's report states that on Sun-<br/>
day, the 5th, the Federals moved a strong<br/>
force to Hatcher's Run, Part of his infantry<br/>
crossed and proceeded to Cattail Creek,<br/>
and the cavalry to Dinwiddie Courthouse,<br/>
where they encountered the Confederate<br/>
cavalry and retired. In the afternoon Hall's<br/>
and Gordou's troops demonstrated against<br/>
the Federals on the left of Hatcher's Run,<br/>
near Armstrong Mills, but finding them<br/>
entrenched, withdrew during the night.<br/>
The force which advanced beyond the<br/>
Creek was reported recrossing. On Mon-<br/>
day morning, the 6th, Pegram's division<br/>
moved to the right bank of the Creek to<br/>
reconnoitre, when it was vigorously attack-<br/>
ed by the Federals. The battle was ob-<br/>
stinately contested for several hours; but<br/>
Pegram being killed, and Colonel Hofman<br/>
wounded, some confusion occurred, and<br/>
the division was pressed back to its original<br/>
position. Van's division was ordered to<br/>
support Pegram's, and charged the Federals,<br/>
forcing them back, but was in turn compel-<br/>
led to retire. Mahoney's division then<br/>
arrived, and drove the Federals rapidly to<br/>
their defences at Hatcher's Run. The Con-<br/>
federate loss is small, and the enemy's loss<br/>
is not supposed to be great.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sheridan's cavalry had defeated a detach-<br/>
ment of Confederate cavalry at Moorfield,<br/>
Virginia, capturing 20 prisoners, including<br/>
Major Harry Gilmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing direct had been received from<br/>
General Sherman down to the 11th of Feb.<br/>
The progress of his movements into the<br/>
interior of South Carolina was furnished by<br/>
Confederate telegrams. They state that on<br/>
the 1st of February the advance of what<br/>
was supposed to be a heavy force of Federal<br/>
troops reached Whippy Swamp, a point<br/>
within 30 miles of Branchville, where the<br/>
Confederate cavalry were driven in. A<br/>
column of Sherman’s cavalry was said<br/>
to be moving rapidly on the Augusta roal,<br/>
upon some unknown point. The Confeder-<br/>
ates were confident Sherman was moving<br/>
on Branchville. Heavy skirmishing within<br/>
20 to 30 miles of Charleston is reported,<br/>
and it was said that the Federals came up<br/>
to Young’s Island in barges on the 1st of<br/>
February. landed, drove in the pickets,<br/>
and fired a number of buildings on the<br/>
plantations. Three steamers were reported<br/>
off White’s Point, on the Combabee River,<br/>
on the same day, with troops, who were<br/>
making attempts to land. A report pre<br/>
vailed at Richmond that Sherman had effect<br/>
ed a lodgement on the railroad between<br/>
Branchville and Augusta. The only thing<br/>
confirmatory of this report was that the<br/>
telegraphic communication with Augusta<br/>
was interrupted. There were also rumours<br/>
that Branchville had been flanked and cap<br/>
tured, growing out of the receipt of news<br/>
by the War Department that the Confeder-<br/>
ate advance guard under M'Law had fallen<br/>
back within 30 miles of Branchville through<br/>
fear of being enveloped by the Federal’s<br/>
advance. Augusta papers report two corps<br/>
of Sherman’s army to be on the Georgia<br/>
side of the Savannah River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Beauregard had assumed the<br/>
command of the forces at Augusta, where<br/>
be declared that be would fight to the bitter<br/>
end, and if he failed he could pay his<br/>
passage to a foreign country,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hood’s army is said to be at St. John.<br/>
One of his army corps is reported to have<br/>
left for South Carolina. A large Confeder-<br/>
ate force is reported on the Arkansas side<br/>
of the Mississippi, near Mound City, per<br/>
paring to cross into Tennessee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Important intelligence, of the dates of the<br/>
14th, 15th, 16th, and 17th Feb., has been<br/>
brought by the mail steamer Africa, which<br/>
arrived at Queenstown this morning at 2.30.<br/>
She brought 68 passengers and £7981 in<br/>
specie. She had been detained one day off<br/>
Halifax by a fog.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sherman has crossed the Whippy Swamp,<br/>
towards the South Carolina railroad, and,<br/>
after a successful engagement, seized Mc<br/>
bride’s Bridge, and crossed the north fork<br/>
of the Saltkehatchie, the cavalry at the same<br/>
time occupying Blackville and the stations<br/>
between Branchville and Augusta. A move-<br/>
ment beyond Branchville was repulsed<br/>
by Slocum, who was within four miles of<br/>
miles of Branchville, which was invested on<br/>
[tril] west and north. Sherman is subsequent-<br/>
ly slated to have flanked Branchville, and<br/>
cut off all railroad communication. He had<br/>
also landed in part of his force on James'<br/>
River, two miles south-west of Charleston,<br/>
The Confederals General Hardee reports on<br/>
the 13th February that the Federals had<br/>
driven in his pickets on James' Island, but<br/>
that he had afterwards re-established his<br/>
position. It appears, however, by subse-<br/>
quent advices, that the Confederates had<br/>
retreated, and it was reported that Branch-<br/>
ville had been evacuated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are rather contradicting accounts re-<br/>
specting Charleston; but it appears proba-<br/>
ble that the Federals had completely isolat-<br/>
ed that city, and severed the last line of<br/>
communication between Virginia and the<br/>
South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Grant still holds his position, and has ad-<br/>
ded three miles in his line of works. In<br/>
the late engagement the Confederates lost<br/>
500, and the Federals from 1500. Grant<br/>
has visited Washington and held conferen-<br/>
ces with the President and Secretary of<br/>
War, in reference, it is believed, to import-<br/>
ant military movements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lee was removing his artillery to the<br/>
north side of the James' in front of the<br/>
Federal works. The 'Herald' concludes<br/>
therefrom that Lee is preparing to evacuate<br/>
Richmond.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The reported evacuation of Mobile is<br/>
confirmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A movement has been made on Wilming-<br/>
ton. The Confederates were driven into<br/>
the main works, and the Federals, pressing<br/>
forward, captured the rifle pits. The Fed-<br/>
erals lost 70 men and captured 100 prison-<br/>
ers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace resolutions had been introduced<br/>
into the Federal House of Representatives,<br/>
but were defeated by a majority of 73 a-<br/>
gainst 43. Mr. Fessenden has proposed a<br/>
loan of 600,000,000 of dollars. On the 1st<br/>
of February the public debt was 2,153,000,-<br/>
000 dollars, and the interest 93,130,000.<br/>
The question of a general export duty is<br/>
being agitated in Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Herald' asserts that the Confed-<br/>
erate Commissioners proposed to Mr. Lin-<br/>
coln at the late conference the union of the<br/>
Northern and Southern armies for the en-<br/>
forcement of the Monroe doctrine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A resolution has been introduced in the<br/>
Confederate House of Representatives di-<br/>
recting the President to accept from slave-<br/>
owners the services of negroes during the<br/>
war to perform military service. Nothing<br/>
in this act shall authorise any change in<br/>
the relation of slaves to their owners as<br/>
property, except by the consent of the<br/>
States where they reside, or by the laws<br/>
of those States. The House refused to<br/>
reject or postpone the consideration of the<br/>
bill and indefinitely reffered it to a select<br/>
committee of one member from each State.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_6_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TELEGRAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, March, 18, 6:18 p.m.—Cotton<br/>
irregular, market closes one farthing lower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen.Sherman's position uncertain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Gen.Sheridan has cap-<br/>
tured Charlottesville.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Early's Brigade have been made prison-<br/>
ers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lincoln's speech makes peace appear dis-<br/>
tant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, March, 22nd.–-Federal Govern-<br/>
ment are shipping to England the Cotton<br/>
captured at Savannah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Confederate Senate have passed Negro<br/>
Inlistment Bill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Early's defeat confirmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Twelve hundred prisoners captured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Confederates are deserting in Companies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton twelve and three-eights. Market<br/>
gloomy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MEXICO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Havana correspondent of the New<br/>
York Associated Press denies the statement<br/>
that Mexico had ceded any territory to<br/>
France, and that Senator Gwinn had been<br/>
appointed Viceroy. Gwinn had been<br/>
unsuccessful in pressing his claims in Mex-<br/>
ico, and was en route for Europe, in order<br/>
to urge them there.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The New York journals publish advices<br/>
from Mexico to January 20, according to<br/>
which the French were concentrating upon<br/>
Oajaca.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many towns were said to be throwing off<br/>
the imperial yoke.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Further advices from Mexico explain the<br/>
stout stand made at Oajaca by the native<br/>
troops from the fact that this natural fort-<br/>
ress is the birthplace of Juarez, and the<br/>
stronghold of his personal partisans. It<br/>
will tax all the agility of the Zouaves, it is<br/>
said, to scale the crags and ford the ravines<br/>
that fence it on every side. Military re-<br/>
ports represent the new Austrian and even<br/>
Belgian contingents as utterly unfit for the<br/>
sort of warfare that awaits them in this<br/>
wilderness. The troops are stately, solid<br/>
in their ranks, and tolerably serviceable on<br/>
level ground, but worthless for the work<br/>
of voltigeurs and smart skirmishers. They<br/>
have neither the endurance nor the activity<br/>
of the wiry, swift-footed French.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Mexico to the 29th of<br/>
January report that General Bazaine had<br/>
been defeated several times in the province<br/>
of Oaxier.—Juarez was said to be in So-<br/>
nora. The New York Tribune says,<br/>
private letters from Mexico state that the<br/>
Liberals are rising in the parts from which<br/>
the French had withdrawn. Diaz is as-<br/>
serted to have 12,000 men, and the entire<br/>
Liberal party numbered 60,000 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Semi-official advices from Sonora an-<br/>
nounce that a large force of Imperialist's<br/>
under Vega had invaded that province.<br/>
The Mexican General Patori started, at-<br/>
tacked, and defeated Vega at Elfurts, cap<br/>
turing his artillery and many prisoners,<br/>
including Vega himself, who was shot as<br/>
a traitor.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some six weeks since, we expressed the<br/>
hope, excited by a pretty well grounded<br/>
rumour, that the late visit of His Majesty,<br/>
the Supreme king of Siam to the Province<br/>
of Nak'awn-chei-see would result in the<br/>
construction of a large canal and carriage<br/>
road from this city to Ta-cheen river. We<br/>
are now happy to inform our readers that<br/>
that great internal Improvement has certain<br/>
ly been determined upon by His Majesty's<br/>
government, and will, it is believed, be ex-<br/>
pected with creditable despatch.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most western terminus of the canal,<br/>
we are informed, is to be in the immediate<br/>
vicinity of the Steam Sugar Mill of Poh-<br/>
Yim & Co now occupied by "The Borneo<br/>
Company Limited" on Ta-ch'een river.<br/>
The situation of this mill is said to be a-<br/>
bout twenty miles from the mouth of the<br/>
river and very nearly west of Bangkok.<br/>
Starting from that point, it is to take a bee-<br/>
line towards the tall spires of Temple<br/>
Aroon-rot or Wat Chaang, which joins the<br/>
palace of H. R. H. Krom Hluang Wongsa<br/>
on the north. The canal will not come to<br/>
the Temple, but meeting the old channel of<br/>
Menam Chow-Phya at Bang-Chak it will<br/>
there stop and deliver all its charge to the<br/>
Creek Bangkok-Yai, which empties into<br/>
the Menam at the upper Fort. The carri-<br/>
age road is to be made on one of the banks<br/>
of the canal; and from Bang-Chak where<br/>
the new canal is to stop, it is to continue<br/>
its straight forward course toward the spires<br/>
above mentioned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Messrs S. Bateman and Captain C.<br/>
Achune together with an officer from the<br/>
Lord Mayor of the city, have been duly<br/>
appointed to survey the route of the canal.<br/>
They made their first essay about a month<br/>
since; but finding the air too smoky to see<br/>
the goal to which they are to steer from<br/>
Ta-cheen river, they postponed the survey<br/>
until a fall of rain shall dispel the haziness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The distance from the Steam Sugar Mill<br/>
to Bang-Chak is said to be only 516 sens—-<br/>
to 12¾ miles, and from Bang-Chak to Tem-<br/>
ple Aroon-rat only 160 sens—4 miles.<br/>
    This Canal and road when completed will<br/>
indeed be a great improvement. It will<br/>
shorten the distance from that great Sugar<br/>
District to Bangkok more than 30 miles.<br/>
It will open a large tract of the richest<br/>
prairie land to easy access and lucrative<br/>
culture, in the growth of rice and sugar<br/>
cane, which tract has hitherto been almost<br/>
an entire waste from the want of water<br/>
privileges. It will create very many of the<br/>
most eligible agricultural and horticultural<br/>
estates. It will insure all the cane and<br/>
paddy fields, on its right and left, against<br/>
serious damages in times of drought by<br/>
bringing water always at hand from which<br/>
they can be irrigated. The road on the<br/>
bank of the Canal will make a charming<br/>
way for pony rides and drives, of which the<br/>
citizens of Bangkok living on the western<br/>
side of the river, are entirely deprived, and<br/>
find it hard to bear patiently when they see<br/>
their fellow citizens on the Eastern side<br/>
enjoying daily their galloping steeds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not only for the pleasure of the comparatively<br/>
few, who could afford to ride and<br/>
drive on this new Road, but much more for<br/>
the general welfare of all classes, is it to be<br/>
fervently hoped, that the Siamese Government<br/>
will make a short work of completing<br/>
this great public good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being the only "Bangkok Recorder" we<br/>
have to inform our readers that the Siamese<br/>
government have again been sadly disap-<br/>
pointed in regard to fond hopes placed up-<br/>
on White Elephants. The new Creature of<br/>
just the right complexion, which was supposed<br/>
to have been effectually surrounded<br/>
in the forests of Panat'aneek has prov-<br/>
en to be an apparition or an hoax, and it<br/>
is quite possible a combination of both.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At about 10 P. M. of the 25th inst<br/>
the house of Capt. Roberts was burglar-<br/>
iously entered by a Chinaman, who on be-<br/>
ing discovered by the inmates, attempted<br/>
to kill both Capt. Roberts and a China wo-<br/>
man living in the house. Both received<br/>
very severe and dangerous wounds, and<br/>
are now in a precarious state. Through<br/>
the kindness of Mr. Blake, Dr. Campbell<br/>
was promptly sent for, who most probably<br/>
saved the lives of both. The villian<br/>
must have received at least one wound from<br/>
Capt. Robert's sword-stick, for next morning<br/>
fresh blood was traced by the police<br/>
for several hundred yards. We sincerely<br/>
hope the mark he carries with him may<br/>
lead to his discovery, he deserves to be<br/>
made a public example.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Monday night a thief got on board<br/>
the Siamese barque "Fortune," and stole<br/>
a Chronometer (No. 2275 made by Frods-<br/>
am, ) valued at one hundred and twenty<br/>
ticals, a spy-glass and several yards of new<br/>
cloth from the cabin. The Capt, on being<br/>
awoke by the barking of his dog, saw a<br/>
Chinaman throw something over the ship's<br/>
tafrail and then jump after it. The thief<br/>
must have wrapped the Chronometer in<br/>
the cloth, and then made a small line<br/>
(which is missing also) fast to it, the<br/>
other end might be fastened to his waist<br/>
thus leaving both hands clear for swimming.<br/>
He swam so fast that before Capt. Luis<br/>
could man a boat he was lost sight of.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_7_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 13th TO 25th APRIL 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny. of fowls</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do Opium pipe</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do 7 Ticah</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Debt.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting the Police</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do do 74 balls</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cutting & wounding</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Trespass</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td colspan="3">Drunk & assaulting the Police.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_7_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01"><b>PRICE CURRENT.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">White Superior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">@ Tls.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">@ Tls. 13 pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>12¾<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>12¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">"<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>11¾<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">@ Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">8¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Brown No. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">8¼<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 10<span class="s1">⅜</span> picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">3 @ 4 pl. Tic. 3½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 3¼</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 3<span class="s1">⅛</span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">6 @ 7 pl. Tic. 2¾<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">7 @ 8 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Supplies coming forward.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Scarce @ Tls. 10½ Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">@ Tic. 150 @ 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">Tic.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">9 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Horns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">10 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Hides</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r01">10½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 180 @ 200.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 130 @ 150 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Gambege</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 47 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 115 @ 120 @ Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Sticlac</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 14 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">No.2 Tic. 12½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Ivery</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 326 - 346 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Cardamums</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 183 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 23¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Tic 75 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Laos, Tic 260,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">Cochin Tic. 710 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Gold leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Ansing Tic. 16 Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 2¼ @ 2¾ cent premium.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,<br/>
Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th<br/>
of February last, intestate, are<br/>
hereby required to send the<br/>
particulars in writing of their<br/>
claims to the undersigned the<br/>
administrator, on or before the<br/>
31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said<br/>
administrator will proceed to<br/>
distribute the estate and effects<br/>
of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having<br/>
regard only to such claims of<br/>
which he shall then have had<br/>
notice.<br/>
Dated at the British Consulate<br/>
Bangkok, Siam Mar. 14th 1856.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(s. d.) Thomas George Knox
H, B, M, Consul
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is stated that extensive reductions are<br/>
to be made in what may be called the ef-<br/>
fective strength of the army. This is to be<br/>
accomplished by increasing the reserve to<br/>
400,000 in the course of the present year,<br/>
which will reduce the number of men act-<br/>
ually under arms to about 340,000. A<br/>
great saving will thus be effected, as the<br/>
reserve receive pay only for the two months<br/>
during which they are out for training. It<br/>
is further said that the reason why this ar-<br/>
rangement was not stated in the imperial<br/>
speech was, that it was understood that it<br/>
would produce more effect if announced in<br/>
the Chamber of Deputies in the course of<br/>
the debate on the budget, and might prove<br/>
serviceable in shutting the mouths of the<br/>
Opposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A despatch from Cardinal Antonelli re-<br/>
lative to the letters of Mgr. Chigi had ar-<br/>
rived at the Foreign-office, and its contents<br/>
have given every satisfaction that the gov-<br/>
ernment had a right to expect. The For-<br/>
eign Minister is said to have informed the<br/>
Italian government that the period of two<br/>
years preceding the evacuation of Rome<br/>
by the French troops will be calculated<br/>
from the 6th of February last, that being<br/>
the day on which King Victor Emmanuel<br/>
left Turin for Florence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The committees who are to be entrusted<br/>
with the drawing up of the address in re-<br/>
ply to the emperor's speech have been elect-<br/>
ed by the Senate and the Corps Legis-<br/>
latif. It is observed that in the former<br/>
body the anti-clerical element greatly pre-<br/>
dominates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The leading members of the legislative<br/>
Opposition continue to hold meetings. M<br/>
M. Murie, Berryer, Thiers, Jules Simon,<br/>
Favre, Pelletan, Picard, Garnier Pages,<br/>
and others are to draw up the amendments<br/>
to the address. It appears to be the gen-<br/>
eral resolution not to make foreign affairs<br/>
so prominent a theme of discussion this<br/>
year as in former sessions Something will<br/>
no doubt be said about Italy and about<br/>
Mexico, but it does not seem probable<br/>
that there will be any organised opposition,<br/>
founded on France's relations with either<br/>
country. Home affairs will principally oc-<br/>
cupy attention. The state of education a-<br/>
mong the poor, and the laws which restrict<br/>
public meetings and the free expression of<br/>
opinion, will form subjects for animated<br/>
discussion. There is said to be a split a-<br/>
mongst the Opposition party, owing to M.<br/>
Ollivier having presumed to take an in-<br/>
dependent view and form a party for him-<br/>
self. The debate on the address is to come<br/>
on on March 13.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several of the Paris journals notice the<br/>
incompleteness of the intelligence contain-<br/>
ed in the livre jaune. Instead of contain-<br/>
ing a fair selection of the various despat-<br/>
ches on the important foreign questions<br/>
of the last year, the volume is confined ex-<br/>
clusively to the despatches of M. Drouyn<br/>
de Lhuys, ignoring entirely the despat-<br/>
ches received from the French ambas-<br/>
sadors at foreign courts. All that can be<br/>
learned from the book, it is said, is that<br/>
France is on bad terms with the Pope and<br/>
is casting a wistful eye on Tunis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Archbishop of Paris, one of the two<br/>
thorough-paced Bonapartists having a seat<br/>
on the episcopal bench, has issued a pas-<br/>
toral on the subject of the Encyclical let-<br/>
ter, which has been read from the pulpit<br/>
of every church in Paris It is extremely<br/>
long The archbishop endeavours to make<br/>
out that the Encyclical means nothing at<br/>
all, and praises the Pope as the friend of<br/>
progress, civilization, and so forth. He al-<br/>
so undertakes the defence of the concordat,<br/>
so violently attacked by some of his right<br/>
reverend brethren. The whole gist of the<br/>
document is decidedly anti-Papal. A<br/>
triumphal reception to the Bishop of Nis-<br/>
mes, on his return from Rome to his<br/>
diocese, had been prepared, but was pro-<br/>
hibited by the government, who invited<br/>
the bishop to keep quiet—an invitation<br/>
which the bishop meekly accepted.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE DUCHIES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian Government has informed<br/>
the Austrian cabinet of the nature of its<br/>
claims to the Duchies, but they have<br/>
not yet been published. It is understood<br/>
that in the discussions which have recently<br/>
taken place on this question two opposite<br/>
views were expressed in the Prussian cab-<br/>
inet. To day, February 27, an assembly<br/>
of delegates from the political associations<br/>
of Schleswig and Holstein will take place at<br/>
Rendsburg to express their wishes in<br/>
reference to the future relations between<br/>
the Duchies and Prussia. The Prussian<br/>
party is said to be making great efforts to<br/>
procure the passing of resolutions in favour of<br/>
annexation to Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two of the Prussian officers of the<br/>
Crown have gone to Copenhagen, to in-<br/>
stitute researches in the Danish archives in<br/>
reference to the right of succession to the<br/>
Duchies. The royal commission have<br/>
already informed M. von Bismarck that<br/>
they will not grant the whole of the rights<br/>
to one pretender only, and that they will<br/>
be compelled to admit that the claims of<br/>
the Duke of Augustenburg entitle him to<br/>
one-third part of the succession. A com-<br/>
promise between Prussia and the duke will<br/>
therefore become unavoidable. Should<br/>
Prussia decide upon the complete annex-<br/>
ation of both Duchies, a fair indemnity<br/>
should be allowed to the Duke of Augsten-<br/>
burg. If, on the other hand, Prussia should<br/>
determine upon to relinquishing the sovereign-<br/>
ity of the Duchies to the duke, it is understood<br/>
that she will not do so without retaining<br/>
the sovereignty over certain territorial<br/>
points.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITALY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
King Victor Emmanuel left Florence for<br/>
Bologna on Feb 22. The National Guard<br/>
lined the streets through which his majesty<br/>
passed. The king proceeded on the follow-<br/>
ing day to Turin, where he was received<br/>
by the municipal junta and deputations<br/>
from working men’s societies. Great en-<br/>
thusiasm was manifested. His majesty<br/>
subsequently passed in review the National<br/>
Guard, by whom he was loudly cheered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A petition has been presented to the<br/>
Senate, signed by 11,000 inhabitants of<br/>
Turin, relative to the events of September<br/>
last. The consideration of this petition<br/>
was declared urgent by the Senate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Turin papers deny that the two<br/>
years preceding the evacuation of Rome<br/>
by the French troops are to be calculated<br/>
from the day of the king’s departure for<br/>
Florence. The ‘Opinione’ refers to the<br/>
agreement dated the 3rd of October last,<br/>
according to which the period is to be<br/>
reckoned from the date of the decree for<br/>
the transfer of the capital. The decree<br/>
was sanctioned by the king on the 11th of<br/>
December.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another notorious brigand has been<br/>
captured in Italy. General Pallavicini has<br/>
approached the celebrated Totaro, to-<br/>
gether with ten men of his band. He is<br/>
described as a tall man, stern and gloomy-<br/>
looking, rather than of ferocious aspect, 37<br/>
years old, and of great cunning and<br/>
resource.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Tan Kim Ching, Siamese Consul at<br/>
Singapore, will remain in Bangkok, till the<br/>
departure of the next mail, per Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DEATH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Died at his residence Santa Cruz, April<br/>
19th ult Mr. Robert Hunter, secretary of<br/>
His Excellency the Prime Minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
An Irishman lost his hat in a well, and was let<br/>
down in a bucket to recover it ; the well being ex-<br/>
tremely deep, his courage failed him before he reach-<br/>
ed the water. In vain did he call to those above<br/>
him ; they lent a deaf ear to all he said, till at last<br/>
quite in despair, he bellowed out, "Be St. Patrick,<br/>
if you don't draw me up, sure I'd let go the rope!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_9_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Arrivals
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 16th Viscount Canning, 311 Tons,<br/>
Siam. Steamer, Shannon Commander, Hong<br/>
Kong. Consignee Poh Chin Soo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 22nd Chow Phya, 353 Tons Siam.<br/>
Steamer, Orton Commander, Saigon. Con-<br/>
signee, Poh Yim.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Departures
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 18th Shooting Star, 400 Tons,<br/>
Siam. Ship, Berhun Commander, for Hong<br/>
Kong,
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r16a">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MAY 1ST 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r1d8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Offdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">383</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bau Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bentick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Costa Rica</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Chow Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schroder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Keng Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Düppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ponsonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reparing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eclipse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Camman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">305</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Shanghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">F. or Charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">381</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Janssen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Aictorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">293</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sta Neam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliath</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Johnstone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">650</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Monlter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">397</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Gun boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">...</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">132</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Boon Seng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reparing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolfie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Holinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">716</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Koefoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Poterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Naeon Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Loolhee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seng Thai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nai Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hide</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Discharging</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jugerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Lay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Habercroft</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Pon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hjinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Koo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reparing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ty Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Polaskie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Ma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Grieg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">J Bush</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
