---
linkTitle: 'July 15th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 15th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 15th'
date: 2025-09-24T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 13
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK SATURDAY JULY 15th 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 13</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang<br/>
Luang" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok July 15th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since our last issue the celebration of<br/>
the 4th has been the principle local event, at<br/>
least so far as Americans are concerned. The<br/>
programme of the day has been given pretty<br/>
fully already, elsewhere, still we shall ven-<br/>
ture to give it again briefly. The proces-<br/>
sion which was to come off at 10 A. M. did<br/>
not take place until nearly noon, which<br/>
made it just in the heat of the day. The<br/>
tide was also ebbing very rapidly which<br/>
made it very difficult to keep boats in pro-<br/>
cession on the river. That part of the<br/>
performances might have been dispensed with<br/>
without detracting from the other exercises<br/>
of the day. The audience met in the<br/>
Chapel of the Presbyterian Mission, and<br/>
the exercises were opened with the reading<br/>
of Scripture and prayer. The whole Ameri-<br/>
can community was present, and also the<br/>
Consuls of the other Treaty Powers, and<br/>
very many of the other European residents.<br/>
After prayer and singing the "Glorious day<br/>
of Liberty," the "Declaration of Indepen-<br/>
dence," was read by G, W, VIRGIN Esq.<br/>
U. S. Vice Consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although this document was made and<br/>
signed eighty nine years ago, and has long<br/>
since been recorded as a great historical<br/>
event, we were surprised to find that but<br/>
few of the Englishmen here had ever seen<br/>
or read it. Having thus passed into history<br/>
it can be read any where by Americans,<br/>
and listened to by Englishmen of the pre-<br/>
sent generation, without any unpleasant<br/>
feeling. Besides, all candid Englishmen<br/>
acknowledge that George III. acted unwise-<br/>
ly in regard to the Colonies, and drove<br/>
them to take the steps they did. English<br/>
historians too, will acknowledge that the<br/>
declaration was an act which has been<br/>
largely conducive to the best interests of<br/>
humanity. The reading of it might have<br/>
been dispensed with, on the 4th, but it<br/>
would have appeared to Americans like<br/>
ignoring their "Magna Charta."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The address on the occasion was extem.<br/>
poraneous but appropriate, and will likely<br/>
be reproduced and printed in pamphlet<br/>
form. "Hail Columbia" was then sung<br/>
and President Lincoln's Emancipation pro-<br/>
clamation read. "The Flag of America"<br/>
was then sung, and President Lincoln's last<br/>
inaugural read. "The Star Spangled Ban-<br/>
ner" was then sung, after which a series of<br/>
resolutions, expressive of the sentiments of<br/>
Americans here were adopted. The exercises<br/>
were then closed with prayer. After retiring<br/>
from the chapel the audience partook of a<br/>
collation prepared by the American ladies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fireworks had been ordered for the<br/>
evening, and almost the entire European<br/>
community assembled at the residence of<br/>
F. Blake Esq. at 8 o'clock p. m. to witness<br/>
them. After the fireworks were over they<br/>
all partook of a repast which Mr. Blake had<br/>
prepared for the occasion, The whole affair<br/>
passed off very agreeably, and creditably<br/>
to all. We are glad to be able to say that<br/>
there was nothing like intoxication or im-<br/>
proper conduct during the whole perform-<br/>
ance. Americans have often been charged<br/>
(and sometimes justly) with exhibiting a<br/>
little too much "spread eagle" on Inde-<br/>
pendence day, but we think the present<br/>
occasion is free from any such charge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A paper coming from very high authority,<br/>
and addressed to the American citizens and<br/>
the Newspapers here, throws upon the con-<br/>
ductors of those papers the "onus probandi"<br/>
that the United States is as great a country<br/>
as Americans say it is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This paper has been translated and print-<br/>
ed by our contemporary, so we need not re<br/>
publish it. The task assigned to us we do<br/>
not care to undertake for several reasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would be difficult to prove to a man<br/>
born blind, that there are seven primary<br/>
colors in the rainbow, and that neither<br/>
nature nor art has produced any thing else<br/>
to equal it in beasty. It would be equally<br/>
difficult to prove to one whose ideas<br/>
scarcely gone beyond the limits of his own<br/>
small Kingdom, that America, lying twelve<br/>
thousand miles distant, on the other side of<br/>
the globe, is the greatest country in the<br/>
world, how much soever Americans may<br/>
believe it to be so. It would even be difficult<br/>
for him to conceive its vast area in<br/>
square miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He also says, he does not wish to read<br/>
"Lengthy articles which do not refer to<br/>
things present." If then he is unwilling to<br/>
go back to first causes it is impossible for<br/>
him to understand the nature of the rebellion<br/>
which has raged for the last four years<br/>
in the United States, and which has been<br/>
so successfully put down. Again the writer<br/>
of the article is so taken up with such titles<br/>
as "Majesty, Imperial, &c.," that it would<br/>
be difficult for him with his present feelings,<br/>
to comprehend or appreciate, the workings<br/>
of such a government as that of the United<br/>
States, where such titles have really no<br/>
meaning. He has also a set of correspon-<br/>
dents in London and elsewhere, upon whom<br/>
he relies implicitly for his information, and<br/>
who are either not capable of informing<br/>
him correctly upon the affairs of the United<br/>
States, or do not wish to do so. For in-<br/>
stance, in a letter to one of the Consuls here,<br/>
he says that his London correspondent tells him,<br/>
that the assassination of President Lin-<br/>
coln is only an indication, that the rebellion<br/>
is about to break out in a new place. So<br/>
long then as he trusts implicitly for his<br/>
information to such sources, it is useless for<br/>
us to inform him to the contrary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The best way to dispel his doubts in re-<br/>
gard to the United States, would be to<br/>
send an Embassy to that government, and<br/>
we think, now that the war is over this gov-<br/>
ernment of the United States will renew<br/>
its application for an embassy from the<br/>
court of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In that embassy there should be at least<br/>
one of those who have already been to<br/>
Europe. That one too, should be a per-<br/>
son like the worthy Lieut. Gov. of Pet-<br/>
chaburee, or the present International judge,<br/>
who would not be carried off with the fol-<br/>
lies—the "Kan len" of the country, or its<br/>
brandy, but would be capable of examin-<br/>
ing into the workings of the government<br/>
and the internal improvements of the coun-<br/>
try, and of comparing them impartially with<br/>
what they saw in Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Resolutions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolutions: passed at the 89th anni-<br/>
versary of American independence, cele-<br/>
brated at Bangkok July 4th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whereas we the American citizens resid-<br/>
ing in the Kingdom of Siam, are met to day<br/>
for the purpose of appropriately celebrating<br/>
this the 89th anniversary of our national<br/>
independence, we also consider it expedient<br/>
to give some expression of our sentiments<br/>
upon such an occasion, Therefore—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 1st-—That while far from our<br/>
native land we still glory in our birthright<br/>
as American citizens, and having sym-<br/>
pathised in our country's struggles and sor-<br/>
rows, we now rejoice in her triumphs and<br/>
restored prosperity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 2d-—That whilst slavery has<br/>
hitherto been a blot upon our national es-<br/>
cutcheon, we to day look with unmingled<br/>
pleasure upon the banner of our country,<br/>
and with exultant joy behold its unstained<br/>
folds waving over "the land of the free and<br/>
the home of the brave."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 3d—That whilst we enjoy the<br/>
protection of our national flag in a foreign<br/>
country, we pledge ourselves to honor it,<br/>
and the country we represent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 4th-—That while we honor the<br/>
Rulers of our land who have stood by her<br/>
constitution and executed her laws—and the<br/>
patriotic statesmen who have defended our<br/>
national rights against foreign encroach-<br/>
ments and domestic insurrection—-and those<br/>
valiant commanders who have led forth<br/>
armies and our fleets to conflict and victory<br/>
—and those noble men who have so gener-<br/>
ously sacrificed their lives on the altar of<br/>
their country-—we recognize also with<br/>
special interest those heroic women who<br/>
have in all times of our country's peril, with<br/>
such unflinching patriotism, given up their<br/>
husbands and brothers, their sons and fath-<br/>
ers for liberty and their country's life, and<br/>
have roused with untiring faithfulness the<br/>
sick and the wounded, among our soldiers<br/>
and sailors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 5th-—That in the midst of our<br/>
Jubilant exultations over the recent triumphs<br/>
of our army and navy-—we bow with pro-<br/>
found humiliation and sorrow, before that<br/>
mysterious Providence which has brought<br/>
our late President, Abraham Lincoln, to<br/>
his tragical end, and left us to mingle our<br/>
tears with a nation in mourning, while re-<br/>
gardless of political creeds and party dis-<br/>
tinctions with one accord we cherish with<br/>
hallowed memory the varied excellencies of<br/>
our late Chief Magistrate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved 6th—-That in our National In-<br/>
dependence which to day we celebrate, as<br/>
well as in the deadly strife from which we<br/>
have been so recently delivered, we recog-<br/>
nise the merciful interposition of Almighty<br/>
God, to whom belongs our devout thanks.<br/>
given, and all the glory.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Generals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 107)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Grant's rising star was nigh culmi-<br/>
nating however at Shiloh or Pittsburg Land-<br/>
ing. After Donelson he did not remain long<br/>
idle. He transported his troops down the<br/>
Cumberland, and up the Tennessee to Shi-<br/>
loh. Jeff Davis had sent Beauregard and<br/>
Albert S. Johnston, his two crack Generals<br/>
at the time to arouse the friends of the Con-<br/>
federacy in the west. Johnston was the sen-<br/>
ior in command. Grant's head quarters were<br/>
at Shiloh. Gen. Buell was crossing the coun-<br/>
try to join Grant. The rebels were at Corinth<br/>
They conceived the bold plan of surprising<br/>
Grant, bagging his army and munitions of<br/>
war, and seizing the steamers in the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great blame was at the time heaped upon<br/>
Grant for allowing himself to be surprised,<br/>
but from which he has long since been ex-<br/>
erated. It is certain however that he did<br/>
not expect an attack, but such an attack to<br/>
any other one than Grant, would have been<br/>
ruinous. It is said by those present that he<br/>
reconnoitered in person on the previous even-<br/>
ing before retiring to his head quarters, and<br/>
had left orders for a signal gun to be fired<br/>
should there be any indications of an attack.<br/>
Early on Sabbath morning the rebels advanc-<br/>
ed in the twilight and whilst many of the<br/>
Union soldiers were in their beds asleep, the<br/>
bullets of the enemy came whizzing around<br/>
them. We give the scene of the battle in the<br/>
language of an eye witness. "But where is<br/>
Grant? Boom! Boom! I went the signal gun<br/>
ordered in case of an attack. He instantly<br/>
ordered his horses and trains to be made<br/>
ready. He sent a messenger to Buell ten<br/>
miles distant and in an hour and a quarter<br/>
was at the head of the army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The noble Sherman had already ridden<br/>
with the speed of the wind over the field of<br/>
chaotic strife, and stemmed the tide of<br/>
disaster.  I shall not attempt to give you<br/>
the exact aspect of the field, but the general<br/>
result, especially Gen. Grant's part in the<br/>
fortunes of the day. He found the fresh<br/>
troops of Prentiss' routed. Indeed the<br/>
entire front was broken in and crushed back<br/>
a mile. The mad and proud surges of rebel-<br/>
lion after carrying on their crest the wrecks<br/>
of Prentiss' and Mc. Clennand's commands<br/>
dashed against that of Wallace. A shell cut<br/>
open Gen, Johnston's thigh and he was<br/>
borne to the rear to bleed to death, whilst<br/>
the terrible blow was concealed from his<br/>
troops. All the while Gen, Grant was<br/>
breasting the wild tumult of panic, and in-<br/>
vasion, causing the arrest of a dozen fright-<br/>
ened field officers who were flying and<br/>
crying we are "whipped let every one who<br/>
can save himself". With Gen. Sherman<br/>
to second every movement he held and<br/>
reorganized the tumultuous masses of sol-<br/>
diery for then long hours of bloody carnage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At length there is a chance for the gun<br/>
boats on the river, and then globes of iron<br/>
and imprisoned fire go shrieking and bursting<br/>
up the ravine down which Gen. Bragg's<br/>
forces were moving by order of Beauregard<br/>
to drive the broken columns of our army<br/>
into the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Destruction rides upon the awful storm of<br/>
batteries protected by and acting in concert<br/>
with the gun boats. About noon Gen,<br/>
Buell reached the ground in advance of his<br/>
troops. He asked Gen. Grant what pro-<br/>
visions he had made for retreat in case of<br/>
defeat. "I am not going to be defeated"<br/>
replied Grant. "Such an event is possible"<br/>
added Buell "and it is the duty of every<br/>
prudent General to provide for such a con-<br/>
tingency." Grant pointed to the transports<br/>
quietly asking "Don't you see those boats"<br/>
"Yes but they will not carry more than<br/>
10,000 men and we have 30,000." "Ten<br/>
thousand is more than I intend to retreat<br/>
with" replied Grant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the sun hung low in the sky of<br/>
that Sabbath day he sent his beams aslant<br/>
through the murky atmosphere, and along<br/>
the ghastly heaps of dead. "We shall hold<br/>
them yet" said Grant but scarcely any<br/>
besides himself believed it. Whatever<br/>
others may have thought then or still think<br/>
Gen. Grant expected to come unconquered<br/>
out of the dire confusion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a commotion on the opposite<br/>
bank and then a shout; Buell's troops are<br/>
in sight. The boats cross over and receive<br/>
the timely reinforcements. Monday's sun<br/>
streaked with herald beams the east, when<br/>
Gen. Grant with Buell's army added, antici-<br/>
pated Beauregard, (whose intention it was<br/>
to fall upon the Union troops and gain the<br/>
landing,) and ordered an attack. The fan-<br/>
cied annihilator of Gen. Grant was met by<br/>
Nelson on whose front the gunboats had<br/>
driven the rebels back. For an hour the<br/>
doubtful struggle raged, till Mendenhall's<br/>
battery came up and poured in the grape.<br/>
* * The rebels intoxicated with whis-<br/>
key in which was dissolved gun powder,<br/>
and recklessly confident of driving our<br/>
troops into the Tennessee shouted along<br/>
the lines "Bull Ran; Bull-Run;" and<br/>
when our troops prevailed they shouted"<br/>
"Fort Donelson; Fort Donelson;" Gen.<br/>
Grant and staff who had been recklessly<br/>
riding along the lines during the entire<br/>
day amid the unceasing storm of bullets,<br/>
grape, and shell, now rode from right to<br/>
left inciting the men to stand firm. About<br/>
8 o’clock in the afternoon he rode to the<br/>
left, where the fresh regiments had been<br/>
ordered and finding the rebels wavering,<br/>
sent a portion of his body guard to the<br/>
head of each of the five regiments and or-<br/>
dered a charge across the field, himself<br/>
leading, and as he brandished his sword<br/>
and waved them on to the crowning victory,<br/>
the cannon balls were falling like hail a-<br/>
round him. The men followed with a shout<br/>
tht sounded above the roar of artillery;<br/>
and the rebels fled in dismay as from a des-<br/>
troying avalanche and never made another<br/>
stand."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jealousy and hate together with a misap-<br/>
prehension of the facts were again aimed<br/>
at Gen. Grant's rising popularity. A com-<br/>
mittee among whom were the governors<br/>
of some of the states again waited upon<br/>
Gen. Halleck and asked for the removal of<br/>
Grant, urging the loss of life at Shiloh and<br/>
also declared him wanting in capacity and<br/>
sobriety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hon. E.B. Washburn of Illinois, de-<br/>
fended Gen. Grant from the detractions of<br/>
his enemies in an eloquent speech upon the <br/>
floor of Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I come before the house to do a great <br/>
act of justice to a soldier in the field, and<br/>
to vindicate him from the obloquy and<br/>
misrepresentation so persistently and cruel-<br/>
ly thrust before the country. I refer to a<br/>
distinguished general who has recently<br/>
fought the bloodiest, and hardest battle<br/>
ever fought on this continent, and won<br/>
one of the most brilliant victories. I mean<br/>
the battle of Pittsburg Landing and Major<br/>
Gen. U. S. Grant. Though but forty years<br/>
old he has been oftener under fire and been<br/>
in more battles than any other man on this<br/>
continent, except that Great Chieftain now<br/>
reposing on his laurels and on the affections<br/>
of his countrymen, Lieutenant Gen. Scott.<br/>
He was in every battle in Mexico that it<br/>
was possible for any one man to be in. He<br/>
has received the baptismal fire. No young<br/>
officer came out of the Mexican war with<br/>
more distinction than Grant, and the re-<br/>
cords of the war department bear official<br/>
testimony to his gallant and noble deeds.<br/>
He resigned in 1855 and afterwards settled<br/>
in Galena the district I have the honor to<br/>
represent on this floor. I came here to<br/>
speak of an Illinoisan, proud of his noble<br/>
and patriotic state, proud of its great his-<br/>
tory now being made up, proud above all<br/>
earthly things of her brave soldiers, who<br/>
are shedding their blood upon all the bat-<br/>
tle fields of the Republic. If the laurels of<br/>
Grant shall ever be withered it will not be<br/>
done by the Illinois soldiers who, have fol-<br/>
lowed his victorious banners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But to the victory of Pittsburg Landing<br/>
which has called forth such a flood of de-<br/>
nunciation upon Gen. Grant. When we con-<br/>
sider the charges of bad generalship, incom-<br/>
petency and surprise do we not feel that<br/>
even the joy of the people is cruel? Also to<br/>
the question whether there was or not what<br/>
might be called a surprise. I will not argue<br/>
it, but even if there had been Gen. Grant is <br/>
not responsible for it, for he was not sur-<br/>
prised. He was at his head quarters <br/>
when the fight commenced. His head quarters<br/>
were in the proper place for the command-<br/>
ing general at the time. He visited Pitts-<br/>
burg Landing and all the important points<br/>
every day. The attack was made on Sun-<br/>
day morning by a vastly superior force. In<br/>
five minutes after the first firing was heard<br/>
Gen. Grant and staff were on their way to<br/>
the battle field, and instead of not reaching<br/>
the field till 10 oclock, or as has been still<br/>
more falsely represented until noon, I have<br/>
a letter before me from one of his aids who<br/>
was with him, and who says he arrived<br/>
there at 8 oclock in the morning, and im-<br/>
mediately assumed command. There he<br/>
directed the movements, and was always<br/>
on that part of the field where his presence<br/>
was most required, exposing his life and<br/>
evincing in his dispositions the genius of<br/>
the greatest commanders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With what desperate bravery that battle<br/>
of Sunday was fought! What display of<br/>
prowess and courage! What prodigies of<br/>
valor! Our troops less than 40,000 strong<br/>
attacked by 80,000 of the enemies picked<br/>
troops and led by their most distinguished<br/>
generals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no more temperate man in the<br/>
army than Gen, Grant. He never indulges<br/>
in the use of intoxicating liquors at all. He<br/>
is an example of courage, honor, fortitude,<br/>
activity; temperance and modesty, for he<br/>
is as modest as he is brave and incorruptible.<br/>
To the bravery and fortitude of Lannes he<br/>
adds the stern republican simplicity of<br/>
St. Cyr. It is almost vain to hope that full<br/>
justice with ever be done to men who have<br/>
been thus attacked. Truth is slow upon<br/>
the heels of falsehood. It has well been<br/>
said that falsehood will travel from Maine<br/>
to Georgia, while truth is putting on her<br/>
boots. Let no gentleman have any fears<br/>
of Gen, Grant, he is no candidate for the<br/>
presidency. He is no politician. Inspired<br/>
by the noblest patriotism, be only desiress<br/>
to do his whole duty to his country. When<br/>
the war is over he will return to his home<br/>
and sink the soldier in the citizen."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after Pittsburg Landing came the<br/>
seige of Corinth. Gen Halleck was present<br/>
in person. The rebels evacuated the place,<br/>
but Halleck afterwards acknowledged that<br/>
if he had followed Grant's suggestions he <br/>
might have captured the whole rebel forces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vicksburg the Gibraltar of the Mississippi <br/>
was the next place of attack. Toward this<br/>
Grant now directed his columns and here <br/>
he made his reputation. Vicksburg stands<br/>
in a great bend in the Mississippi. The first <br/>
thing tried was to cut a canal across the<br/>
bend and change the channel of the river <br/>
leaving Vicksburg inland, but this proved<br/>
a failure. Gen. Grant had not yet reached <br/>
the city in person. The seige was then<br/>
apparently raised and a shout of defiance <br/>
went up from the rebel fortress. An-<br/>
other accident occurred which frustrated <br/>
another plan of Grant's and caused sev-<br/>
eral weeks delay. Colonel Murphy left in <br/>
charge at Holly Springs allowed himself<br/>
to be surprised. Gen. Sherman who had <br/>
been left at Memphis carried out his part<br/>
of the plan, and made an unsuccessful at-<br/>
tack on Vicksburg. Gen. Grant moved his<br/>
head quarters to Vicksburg. Lake Provi-<br/>
dence is but a mile from the Mississippi and<br/>
a plan was formed of cutting a canal to<br/>
that lake and then passing out through<br/>
the bayous to the Red River, and thence<br/>
into the Mississippi below Vicksburg. After<br/>
reaching lake Providence. however it was<br/>
found that the waters were too low and the<br/>
plan was abandoned. Another wilder ex-<br/>
pedition was proposed by some one of go-<br/>
ing through the Yazoo pass leading from<br/>
the Mississippi to Cold Water and the Tal-<br/>
lahatchie rivers, and getting a passage for<br/>
troops to Hains' Bluff near the mouth of<br/>
the Yazoo river, but the rebels found is<br/>
out and sent a force to frustrate the plan.<br/>
Grant now undertook one of the boldest<br/>
and most hazardous things in the annals of<br/>
warfare.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He marches his troops across the bend<br/>
of the river whilst the gun boats and trans-<br/>
port run the batteries at Vickburg. This<br/>
accomplished he moved down the river to<br/>
Grand Gulf, took that and thence to Fort<br/>
Gibson, and there surprised the rebels. In<br/>
the mean time in order to divert the rebel<br/>
attention he sent Sherman up the Yazoo<br/>
pass to threaten Hains' Bluff, and Corwin<br/>
was sent along the Mobile and Ohio rail-<br/>
road to divert the attention in that direction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After taking Raymond and Jackson he<br/>
threw his forces in the rear of Vicks-<br/>
burg. He makes an attack but fails. The<br/>
rebels in turn march out and attack him<br/>
but are severely repulsed. Seeing that the <br/>
place could not be taken by storm without<br/>
great sacrifice of life, he established himself<br/>
for a regular seige. In the mean time the<br/>
rebel Gen, Joe, Johnston was collecting<br/>
troops and preparing to attack him in the<br/>
rear, and make him raise the seige. A<br/>
hundred times was it declared by the rebel<br/>
journals, and as often reiterated by sym-<br/>
pathizing journals in Europe, that Johnston<br/>
was just about to annihilate Grant. Grant<br/>
however had taken good care to prepare<br/>
for such an attack and had sent his favorite<br/>
Sherman to attend to Johnston. The fol-<br/>
lowing despatch from Gen. Pemberton to <br/>
Gen. Johnston was captured, "I have 15000 <br/>
men at Vicksburg, and rations for thirty<br/>
days—one meal a day. Come to my aid<br/>
with 80,000 men,—attack Grant in the<br/>
rear. If you can't do it within ten days<br/>
you had better retreat, Ammunition is al-<br/>
most exhausted particularly percussion<br/>
caps." Many other despatches, and private<br/>
letters were captured, all desponding but<br/>
hoping Johnston would soon come to there<br/>
relief Grant wrote to Sherman "They<br/>
seem to put great confidence in the Lord<br/>
and Joe Johnston but you must whip John-<br/>
ston at least fifteen miles from here." John-<br/>
ston however kept out of the way of Sherm-<br/>
an. Days pass on and at last Pemberton<br/>
unable to hold out any longer surrendered<br/>
July 4th 1863. Grant's reputation was<br/>
made. After the fall of Vicksburg some<br/>
of the complaining gentlemen called on<br/>
President Lincoln when the following con-<br/>
versation took place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"So Grant drinks whiskey to excess!"<br/>
remarked the President. "Yes" was the<br/>
reply. "What whiskey does he drink?"<br/>
asked Mr Lincoln.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What whiskey!" doubtfully enquired<br/>
the gentlemen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, is it Bourbon or Monongahela?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why do you ask Mr President?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Because if it makes him gain such<br/>
victories as Vicksburg I will send a demi-<br/>
john of the same kind to every General in<br/>
the army.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tour to the Hot Springs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
( Continued from page 120 )
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the first excitement of finding<br/>
and examining the Hot Springs began to<br/>
flag at about 10 o'clock A. M., we then be-<br/>
came somewhat impatient for the ar-<br/>
rival of our "staff of life" which we had<br/>
left in our rear far beyond our call. In-<br/>
deed we then learned, with surprise, that<br/>
the bearers of it were left to start from the<br/>
Karen village after we did; and hence a<br/>
multitude of queries arose, as for example;<br/>
have they, Siamese like, delayed an hour<br/>
or two in starting! Is it not possible that<br/>
they have mistaken our breakfast for our<br/>
dinner? Have they missed the way as we<br/>
did, and not been favored with a stranger<br/>
to set them right, as we were. Shall we<br/>
have to wait till noon for our breakfast, and<br/>
then, possibly, be obliged to return for it<br/>
to the Karen village in the evening.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was too hot to rove about in search of<br/>
geological specimens or other curiosities.<br/>
The terrible "sun stroke" menaced us by<br/>
all the openings of the leafless limbs. To <br/>
find a tolerable shade was then a great de-<br/>
sideratum to every one of us. We tried<br/>
one and another and another, lying down<br/>
in each successively.  But there was no<br/>
abiding confidence to be placed in any<br/>
shade of trees, because the sun could not<br/>
be made to "stand still," and look down in<br/>
one direction only.  He would gaze through<br/>
the crevices of the thin leaves upon us,<br/>
and upon favoring this spot, anon with the<br/>
sweet veiling of his beams.  But we found<br/>
his favors so narrow and evanescent that<br/>
we soon abandoned all hopes of comfort<br/>
from them, and unanimously resolved to<br/>
convert a certain wild beast's lair, under a<br/>
low bower of bushes and thorny vines, close<br/>
by the spring, into a human lodging place.<br/>
Calling to our aid our Karen attendants,<br/>
armed with their short swords and the<br/>
bushman's knife and cleaver, we cut out<br/>
the thorns, and hewed down the little<br/>
stumps, and scraped off the old leaves; and<br/>
then spreading down our mats and blankets<br/>
we crawled into the place, hoping to get<br/>
each a little nap out of sight of the sun our<br/>
subtle persecutor.  But it proved to be but<br/>
a miserable protection from the vertical<br/>
beams, for the bushes and vines, though<br/>
quite thick, had but few leaves, and the ar-<br/>
bors was so arranged above and around us as to<br/>
precede all hope of cleansing the shade by any<br/>
screens that we could put up.<br/>
    Our circumstances were especially trying<br/>
to our invalid companion, who had been <br/>
seized with the dysentery in the early morn-<br/>
ing, and was then suffering so much pain from <br/>
it. But our merciful Heavenly Father <br/>
had taken care to provide a remedy for <br/>
him even in that wild Karen jungle. He <br/>
had put it into the heart of one of our<br/>
number, and he not a physician, to bring<br/>
with him a few doses of "Dover Powder."<br/>
Of this we administered to him from ten<br/>
to fifteen grains, which produced speedy<br/>
and great relief.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At 11 o'clock our stewards arrived<br/>
with the box of food and goblet of water<br/>
swinging between them. Their coming was<br/>
hailed with shouts of joy. But it was soon<br/>
discovered, that not only the guns had<br/>
been left behind, but also the teakettle.<br/>
And we all felt, that in our circumstances,<br/>
tea was almost as important to our health<br/>
and comfort as food. How then shall we<br/>
make our tea! was the earnest enquiry.<br/>
Through natures teakettle was boiling splen-<br/>
didly close at our feet, we were at first too <br/>
stupid to think that we might borrow a<br/>
little of its crystal water in which to infuse<br/>
our tea leaves. Hence we all set our wits<br/>
to work in all other directions to devise<br/>
some substitute for a teakettle. If we were<br/>
among any human habitations we might<br/>
borrow an earthen rice pot for the purpose.<br/>
But no such hope was allowed us. It was<br/>
proposed to try our goblet. But no, that<br/>
would break by the first touch of the fire.<br/>
As necessity is wont to become the moth-<br/>
er of invention, so now we were going to<br/>
see that edge verified. Our guide, one of<br/>
the most stupid of men, as it seemed to us,<br/>
proposed that we buil water in a section of<br/>
bamboo. The thought at first seemed pre-<br/>
posterous. But a little reflection reminded <br/>
us that the natives bake cakes in such ves-<br/>
sels, and why not boil water, for a joint of<br/>
bamboo is water tight, and while green it <br/>
is with the greatest difficulty made to burn.<br/>
It was a unanimous vote to try the virtues<br/>
of such a teakettle. A native cut down a<br/>
bamboo tree of middling size and cut off<br/>
one joint of it for the purpose. It had a<br/>
calibre of three inches diameter, and was <br/>
about fourteen inches in length. Being <br/>
filled with water, it was placed in a leaning<br/>
posture against a stone, and then a fire was<br/>
made under its lower side. The experi-<br/>
ment was completely successful, and the water<br/>
was quickly boiling. But just at that junc-<br/>
ture another embarrassing discovery was <br/>
made, which was, that we had no teapot.<br/>
(Strange to say, that then our inventive<br/>
faculties were too dull to think that anoth-<br/>
er joint of the same bamboo would have<br/>
made a good teapot.) There was only one<br/>
thing we could think of that could be made<br/>
to serve for one, and that was a slender tin<br/>
canister in which we had brought a little<br/>
sugar. This offered a fair hope of being all<br/>
that we needed. The sugar was turned out,<br/>
and the tea leaves and hot water turned in.<br/>
But here a third obstacle met us. The tea-<br/>
pot was found to leak not only at the top<br/>
but also at the bottom. Happily it was so<br/>
small a leak, that only about half of the<br/>
water escaped while the tea was steeping.<br/>
In this way we supplied ourselves, but too<br/>
slowly, with a very palatable and whole-<br/>
some beverage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The spirit of experimenting having be-<br/>
come dominant, it popped into the head of<br/>
one of the gentlemen, that we had been fools<br/>
up to that moment, in not considering<br/>
that we could make tea from the water al-<br/>
ready boiling in the Spring.  He at once<br/>
put a spoonful of tea leaves into a soda<br/>
water flask, and filling it with the hot wa-<br/>
ter left it to steep awhile directly where the<br/>
water comes rolling up from the sea of fire<br/>
beneath.  In less than ten minutes the<br/>
infusion became colored as usual in well<br/>
made tea, and was found to answer all the<br/>
purposes of that enlivening beverage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having finished our breakfast about<br/>
noon, we sent our Karen stewards back to<br/>
our lodgings bearing between them what<br/>
little remained, determining ourselves to wait<br/>
two or three hours, as best we could, and<br/>
then follow in the cooler part of the day.<br/>
We tried thoroughly the lair for a loung-<br/>
ing place, but found it fearfully close and<br/>
hot. Possibly imagination aided in getting<br/>
up the intensity of the heat; for superadded<br/>
to a cloudless sun streaming through our<br/>
bower, we had a large marsh of hot water<br/>
spread out before us, and an ocean of vol-<br/>
canic fire not many miles beneath us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While thus waiting, one of our Karen<br/>
attendants brought to us a dead black<br/>
faced monkey which he had just shot with<br/>
a poisoned arrow from his cross-gun. The<br/>
arrow had entered his belly and produced,<br/>
as the archer affirmed, instant death. The<br/>
body appeared to have been convulsed by<br/>
the poison. Our archer had his quiver<br/>
full of arrows all tipped with a vegetable<br/>
poison. He said he was going to take the<br/>
monkey home and eat it. What, said one of<br/>
the gentlemen, eat flesh that has been pois-<br/>
oned to death! Yes said he, there is no<br/>
harm in it. In this the simple minded<br/>
hunter was doubtless correct, as the little<br/>
poison which was deadly when mingled<br/>
with living blood, becomes harmless when<br/>
taken into the stomach in connection with<br/>
the flesh whose life it has destroyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We saw in this princely hunter (for he<br/>
was a son of a chief) many interesting<br/>
characteristics of the tribe to which he be-<br/>
longs. He was quite a good looking<br/>
young man, about five feet six inches in<br/>
hight, having black and keen eyes, with a<br/>
sprightly mind, quickly comprehending<br/>
what we said to him, and promptly and<br/>
aptly replying to the same. His costume <br/>
was simply a p’anoong and a loose Jacket<br/>
I fancied that I could see in his mein some<br/>
likeness of Nimrod the great hunter. He<br/>
seemed to feel the utmost freedom in call-<br/>
ing all those wide extended jungles his<br/>
own.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In conversation with him, he said that<br/>
he had some weeks since, captured a re-<br/>
markable tortoise, having six legs, and<br/>
that it was still in his possession at home.<br/>
One of the gentlemen merchants, being<br/>
enthusiastically engaged in the honorable<br/>
service of procuring curiosities for Cam-<br/>
bridge College Mass, was delighted at the<br/>
intelligence and prompt in striking a bar-<br/>
gain, for the monster at almost any price<br/>
that? might be named. My readers may<br/>
perhaps hear of this creature again in con-<br/>
nection with a monster hog born with only<br/>
two legs, which we all had the pleasure of<br/>
seeing a few days before. Surely Siam is<br/>
wonderful for monstrosities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being about to leave, we made other ob-<br/>
servations touching the Hot Springs. The<br/>
water boils out of a bluish lime stone rock<br/>
in a fractured state. Never before had<br/>
we seen water more perfectly clear. When<br/>
cooled it was as agreeable to the taste<br/>
as the water of Petenburee river, with<br/>
which it ultimately commingles. An an-<br/>
alysis of a bottle of it has proved, that it<br/>
is entirely free from mineral properties, thus<br/>
cutting off all hope of its ever becoming a<br/>
fashionable resort for invalids. when Siam<br/>
shall have become not a whit behind what<br/>
England now is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We left the Springs about 4 o'clock p.<br/>
m. taking mainly the same track by which<br/>
we came. The beauty and sublimity of<br/>
our Father's handy-work in creation and<br/>
providence as manifested on the route, we<br/>
enjoyed even more than in the morning.<br/>
How true, thought we, are the words of the<br/>
Preacher-—"He hath made every thing<br/>
beautiful in his time." About midway<br/>
from our I m and the Springs, we came to<br/>
a place of general rendezvous for teamsters,<br/>
who come from the Laos villages 20 or 30<br/>
miles East of it, to barter for Sapanwood.<br/>
It appeared to be a market place for this<br/>
dye wood. It was charmingly homely to<br/>
see the oxen eating straw out of the carts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We arrived at our Karen camp a little<br/>
after sunset, and were very sorry to find<br/>
that our affable and most hospitable land-<br/>
lord, had been seized with a fever in our<br/>
absence, and could not come out to see us.<br/>
The very extraordinary exertions he had<br/>
made the day and night before, to entertain<br/>
us in a style compatible with our great<br/>
dignity, had evidently been too much for<br/>
his slender frame. Two of our party went up<br/>
to his house to visit him in his affliction, and<br/>
to express unto him our gratitude for all<br/>
the attention he had shown us, and to pre-<br/>
sent to him a little silver bonus besides.<br/>
Our amateur curiosity-seeker became par<br/>
ticularly interested in the earrings of the<br/>
chieftain's wife. One of them was a block<br/>
of red-wood an inch in diameter, and the<br/>
other two inches, each nearly an inch thick<br/>
and solid. They looked much like some<br/>
wooden snuff-boxes. Seeing the curiosity<br/>
they had awakened, the chief had them at<br/>
once slipped out of their living bands, as<br/>
one would slip out a file of letters from an<br/>
India-rubber belt, and gave them to the<br/>
gentleman most interested in them. If the<br/>
ship don't become an entire wreck in<br/>
which they are to be forwarded to the U.<br/>
S. A. those Karen earrings will doubtless<br/>
attract the gaze of thousands at Cambridge.<br/>
Museum The bands by which they are<br/>
kept in their places on the ears, are made<br/>
by puncturing the lobe of the ears when<br/>
quite young, and the orifices gradually<br/>
enlarged by forcible extension, until they<br/>
will admit without pain such huge blocks<br/>
of wood.  Well has it been said that "there<br/>
is no accounting for taste."  These most<br/>
ugly looking ear-drops dangling nearly to<br/>
the shoulders, are by the Karen women ac-<br/>
counted ornamental.  So may any thing in<br/>
this world become ornamental if it be in<br/>
fashion.  The males also have their ears<br/>
bored and the orifice extended quite as<br/>
much as the females; but instead of solid<br/>
blocks of red wood for ear-drops, they<br/>
make them carry sections of bamboo for<br/>
cigar cases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dress of the Chief's wife reminded<br/>
us of the coat ear-drops that was "without seam,<br/>
woven from the top throughout" and every <br/>
thread she wore was comprised in that <br/>
garment extending from the shoulders to the <br/>
knees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As our plan was laid to depart thence <br/>
the next morning at 1 o'clock, we took <br/>
leave of our host at his sick bed before <br/>
we retired to sleep.<br/>
March 16th. Faithful to our appoint-<br/>
ment, we arose at 1 o'clock, and taking a<br/>
little lunch, and a cup of hot tea, we all<br/>
mounted our ponies, determining that we<br/>
would reach Petchaburee, a distance of<br/>
about 35 miles, before 7 o'clock, and this<br/>
feat we actually accomplished. But O!<br/>
how wearied we were, long before we<br/>
reached our destination—especially the<br/>
writer, whose pony was the largest of all<br/>
the seven, and had never been trained to<br/>
any gait but a hard walk, a shocking trot,<br/>
and a terrible gallop.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Descendants of Royal Blood
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Descendants of royal blood, born <br/>
during the latter part of the past year, and the<br/>
early part of the current year .
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. On Thursday 3d. Nov. 1864 birth of a<br/>
princess, the daughter of Prince Nilratne <br/>
Krom mūn Alonkot Kichprijah, the 22nd<br/>
son of His Majesty the late King of Siam,<br/>
in the second reign of the present dynasty.<br/>
Prince N. is the seventh half brother of the<br/>
present King of Siam, and is Superintend-<br/>
ant of the mint and armory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. On Friday 25th Nov. 1864 birth of<br/>
a prince, the son of H. R. H. Prince Lam-<br/>
yong, the 12th son of His Majesty the late<br/>
King of Siam, in the third reign of the <br/>
present dynasty. This Prince has not been<br/>
employed by the government since the reign<br/>
of his father, but has been in retirement on<br/>
account of his character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. On Tuesday 19th Dec. 1864 birth of<br/>
a prince, the son of H. R. H. Prince Sing-<br/>
harah, the 15th son of His Majesty the late<br/>
King of Siam, in the third reign of the<br/>
present dynasty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. On Monday 5th March 1865, birth of<br/>
a princess, the daughter of the same Prince.<br/>
This prince has so many children, that he<br/>
is obliged to dispose of them to those<br/>
princes and princesses who have no offspring<br/>
of their own. This prince is now His<br/>
Majesty's Secretary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. On Saturday 14th Jan. 1865 birth of<br/>
a prince, the son of H. R. H. Prince Rong-<br/>
thong, the 17th son of His Majesty the late<br/>
vice, or second King of Siam, in the second<br/>
reign of the present dynasty. This Prince <br/>
is cousin to the present King, and is Su-<br/>
perintendant of gold smiths and jewelers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. On Saturday 15th April 1865 birth<br/>
of a prince, the son of H. R. H. Prince<br/>
Sankhadatt Khoon Naranujit, who was<br/>
born in 1789; and is now 76 years of age,<br/>
the 7th son of His Majesty the late vice, or<br/>
second King of Siam in the first reign of<br/>
the present dynasty, and he is now consider<br/>
ed as the uncle of the present King. Not-<br/>
withstanding his age the Prince is remark-<br/>
ably strong, and has the appearance of a<br/>
person in middle life. His full sister<br/>
Princess Duang Chandr is yet alive and is<br/>
now 82 years of age.<br/>
7. On Sunday 28th May 1865 birth of <br/>
a princess, the daughter of H. R. H. Prince <br/>
Pramote Krom mun Worachark, the 26th <br/>
Son of His Majesty the late King of Siam <br/>
in the second reign of the present dynasty, <br/>
and the eleventh half brother of the present <br/>
King, and Master of the Royal Household.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In accordance with Siamese royal custom <br/>
the birth of the descendants of royal blood, <br/>
must be registered annually, previous to the <br/>
payment of the annual salaries, to the gov-<br/>
ernment officials, &c. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The offspring of the sons and daughters <br/>
of the Sovereigns of Siam in any reign, <br/>
have the title of Their Highness, without <br/>
the prefix, Royal, that their parents have, <br/>
who are called in Siamese Chanfas, and <br/>
Phra Ong Chao, the paréts of the former <br/>
being both of royal blood, but of the latter <br/>
only one of the parents is of royal blood,<br/>
their children are called Mom Chaus. The <br/>
title of Royal Highness can be prefixed<br/>
to the names of uncles, aunts, brothers,<br/>
sisters, sons, and daughters of the Sovereigns<br/>
of Siam, but all others, whose fathers were<br/>
not Sovereigns of Siam, although they are<br/>
called princes and princesses, can only<br/>
have the word "Highness" prefixed to <br/>
their names, except where the title is con-<br/>
ferred by the Sovereign as a reward for some<br/>
special services. Descendants of Princes and<br/>
Princesses, Mom Chans, cannot be called<br/>
Chau, they have only the title of Mom, as<br/>
Mom Rajoday, &c. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a number of Cambodian Princes <br/>
and Princesses residing in Siam, who have<br/>
the title of Phra Ong Chau, but they are<br/>
considered by Siamese princes, as foreign<br/>
princes. From a remote period the Siam-<br/>
ese and Cambodians have adopted the cus-<br/>
tom of each other in the titles of royalty<br/>
and nobility, and now the titles of Som-<br/>
detch, Chau Phya, Phya, Phra, Hluang<br/>
(in Cambodian pronounciation having a<br/>
slight sound of H) Khoon, mun, &c. &c.<br/>
are common to both nations.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Amoy Jottings.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our jottings from Amoy are too amus-<br/>
ing to be allowed to lie over any longer, so <br/>
we proceed with them at once.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And first regarding the posture assumed<br/>
by the Baron de Meritens.  We are un-<br/>
der the conviction that however much his<br/>
services may be needed by the Chinese<br/>
Military authorities, and however effective<br/>
they may prove, he is taking a false step<br/>
in combining military with custom house<br/>
duties.  The French are naturally so zeal-<br/>
ous and active minded, so fond of fighting<br/>
and intelligent, that they are apt to put<br/>
themselves forward and to work them-<br/>
selves up in the employ of Oriental poten-<br/>
tates. But the system does not answer.<br/>
They generally manage to enable the <br/>
power whose cause they may espouse to<br/>
fall into their views and to become exces-<br/>
sively pacificious; in this state of mind<br/>
Oriental Potentates are very liable to quar-<br/>
rel with the British. The Gallic mercen-<br/>
ary always sticks to his colors, but as in-<br/>
variable, goes to the wall. He compels <br/>
John Bull, it is true, to equip a much <br/>
stronger force than would otherwise have<br/>
been necessary, but even so, John makes a<br/>
clean sweep when he is about it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What Power in India was there, that gal-<br/>
lant French adventurers did not assist to <br/>
repel the British! The native Princes be-<br/>
came elated at the result of their Gallic mer-<br/>
cenaries' handiwork, and relying on their<br/>
powers of resistance, gave the British just<br/>
cause of offence and became involved in war<br/>
which necessarily ended in their downfall.<br/>
But for the intervention of these French<br/>
adventurers, India would not now have<br/>
been British. Some of the Chiefs whose ter-<br/>
ritories we have annexed would have been <br/>
tributary, some would have been subsidis-<br/>
ed, and some would have been independ-<br/>
ent. The British would never have<br/>
dreamed of conquering India but for the<br/>
resistance which the Native princes were<br/>
enabled to make, through the knowledge<br/>
and instruction which they derived from<br/>
the French. John Bull was like a horse<br/>
—he did not know his own strength until<br/>
he was forced to learn it, and then, being<br/>
taught the lesson, he took full advantage of<br/>
it and never forgot it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We do not seek to enlarge upon this<br/>
topic. What we desire to lay down is;<br/>
that the enterprise and the pugnacity of<br/>
the French render them a dangerous race<br/>
in the East where British interests do the<br/>
most predominate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Monsieur Giquel for instance at Ningpo<br/>
was a very estimable man and a very gal-<br/>
lant fellow.  We think we are correct in<br/>
stating that he held a civil appointment in<br/>
the French service at Ningpo.  He became<br/>
excited by war's alarms—he grew exasper-<br/>
ated at the apathy of the Mandarins—he <br/>
felt like a war horse in the stable, and<br/>
taking the field be rendered the Mandarins<br/>
vast service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baron de Meritens is a man of more<br/>
calibre than Monsieur Giquel, but his im-<br/>
pulses are identical.  He receives the pay<br/>
of the Imperial Government in one capacity<br/>
and his feelings, revolt at seeing the inter-<br/>
ests of his employers sacrificed in another<br/>
capacity.  He deplores the apathy and the<br/>
impracticability of the Mandarins—-he sees<br/>
the Mace at the gate, and his seal overrides<br/>
its discretion.  He turns Customs cruisers<br/>
into vessels of war, and he illegally confis-<br/>
cates a foreign steamer that he may avail<br/>
himself of her gratuitous services as a cruiser<br/>
to the exclusive nomination of the French.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What next? To a military career; to<br/>
misunderstanding with the British, and<br/>
to the game of India played over again.<br/>
There is no controverting the fact. John <br/>
Bull in the east is a most testy fellow—-he<br/>
has enormous interests in that quarter—-<br/>
and he will never submit to dictation from<br/>
the French, who really have next to no real<br/>
interests at all with China. True they buy<br/>
a little Silk, but they do the business with<br/>
British capital through British houses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Besides, we submit that nothing can save<br/>
the Mandarins from destruction except a re-<br/>
liance on their own resources for slavation.<br/>
So long as they think the an-Kwei will<br/>
step in and save them from utter destruction,<br/>
so long will they continue apathetic fatalists.<br/>
But let them once know that they have to<br/>
work their own salvation or to perish, and<br/>
we may see an improved state of affairs.<br/>
That they are deeply inculcated with the<br/>
ideas that foreigners will intercede to save<br/>
them, we have no doubt whatever: that this<br/>
idea is greatly detrimental to the interests<br/>
of the Imperial Government we submit there<br/>
is no question. Such being admitted, the<br/>
gallant and devoted service of such spirits<br/>
as Monsieur Giquel and the Baron de Mer-<br/>
itens certainly tend to fortify the detrimen-<br/>
tal ideas on the Mandarin mind, and to<br/>
encourage that hope which is based on<br/>
fatalism and which inducing apathy, and<br/>
nurturing imbecility points to destruction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With these remarks we leave our jut-<br/>
tings for a future day—-Daily Press.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"A BIG THING."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A friend in Pittsburg has sent us a pam-<br/>
phlet, published in that city, entitled the <br/>
prospectus of "The Munchausen Philoso-<br/>
pher's Stone and Gull Creek Consolidated <br/>
Oil Company." We make a few extracts, <br/>
and doubt not our readers will be of our cor-<br/>
respondent's opinion, that the company is a<br/>
"big thing of its kind," and that there is<br/>
some fun as well as smoke in Pittsburg. As<br/>
Mr. Squeers remarked, "here's richness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Capital Stock, $4,000,000,000; Working<br/>
Capital, $47,50; 4,000 Shares, $1,000,000<br/>
each. Dividends semi-daily (Sundays ex-<br/>
cepted.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TERRITORY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seven Hundred and Fifty-three Million <br/>
Acres in fee simple, and the exclusive right <br/>
to bore on the thirtieth part of an acre on<br/>
Gull Creek, (Coal privilege on this lease.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DIRECTORS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
S. W. Indle, President; Hon. R. Ascal, <br/>
Vice President; D. Faulter, Treasurer; S. <br/>
Teal, Secretary; Oily Gammon, Legal Ad-<br/>
viser; John Law, Chief Manager; Lemuel <br/>
Gulliver, Hon. C. Heat, Baron Munchausen, <br/>
Sir John Mandeville, M. Rabelais, S. Kinner, <br/>
Fernand Juan Mendez Pinto, Sinbad T. H. <br/>
R. Sailor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This company, incorporated under the <br/>
laws of the State of Verdancy, (vide Pam-<br/>
phlet Laws 1873, page 6,061), having pur-<br/>
chased and consolidated tracts amounting <br/>
in the aggregate to seven hundred and fifty.<br/>
three million acres in fee simple, are about <br/>
to open their subscription books for a lim-<br/>
ited number of shares.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As a safe paying and permanent invest-<br/>
ment, it is perhaps the best in the world; <br/>
and owing to the small amount of the capi-<br/>
tal, for speculation, the inducements are <br/>
unequalled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Directors are men of undoubted in-<br/>
tegrity, as a careful examination of their <br/>
names will show. They will devote their <br/>
best judgment and energy to the manage-<br/>
ment of the affairs of the company, and to <br/>
the care and safe-keeping of the money of <br/>
the stockholders. As an evidence of their <br/>
disinterestedness, it need only be stated that <br/>
the lands were sold by them to the Com-<br/>
pany at only 7,500 per cent. in advance of <br/>
the price they originally paid, and they are <br/>
not desirous of occupying the position of<br/>
Directors, after they have disposed of their<br/>
stock to the best advantage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lands of the company are easily ac-<br/>
cessible, and may be reached in a few years<br/>
by a line of balloons recently established by<br/>
the company. It is the earnest desire of the<br/>
Directors, that all persons disposed to sub-<br/>
scribe for stock, shall visit and examine the<br/>
lands themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE MUNCHAUSEN TRACT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the largest and best developed<br/>
tract owned by the company. The large<br/>
shaft on this tract was sunk to the depth of<br/>
16,000 011 feet 3-10 inches. In sinking<br/>
the shaft, a careful record was kept of the<br/>
different strata.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few extracts will show the wonderful<br/>
resources of the tract: "April 1st, at the<br/>
depth of 18 1-3 feet, a vein of 25 feet thick<br/>
of No. 1 cooking Butter." This butter is<br/>
of the highest rank. In can be found on the <br/>
tables of all the hotels on this continent. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Immediately succeeding, a vein of No. <br/>
6 Lard, based upon a vein of Shoemaker's <br/>
Wax, 4 1-2 feet thick," Government shoe <br/>
contractors use this instead of glue in fast-<br/>
ening the soles of army shoes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"On the following Wednesday, at 2 P. <br/>
M., struck a vein XXX Ale. This is thrown <br/>
out in half-barrels, with revenue officer's re-<br/>
ceipt for the tax on the ale; and also re-<br/>
ceipts accompanying each barrel, for the in-<br/>
come tax of any person who drinks a glass<br/>
of it. As the barrels have not to be return-<br/>
ed, nothing ails this product of the well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The next day, a large vein of Quinine." <br/>
This is generally administered without <br/>
charge to any of the Stockholders seized <br/>
with fever, or shaky about the value of <br/>
their shares.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some distance below, we struck a vein of <br/>
Substitutes. Each one had his bounty-<br/>
money in his pocket, with a certificate that<br/>
he was a veteran, and would not desert.—-<br/>
They have not voted, and may be consider-<br/>
ed aliens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These wells do not flow on Sunday, which<br/>
is abundant testimony of the high moral<br/>
tone observed in the management of this<br/>
company.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is a list of articles struck:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cooking Butter-—XXX Ale-—Cod Liver<br/>
Oil-—Billy Patterson-—Quinine-—Sardines-—<br/>
Turtle Soup-—Lottery Tickets-—Bear's Oil<br/>
—For Higher Wages-—Substitutes-—Bounty<br/>
Money-—Greenbacks-—Peace Proposition—-<br/>
Milk of Human Kindness-—Oil-—A Leak.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE MOONSHINE TRACT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The land on this tract is heavily timbered,<br/>
with Mahogany, Rosewood, Ebony, San-<br/>
dalwood, Nightblooming Cereus, Centnry<br/>
Plants, and other varieties, suitable for<br/>
building purposes, and the manufacture of<br/>
hermetically sealed barrels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Upon this land, and along the banks of<br/>
Cheat River, were found some diamonds of<br/>
the first water.  The specimen on exhibi-<br/>
tion at the office is a large and splendid<br/>
jewel, which far exceeds in lustre the<br/>
famous Kohinoor, or any other diamond<br/>
since the great Mogul was cut.  The ground<br/>
was so rich in precious stones, that the Sur-<br/>
veyor who first laid it out, discovered—-ere<br/>
he had half completed his survey—-that he<br/>
had a large carbuncle on his neck.  
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most remarkable discovery made<br/>
was that of an antique copper coin, with<br/>
heads on both sides; also, some loaded<br/>
dice, marked cards, and lottery tickets.<br/>
These are all convincing proofs that Oil<br/>
Companies must have been known in the<br/>
remottest ages of antiquity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE ANNIAS AND SAPPHIRA TRACT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This, though a small tract, embracing<br/>
only 65,000,000 acres, is worthy of a careful<br/>
examination by all who desire to invest in<br/>
the stock of the Company.  The first strike<br/>
was a large vein of originators of oil<br/>
schemes.  Each one had a prospectus con-<br/>
taining an accurate description of the pro-<br/>
perty, and stating what percentage per<br/>
month each Company would pay from its<br/>
start.  Here also was fonnd a correct list<br/>
the incomes of all persons not connected <br/>
with the Company.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Immediately succeeding was a vein of<br/>
Lawyers.  This was an unfortunate strike,<br/>
and far from profitable.  They claimed that<br/>
as they were part of the land, they had a<br/>
fee in it.  Our learned legal adviser con-<br/>
tended, on the trial, that they had not<br/>
been in possession of the surface, or soil, for<br/>
twenty one years, they had no title; and<br/>
further, that as the vein immediately under<br/>
them was Brimstone, it was evident that<br/>
they were more than half-way down, and<br/>
should go to the other side.  The Judges in<br/>
this case decided in favor of both parties<br/>
and advised a compromise.  This was done<br/>
in the usual manner.  The attorneys of the<br/>
Company took five-ninths, and the other<br/>
side took five-ninths, leaving the balance of<br/>
the property for the Company.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CHINA OR HADES TRACT,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole of this magnificent tract has<br/>
been, since its survey, the wonder of the<br/>
world. Every acre is known to be rich in<br/>
Tea of the most excellent quality. On the<br/>
30th of February last, at 3 A. M., after a<br/>
great deal of gas from each of the seven-<br/>
teen thousand wells, there was thrown out<br/>
per hour, 5,783 chests of Young Hyson,<br/>
Souchoong, Gunpowder, Pennyroyal and<br/>
Beef Tea, (also, T rail.) Tariff duties paid.<br/>
Directions how to imitate tea and coffee, and<br/>
an economical method of supplying wash-<br/>
erwomen and old maids. (It is due to the<br/>
Company to state that this is not the tea<br/>
thrown overboard in Boston harbor.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
GULLIVER AND RHOROACK TRACT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This tract embraces 65,000 acres of arable<br/>
land, and was laid out by an experienced <br/>
and Competent Patagonian engineer. There<br/>
are sixty-three hundred and fifteen wells,<br/>
now producing, on each acre, whose average<br/>
depth is 49,985 feet, being down to the very<br/>
edge of the tertiary formation, and passing<br/>
through precious metals—-platina, bismuth,<br/>
native gold, corn-starch, fish hooks, verdi-<br/>
gris, pewter-mugs, golden syrup, pearlash,<br/>
hard boiled eggs and lampblack—-all of<br/>
which are being taken out by lateral rail<br/>
roads, from the projecting surface of each<br/>
vein, and are now sold at highest prices,<br/>
thereby yielding an incalculable profit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The flow of Oil from all the wells on this<br/>
tract is so enormous, that it was found im-<br/>
possible to provide tanks; and, in conse-<br/>
quence the Directors have been obliged to<br/>
purchase and drain Lake Superior, and use<br/>
it as a reservoir.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B.—There must be no delay in sub-<br/>
scribing, as our estimable Treasurer, D.<br/>
Fraulter, Esq., is anxious to proceed at once<br/>
to Europe or Australia, as his labors in be-<br/>
half of the Company have impaired his <br/>
health. He will travel incog., as he wishes<br/>
to avoid notoriety, and see that no one de-<br/>
prives him of the money of the Company.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Troy Daily.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BIRTHS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 5th Inst. The wife of S. J. B.<br/>
Ames, Esq. Com. of Police, of a daughter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 11th Inst. The wife of Dr. J.<br/>
Campbell R. N. of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Nuisance.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not long since a gentleman on walking<br/>
through the Sampeng bazar, saw a corpse<br/>
stretched by the side of the walk, having<br/>
nothing but a very small peice of mat<br/>
thrown over it, leaving the head and legs<br/>
exposed to view. How long it had lain<br/>
there it is hard to say. Seated near the<br/>
corpse were two men begging money to<br/>
buy wood to burn it. It was about 9<br/>
o'clock A. M. and very hot and the stench<br/>
from the corpse was sickening. What it<br/>
would be at noon it is hard to say.  It is<br/>
said the Police have no power to interfere<br/>
in such matters.  It is time however that<br/>
some one would interfere and put a stop to<br/>
such exhibitions as they are of frequent oc-<br/>
currence.  It is an old custom and if it can't<br/>
be changed, we think some other place<br/>
should be chosen than just by the side of<br/>
the thoroughfare, where every person has to<br/>
pass along.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Counterfeiters.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some two weeks ago a Chinaman came<br/>
and reported that he knew of a place where<br/>
counterfeiting was carried on, and offered<br/>
for a certain sum to conduct a police force<br/>
to the place.  He conducted them to a<br/>
place in the Sampang near Wat Yuan, where<br/>
they found a Tachue Chinaman engaged<br/>
counterfeiting the common lead cents<br/>
or ats used in market.  His mould was<br/>
rather an ingenious affair made of chalk.<br/>
It consists of a small mould in which is<br/>
cut the impression for one of the ats. To<br/>
fit in that is a small stamp with the impres-<br/>
sion for the other side of the ats. In the<br/>
mould there is a small hole for the lead to be<br/>
poured in. They found over 350 ats in<br/>
his possession probable the work of part<br/>
of a day. Two other Chinamen engaged<br/>
distributing them were also arrested. The<br/>
ots are very much like the genuine except-<br/>
ing a small defect on one edge where the<br/>
hole is in the mould for the lead to be<br/>
poured in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fire.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A very destructive fire broke out on the<br/>
afternoon of the 11th inst. on the river<br/>
bank in the rear of the dock of Chow Paya<br/>
Bodin. There was a breeze from the S. W.<br/>
which carried the fire rapidly back towards<br/>
the new road, and crossing it burning as<br/>
far as there was any thing combustible to<br/>
burn. It followed the new canal around,<br/>
stopping at the bridge near Poh Toh's<br/>
building. Mr. Ames arrived with a party<br/>
of police, with fire buckets, &c, who were<br/>
instrumental in preventing the fire from<br/>
reaching a bamboo building adjoining.<br/>
Had the flames reached that building, Poh<br/>
Toh's buildings would certainly have gone<br/>
too. It is said the police deserve great cred-<br/>
it for the manner in which they went to<br/>
work, and it also shows the necessity of<br/>
forming a police station in that quarter.<br/>
Had there been such a force there, much<br/>
more assistance might have been given and<br/>
property saved. About sixty nine houses<br/>
in all were burnt. The principle European<br/>
sufferers are Messers Dyer & Co. of the<br/>
Oriental Hotel, as that establishment and<br/>
almost every thing belonging to it, was<br/>
destroyed. We learn however that Measure<br/>
Dyer & Co. have secured a floating house<br/>
and intend to continue business.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the pilots also who had houses<br/>
in that neighborhood were burnt out, losing<br/>
nearly every thing they had. Capt. W.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_8_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
West was also badly burnt, being asleep in a<br/>
room and was not rescued until the flames<br/>
had already reached where he was, when<br/>
taken out he was plunged into the canal.<br/>
The fire was the result of carelessness. It<br/>
is said that a woman had been cooking<br/>
rice and did not extinguish the fire, but<br/>
went to the river to bathe, and while bath-<br/>
ing the fire caught the house.  Like all<br/>
fires it collected a great crowd, many of<br/>
whom no doubt 'came for plunder, and<br/>
some were detected in plundering goods<br/>
which had been saved from the fire, and<br/>
they were taken to the police station.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_8_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PUBLIC AUCTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday the 22d. day of<br/>
July, prox. at 11. A. M. in re<br/>
Estate of C. G. ALLEN Bankrupt,<br/>
will be sold without reserve, the<br/>
undermentioned Steamers and<br/>
Barges. All and each, with their<br/>
Tackle, Apparel, and Furniture<br/>
complete, as they now stand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The paddle wheel Steamer "Fai-<br/>
ry" of 150 Tons Reg. or therea-<br/>
bouts, Length 120 feet, breadth of<br/>
beam 16 feet, depth of hold 6 feet<br/>
Engines, double oscillating, 40<br/>
horse-power nominal; in complete<br/>
working order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also Barges No. 1 and No. 2<br/>
carrying capacity 3,000 pls each.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also will be sold the Tug Steam-<br/>
er "JACK WATERS" of 112 Tons<br/>
or thereabouts, Length 93 feet,<br/>
breadth of beam 16 feet. depth of<br/>
hold 8½ feet. Engines, propeller,<br/>
of 30 horse-power, nominal; High<br/>
pressure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also the Barges or Lighters,<br/>
"Concha" of 1250 piculs capacity,<br/>
"Coquille" 1250 piculs, "D'Al-<br/>
meida" 1600 piculs. "Industry" <br/>
2600 piculs, and "Enterprise" <br/>
3150 piculs. All Teak built and<br/>
in good order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For Terms of sale, Inventory,<br/>
or further particulars, apply to<br/>
F. Blake Esq. or to the Auction-<br/>
eers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
Auctioneers.
Bangkok June 28th 1865 (cf)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_9_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoining the<br/>
premises of the "Borneo Company Limited," and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 P. M. under the supervision of Prof. C. Hewetson<br/>
for the purpose of practicing Church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the evening of July 1st, a China-<br/>
man was attacked in Sampeng, by two or <br/>
more Siamese who undertook to rob him.<br/>
The Chinaman roared lustily, and a police-<br/>
man immediately ran to his assistance, and<br/>
succeeded in capturing one of the gang<br/>
whilst running off: upon which another of<br/>
the gang gave the policeman, who was<br/>
struggling with his prisoner, a severe blow<br/>
across the forehead with a hatchet. An-<br/>
other policeman arrived in time to secure<br/>
the one who struck the blow, but the first<br/>
prisoner escaped. He has since been ar-<br/>
rested and both have suffered the penalty<br/>
of the law. The policeman was not very<br/>
dangerously cut and is recovering. He ap-<br/>
pears to be unfortunate, having had his nose<br/>
cut nearly off, some time since by, some<br/>
Germans, whilst he was trying to quell a<br/>
disturbance at a house of ill fame.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A brutal attempt at assassination occur-<br/>
red a few days ago. A lad aged about 14<br/>
years, was employed on board the pilot<br/>
Schooner. He was enticed by some per-<br/>
sons to go ashore, and whilst there was<br/>
stabbed, the knife barely escaping his heart.<br/>
The assassin has escaped, but a man and<br/>
woman who were with and lent him the<br/>
knife, have been arrested. The cause of the<br/>
act has not yet been ascertained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that Ah Hoy, alias Sam<br/>
the China Captain of the Schooner "Hawk"<br/>
who was arrested on a charge of stealing a<br/>
chest containing 3000 dollars more, or less,<br/>
from the wreck, has escaped from the Brit-<br/>
ish Consulate jail by removing the bars<br/>
of the window.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Birth-day Festival.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The celebration of the fifty seventh birth<br/>
day of H. R. H. KROM LOANG WONGSA, on<br/>
the evening of the 10th inst, was attended<br/>
by nearly all the Foreign Consular officials<br/>
and assistants, with a full representation of<br/>
all the Foreign Merchants, and the Roman<br/>
Catholic, and Protestant Missionaries. The<br/>
number of guests was about forty. The<br/>
table was well arranged and tastefully deco-<br/>
rated. But it contained an unusual small<br/>
variety of viands and fruits, as the market<br/>
in Bangkok at the time was very uncom-<br/>
monly meagre. What was wanting in eatables,<br/>
the wine bibber could gladly say, was more<br/>
than made up in drinks, of what quality<br/>
we cannot say; but judging from the free<br/>
use of them by some they must have tasted<br/>
well. We were happy to notice among the<br/>
officials and others, some noble advocates<br/>
of the transcendent excellency at dinner<br/>
parties of the use of Heaven's bright water,<br/>
which never makes a man silly or ugly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
French in Cochin China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 96)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The employment of a second force, that<br/>
of Colonization, has it been energetic? Have<br/>
we adopted wise measures? Have we in-<br/>
vited capitalists, and laboring men into our<br/>
new possessions? Have we opened out com-<br/>
merce and industry so as to show our new<br/>
subjects the superiority of our power and<br/>
civilization. The word colonization ought<br/>
to be taken in those days in a different<br/>
sense to that of the preceding centuries.<br/>
It does not imply those acts of violence and<br/>
injustice to which resource was had, to give<br/>
quick and profitable returns to the mother<br/>
country, from the territories bought or<br/>
obtained by conquest in distant parts. No<br/>
European nation of our days would use<br/>
force even to the most barbarous people to<br/>
expel them from the soil they possessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our enterprise in Cochin China ought to<br/>
succeed by economical means, which do not<br/>
repudiate the principles of justice and hu-<br/>
manity. We ought to offer advantages to<br/>
capitalists and laborers, to resort to our<br/>
new possessions for their own benefit, and<br/>
the interest of France. In this point of<br/>
view, we regret that our Government is<br/>
more occupied in organising receipts of re-<br/>
venue, than in looking to the benefit of the<br/>
colony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our administration ought not to forget,<br/>
if they wish to make much of Cochin China,<br/>
that they ought to inspire liberal principles,<br/>
and to admit in our ports foreign flags free<br/>
of duties, and receive laborers and cap-<br/>
italists from every country whatever, and<br/>
give them lands without national distinct-<br/>
tion, viewing in all who come precious<br/>
auxiliaries; and denying to no person to<br/>
co-operate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is to the freedom of their ports that<br/>
Singapore, and Aden have become in a few<br/>
years, the one an entrepot of the commerce<br/>
of Indo-China, the other of the Red Sea,<br/>
and they have become the central points<br/>
from which merchant ships fill these seas.<br/>
If adopted at Saigon this system would<br/>
produce the same effect. Being at the mouth<br/>
of two rivers the Dormay and the Cambodia,<br/>
which brings in the produce of the interior,<br/>
and fifteen leagues from the sea, it opens<br/>
an unlimited field for exportation. Saigon<br/>
is called upon as an immense commercial<br/>
place, to dispute with Singapore her superm-<br/>
acy in the far East. The English, the<br/>
American, the Dutch, and the Spaniard<br/>
will crowd to it, bringing with them the<br/>
activity and ability of their nations, which<br/>
will aid us in rendering our new possessions<br/>
a market in this central position to the<br/>
westward of China, which is to this day<br/>
unexplored by Europeans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The geographical position of France and <br/>
the sedentary habits of her people, do not<br/>
allow her to trust to these resources to at-<br/>
tain such results, have we not therefore<br/>
means? We find in our own organized ad-<br/>
ministration, means which are unknown in<br/>
many other countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To carry out this antagonist, it will be <br/>
necessary to form at Saigon a company of<br/>
colonists composed of Frenchmen, who <br/>
would use their influence amongst parties<br/>
and capitalists to whom we have given free <br/>
access. But we have motives of a different<br/>
kind to recommend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our administration reduced to its own <br/>
resources, are incapable of giving a lively<br/>
impulse to the development of the country, <br/>
we are obliged to keep within the bounds<br/>
of our resources, which the balance of the <br/>
Budget obliges the Government to measure<br/>
with a rigorous parsimony. A company on <br/>
the contrary disposes of a large capital which<br/>
it augments by its credit, as useful oper-<br/>
ations become necessary, stimulated by its<br/>
interests it enlarges its sphere and pushes <br/>
on its efforts, laying the foundation for<br/>
future prosperity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Taking for our guide what the English<br/>
have done in New Zealand, by forming a<br/>
company, and what the Dutch did forty years<br/>
ago, by giving a monopoly to a company<br/>
called the Matreopy, their successes ought<br/>
to be an example for France. The com-<br/>
pany thus formed would advance to the<br/>
Annamites funds to cover the expense of<br/>
cultivation, and to employ more laborers<br/>
to open out the immense extent of uncult-<br/>
vated lands, they would furnish steam en-<br/>
gines for manufacturing sugar. Mills for<br/>
making mustard oil, and husking rice.<br/>
With those industrial means, the company<br/>
would always be able to purchase the pro-<br/>
duce at lower rates. Thus there would<br/>
always be a permanent purchaser of the<br/>
produce of the soil, who would send it to<br/>
all parts of the globe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the Annamite system the<br/>
forests belongs to the state, and should not <br/>
be left to the mercy of speculators, their <br/>
management should be regular. The forests <br/>
of teak and other timbers should not be left <br/>
unprotected. The company might under-<br/>
take this charge under certain fixed con-<br/>
ditions. These views have been submitted <br/>
to Government by several projectors, for the<br/>
formation of a company, to whom might be<br/>
confide? the management of this possession.<br/>
Unfortunately for the present there is no<br/>
thought of realizing such a programe, the<br/>
present absorbing question is of a different<br/>
nature, which if resolved upon would have<br/>
different results and upset all our dreams.<br/>
In closing this essay we ought to state the<br/>
sudden changes our policy is undergoing in<br/>
Cochin China.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It ought to be remembered that the<br/>
treaty of the 5th June 1863 was reluctant-<br/>
ly signed by the King of Annam. After<br/>
the first answer, which Admiral Bonard<br/>
did not consider satisfactory, he was obliged<br/>
to send the "Forhin" to Hué, and signify<br/>
to the King Tu-duc, that if he seriously<br/>
wished for peace, he ought not to delay ask-<br/>
ing for it, and also pay down 100,000<br/>
ligatures (about 100,000 francs) towards<br/>
the expenses of the war, if not, hostilities<br/>
should be recommenced with greater vigor.<br/>
This manace would not have been sufficient<br/>
if he had not at the same time had to put<br/>
down the revolt of Tonquin. In spite of<br/>
the habitual dissimulation of the Mandarins<br/>
who tried to conceal their real sentiments,<br/>
all those who accompanied Admiral Bonard<br/>
to the Court of Hué for the exchange of<br/>
the ratification, returned with the impres-<br/>
sion that the Annamites considered the<br/>
treaty as ephemeral, as a truce which they<br/>
would throw off on the first occasion. The<br/>
manner in which Tu-duc insisted upon<br/>
sending an ambassador to the Emperor in<br/>
France confirmed these suspicions, and from<br/>
that time people talked of the possibility of<br/>
the Annamite Government obtaining the<br/>
restitution of the ceded provinces by pay-<br/>
ing the indemnity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few months after the signature of the<br/>
treaty, an Annamite embassy arrived at<br/>
Paris. They did not appear in Oriental<br/>
pomp, they were modest in manner, and<br/>
appeared humiliated rather than proud of<br/>
their mission. During their stay in the<br/>
capital, they occupied their thoughts and<br/>
regarded moveably, our monuments, our<br/>
riches, our army and all that was before<br/>
the Power of France. Silent and<br/>
reserved, it was apparent that they had<br/>
other views, then of coming to pay homage<br/>
to the Emperor of the French, and to re-<br/>
new in the name of their King the engage-<br/>
ments of friendship, and peace as recorded<br/>
in the Hué treaty. They had confiden-<br/>
tial meetings with the Emperor and with<br/>
the Foreign Minister. What proposals did<br/>
they make? What assurances did they get<br/>
in answer to their overtures? We do not<br/>
pretend to know, but from that moment it<br/>
was noised abroad to the public, that the<br/>
Annamite ambassadors had opened negoti-<br/>
ations for the restoration of the three prov-<br/>
ing in Lower Cochin China which we oc-<br/>
cupied. Those that heard it would not<br/>
believe such an unlikely act possible. The<br/>
Annamite ambassadors returned and the<br/>
people were persuaded that if they did as <br/>
above stated it was more to show an honor-<br/>
able national feeling before their conquerors <br/>
than with a hope of succeeding.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_10_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 29TH JUNE TO 18TH JULY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>5</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assault and battery.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Siamese deserters.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Breach of trust.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fugitive slave.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Robbery of 40 pieces of cloth.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Fighting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Assaulting a pregnant woman.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Resisting the police in the</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>execution of their duty.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td>Cutting and wounding a pol</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="3"></td>
 <td>ice officer.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_10_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—One of your most re-<br/>
spectable subscribers was heard to say yes-<br/>
terday—-"What, have you not got through<br/>
with the Fourth of July? I thought that<br/>
was all over long ago." He has got full<br/>
enough of that subject because he is an<br/>
Englishman. But, knowing that he and<br/>
all his countrymen would delight to dwell<br/>
long on the subject of such a Fourth if<br/>
they were placed in the circumstances of<br/>
Americans, I will venture to say a little<br/>
more about the evening of that day, and<br/>
thus obey the "golden rule."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Blake's dwelling, though small, was<br/>
made, on that evening, to look like a delight-<br/>
ful arcade. The wreaths of green bushes,<br/>
variegated with the sweetest flowers were<br/>
tastefully formed and arranged. The drap-<br/>
ing of the doors and windows, and all<br/>
the walls of the outer hall with a variety<br/>
of the flags of all nations had the effect<br/>
for which it was designed. There was an<br/>
unusual proportion of black among the<br/>
drapery, which was a suitable emblem of<br/>
mourning on' that extraordinary occasion<br/>
for the tragical departure of "our great<br/>
and good Abraham Lincoln."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was quite awed while I stood in the<br/>
inner-hall before supper, and looked at a<br/>
few of the names, of the great cloud of Re-<br/>
volutionary worthies, civil, military and<br/>
naval, as also at the names of many of our<br/>
late and present noble champions, and saw<br/>
them battling still more gloriously for the<br/>
crushing of that terrible slavacrocy, and<br/>
the emancipation of her millions of the<br/>
whites and the blacks. Their names were<br/>
neatly printed in large letters on white<br/>
muslin and hung all around the room. At<br/>
one end of the hall I read the ever dear and<br/>
venerable name George Washington, and<br/>
at the other the no less endearing one<br/>
ABRAHAM LINCOLN. This was touchingly<br/>
draped in black.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the borders of the white table cloth<br/>
were inscribed in large letters with waving<br/>
lines, the names of the chief battle fields in<br/>
that Greatest of mortal conflicts with human<br/>
armor, the world has ever known. At one<br/>
end of the table cloth stood Richmond with<br/>
the name LINCOLN on the wall by it. At<br/>
the end was written Charleston with the<br/>
name WASHINGTON corresponding to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were two lines of names extending<br/>
around the hall. The lower comprised a<br/>
choice selection from the great army of<br/>
statesmen and warriors of—76. On the up-<br/>
per tier, indicating a great advance upward<br/>
from the beginning of our nationality, and<br/>
the growth of a power able to annihilate the<br/>
monster SLAVERY, were the names of Lin-<br/>
coln, Scott, Halleck, Grant, Sherman,<br/>
Fremont, Foote, Rosecrans, Farragut, But-<br/>
ler, Warren, Thomas, Meade, Sheridan,<br/>
and many others whose deeds of valor will,<br/>
I doubt not, shine in the galaxy of our na-<br/>
tional history as long as time shall last.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was quite exhilarating to an American,<br/>
and that too without the aid of wine, to<br/>
stand at that supper table in the dead of<br/>
night as a servant of one of the most bril-<br/>
liant parties of European and American<br/>
ladies Bangkok had ever before witnessed,<br/>
and fancy himself assembled with them a-<br/>
mong those battle fields which are destined<br/>
to arise Phoenix-like from their present<br/>
desolation, being forever freed from the<br/>
blight of slavery, and glorying in the Re-<br/>
publican armies that had so quickly and<br/>
thoroughly emancipated them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was another view in that inner<br/>
hall more touching than any other. It was<br/>
the sight of some 30 or more photographs<br/>
of American generals and statesmen, arran-<br/>
ged in an oval form on one side of the wall.<br/>
In the centre of this group was a charming<br/>
picture of our late and much lamented<br/>
Prest. Lincoln. This was skillfully draped<br/>
by itself, whilst the whole group was<br/>
artistically wreathed with leaves and flow-<br/>
ers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was a sober mellow tone in all<br/>
the festivities of the evening, which may<br/>
have been imparted by that and other<br/>
manifestations of the saviour of our coun-<br/>
try so suddenly taken from us to a higher<br/>
sphere of influence and glory. *
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_10_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We have reliable information that. His <br/>
Majesty the King, will not remove the re-<br/>
striction to the exportation of rice, until it <br/>
is certain that a fair crop will be gathered <br/>
at the close of the season.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_10_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A man that will not do well in his pre-<br/>
sent place because he longs to be higher, is<br/>
fit to be neither where he is nor yet above it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-05-01_8_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
KYAM ALI, DECEASED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice it hereby given, that<br/>
all creditors and other persons,<br/>
having claims or demands a-<br/>
gainst the estate of Kyam Ali,<br/>
Merchant, late of Bangkok,<br/>
Siam, who died, on the 26th<br/>
of February last, intestate, are<br/>
hereby required to send the<br/>
particulars in writing of their<br/>
claims to the undersigned the<br/>
administrator, on or before the<br/>
31st day of July next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which day the said<br/>
administrator will proceed to<br/>
distribute the estate and effects<br/>
of the said deceased among the<br/>
parties entitled thereto, having<br/>
regard only to such claims of<br/>
which he shall then have had<br/>
notice.<br/>
Dated at the British Consulate<br/>
Bangkok, Siam Mar. 14th 1856.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(s. d.) Thomas George Knox
H, B, M, Consul
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-06-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Towing and Lightering.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Until further notice, all orders for<br/>
Towing and Lightering with the<br/>
Steamers "Jack Waters" and "Fairy"<br/>
with the Barges, will receive attention
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-07-15_12_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="14" valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. JULY 15TH 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r76">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r83">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Sir R. Peel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">344</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Doesborough</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Spanduman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Haberkost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Amelie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Gramer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">679</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">French Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ortin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">838</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Verdun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Kupperman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Han. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">B. Von H. Brock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Rossum</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Diamond City</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Lubick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siam<span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Tien Sing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Brit. Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r88">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amelie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gramer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">679</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bahnnet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bessie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jones</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cardiff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Euzare</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gotlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Apr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Düeppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ho Kee Pek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Klindt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">De Castro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hawk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">162</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sawn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chosua Kwong Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gerdes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Leyser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mouller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">315</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Phya Chedock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Moon Light</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Gorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">647</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Puh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Swee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Holinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">786</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Pollux</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Blok</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">417</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Postiljon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greve</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Leet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Khean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sophin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Himson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sir R. Peel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">344</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">630</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Luang Me Cree</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">90</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Pulsakie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Young May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
