---
linkTitle: 'September 16th, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 16th, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 16th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 17
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 16TH 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 17</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok September 16th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since our last issue we have been favored<br/>
with another short visit from the French<br/>
gun boat "Mitraille." The object of her<br/>
visit was to receive Mons. Anberet H. I. M.<br/>
Consul at this place, who has had leave of<br/>
absence from his government to make a visit<br/>
home. Mons. Sr Ora Jullien is acting<br/>
Consul at present.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is greatly to be regretted that Mons.<br/>
Aubaret just before leaving needlessly pre-<br/>
cipitated himself into another quarrel with<br/>
the Siamese government, and left full of<br/>
animosity towards His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will be remembered that a short time<br/>
since we fought some battles with that<br/>
functionary for the Siamese, in reference<br/>
to the publication of the Treaty concluded<br/>
between France and Siam in regard to<br/>
Cambodia. But instead of being hand-<br/>
somely rewarded for our valour by the<br/>
Siamese as we should have been, we were<br/>
greatly blamed for what we had done, and<br/>
even threatened with suppression. We had<br/>
begun to hope, however, that the difficulties<br/>
were all past, and that things would hence-<br/>
forth move along smoothly, when suddenly<br/>
this new difficulty breaks out. Mons.<br/>
Aubaret is in this instance so manifestly<br/>
in the fault that we cannot refrain from<br/>
again espousing the cause of government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The information we have upon this sub-<br/>
ject comes from so many and various sour-<br/>
ces that it must in the main be true. The<br/>
affair is resolved into three distinct and se-<br/>
parate scenes which would afford ample<br/>
material for a drama had any one the<br/>
ability and disposition to take it up. It<br/>
appears that the Rev. John Martin a Roman<br/>
Catholic Missionary and pastor of Concep-<br/>
tion Church, Bangkok, becomes involved in<br/>
a quarrel with one of his parishioners Phya<br/>
Wisate, a subject of Siam and chief man<br/>
among the Cambodian Catholics here. The<br/>
French Consul petitioned His Majesty, the<br/>
Supreme King of Siam to depose Pha Wisate<br/>
and elevate Mons, Lamache a French sub-<br/>
ject in His Majesty's employ to a position of<br/>
higher rank in the military department. The<br/>
reasons assigned for these changes were the re-<br/>
ported bad character of the incumbent Phya<br/>
Wisate, and that the Consul for France<br/>
knew that His Majesty the Emperor of the<br/>
France would be extremely gratified by the<br/>
promotion of Mons Lamache, and that the<br/>
matter should be consummated before the<br/>
Consul left for France. To this request<br/>
however His Majesty paid little attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a few days there occurred the first impos-<br/>
ing some of the drama occurred in the<br/>
Court Room of Mons Rajaday the Siam<br/>
International judge. Mr. Martin and Phya<br/>
Wisate were in the International Court, and<br/>
a rather loud altercation occurred between<br/>
them, which resulted in their Rav-ing each<br/>
other hastily.  Mr. Martin then complain-<br/>
ed to the Consul for France that Phya<br/>
Wisate had called him a liar, and a person<br/>
in whom no confidence could be placed.<br/>
The Consul for France was very much in-<br/>
censed at this, and determined at once to<br/>
have Phya Wisate removed.  He immedi-<br/>
ately wrote a note to His Majesty the<br/>
Supreme King, demanding that Phya Wisate<br/>
be at once deposed without stay further in-<br/>
vestigation, and if the demand was not<br/>
complied with, he would take it as an in-<br/>
sult offered by His Majesty to Christianity,<br/>
as well as to the French Government, as it<br/>
would be an infraction of treaty stipulations.<br/>
This note was committed to the care of<br/>
Mr. Lamache who arrived at the palace at<br/>
2 oclock A. M. a very seasonable hour for<br/>
business transactions, and has occurred<br/>
scene No. 2.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty had been feeling unwell for<br/>
some days, but was that night in pretty bet-<br/>
ter and had called some Buddhist priests<br/>
for the purpose of holding special devotion-<br/>
al service. At this unreasonable hour M.<br/>
Lamache made his way into the palace, a<br/>
liberty which he had previously not presum-<br/>
ed to take, especially at such an hour. At this<br/>
sudden and unceremonious appearance His<br/>
Majesty manifested some irritation, and<br/>
even indignation. He demanded the busi-<br/>
ness of the intruder, and it could not<br/>
be postponed until morning. M. Lamache<br/>
then presented the letter of the Consul which<br/>
was perused by His Majesty, who immedi-<br/>
ately gave orders to have a suitable inves-<br/>
tigation made as early as possible. With<br/>
this however M. Lamache was not satisfied,<br/>
and said there was no need of any further<br/>
investigation, as he himself had heard the<br/>
language used by Phya Wisate to Father<br/>
Martin. He even ventured to expostulate<br/>
a third or fourth time, and his expostula-<br/>
tions were such as to border on imprudence.<br/>
His Majesty then became very much emerged<br/>
and said in language toward Mr. Lamache<br/>
which it would not be advisable to repeat,<br/>
and the time for Buddhist services having<br/>
arrived, he ordered him to leave the palace.<br/>
M. Lamache however still persisted in re-<br/>
maining, when His Majesty ordered him<br/>
to be taken out of the palace, which was<br/>
done. M. Lamache of course hastened to<br/>
his Consul and had the matter before him:<br/>
His Majesty had intended to write to the<br/>
Consul for France concerning the matter.<br/>
but feeling quite unwell the morning after<br/>
the scene occurred it was postponed. At this<br/>
postponement, or rather silence on the part<br/>
of His Majesty, the Consul for France was<br/>
very much enraged, and in haste addressed<br/>
a note to His Majesty impeaching him<br/>
with unfriendly sentiments towards the<br/>
French, and threatening that he would be<br/>
in Paris in six weeks and would lay the<br/>
matter before the Emperor, and that in the<br/>
mean time the French admiral at Saigon<br/>
would look after French interests in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a very short time however, Mom Ra-<br/>
joday, the present Siamese International<br/>
Judge was sent down to confer with the<br/>
Consul for France on the matter, and there<br/>
occurred scene No. 3.—No sooner had he<br/>
made his business known than, the Consul<br/>
picked up the betel box &c. of Mom Raja<br/>
day, which had been given him by the king,<br/>
and was the insignia of his rank, his<br/>
"Khruang Yot" and threw them out of<br/>
the house and they were broken by the fall.<br/>
Then taking Mom himself by his top-<br/>
knot, the tuft of hair so much prized by<br/>
the Siamese, he sent him after the betel box.<br/>
No greater insult in the eyes of Siamese<br/>
could have been offered to one of their of-<br/>
ficials. No fitter person, too, could have been<br/>
selected by His Majesty for such an er-<br/>
rand than Mom Rajoday. He is a Prince<br/>
and cousin of His Majesty, and is a man<br/>
also who has had much intercourse with<br/>
foreigners, and we believe is universally<br/>
esteemed by foreign residents here. He<br/>
speaks the English language tolerably well<br/>
and was one of the ambassadors sent by<br/>
His Majesty to the court of England a few<br/>
years since. His visit to England was not<br/>
wholly lost to him, for he learned much of<br/>
European customs while there. We feel<br/>
confident therefore in asserting that his<br/>
conduct on the occasion, was in every way<br/>
gentlemanly, and did not merit the treat-<br/>
ment he received. If it was in retaliation<br/>
for the treatment received by M. Lamache,<br/>
it must be taken into consideration that M.<br/>
Lamache is but a French subject in the<br/>
Siamese employ, whilst Mom Rajoday is a<br/>
Siamese official of high rank. The conduct<br/>
of the former was any thing but proper,<br/>
whilst the conduct of the latter was in every<br/>
way gentlemanly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this matter it is very evident that M.<br/>
Aubaret transcended his powers. Upon<br/>
what authority or treaty stipulations did<br/>
he as Consul for France demand the depos-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing of a Siamese official for an offence a-<br/>
gainst his church or pastor.—It is a ques-<br/>
tion to be settled by the church alone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is evident also from what has been<br/>
transpiring ever since M. Auharet has been<br/>
here, that he is not the man to get along<br/>
smoothly with the Siamese, and we doubt<br/>
if he could get along smoothly any where.<br/>
If he return to Siam he must return with<br/>
sufficient force, to make Siam virtually a<br/>
French province; and that himself be the chief<br/>
man in it. If H. I. Majesty brings him out<br/>
in such a course he certainly does not pos-<br/>
sess the shrewdness we have always ac-<br/>
credited to him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The strangest thing however in the<br/>
whole affair is that Their Majesties, both<br/>
the First and Second kings, gave him a<br/>
private audience before he left, and pre-<br/>
sented him with tokens of friendship,<br/>
which shows how fickle this people are, and<br/>
how likely to be swerved from any straight<br/>
forward course.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Garden Rambles in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 158)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Right merry must be the harvest-home<br/>
of the Laos at the north. This transport,<br/>
which I (Grandjean) have often witnessed,<br/>
is made in too curious and too amusing a<br/>
manner not to have a word about it. They<br/>
beat the rice upon the field where they<br/>
have collected it; this when the grain is<br/>
gathered into heaps; they go every morning,<br/>
each with a train of fifteen, twenty, or thir-<br/>
ty oxen. The first of these oxen, that is,<br/>
the one which walks at the head of the<br/>
troop, generally has the head covered with<br/>
garlands, surmounted with a bunch of pea-<br/>
cock's feathers, and the neck surrounded<br/>
with little bells. All these animals have<br/>
two kinds of baskets, on their backs, which<br/>
hang on each side, and which are filled<br/>
with rice, after which they return to the<br/>
city, (Cheangmai) making a dreadful bustle;<br/>
for the bridge which is at the gates of the<br/>
city, not having a breadth of more than two<br/>
fathoms. The convoys which are [...]ering<br/>
come in contact with those going out. A<br/>
general melee results. Each one runs hither<br/>
and thither to find his wandering cattle;<br/>
the shouts of the drivers and the [...] of<br/>
of the oxen are mixed with the ringing of a<br/>
thousand bells. The elephants, at a grave<br/>
place, come into the p...[ this rout with<br/>
large bells, which each have a differ-<br/>
ent tone; then the buffaloes, scared by the<br/>
ringing, open, by charging all in the breach,<br/>
a merciless gap followed by their masters,<br/>
who cry, 'Nen tua ha di Hhuai Sonak!'<br/>
that is, Take care, take care! a mad buffalo!<br/>
At last, the idle spectators, who gather in<br/>
crowds, increase the tumult more by their<br/>
cries and their incessant shouts of laughter.<br/>
The whole makes a truly comical affray—a<br/>
scene made up of the trunks of elephants,<br/>
horns of oxen, of Laconian sticks, which rise,<br/>
fall, and cross in all directions; and the<br/>
spectacle, which commences at break of day,<br/>
is prolonged until nine or ten o'clock, the<br/>
time when the carrying is stopped, because<br/>
the sun has become too hot. Such, for some<br/>
is the labor, for others the sport, of the<br/>
month of January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cultivation of sugar-cane, introduced<br/>
some fifty years ago by the Chinese, is<br/>
conducted chiefly by Siamese, who sell on<br/>
the field to the former. Planted in June or<br/>
July, and cut in latter December, it is car-<br/>
ried to the huge, uncouth mills which is of-<br/>
ten both the work-place and home of a<br/>
hundred or two Chinamen. The juice,<br/>
ground out between hard-wood cylinders,<br/>
turned by buffalo-crank, is boiled down<br/>
over heavy-fires, granulated in coarse earth-<br/>
en vessels of two or three gallons, and pur-<br/>
ified with quick-lime. In February excel-<br/>
lent sugars are in market. The quotations<br/>
for 1859 ranged from four-and-a-half to el-<br/>
even ticals, two dollars and seventy cents<br/>
to six dollars and sixty cents per piculs the<br/>
export reached two hundred and three<br/>
thousand five hundred and ninety-six piculs,<br/>
or twenty-seven million one hundred and<br/>
forty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-<br/>
three pounds, (about one-eighteenth of the<br/>
product of the United States,) being ship-<br/>
ped to Cinna, Singapore, Bombay, England,<br/>
and (though at little profit) to San Fran-<br/>
cisco.  A very choice and much used con-<br/>
fection, is the 'rock-candy,' large semi-<br/>
transparent crystal sugar.  The inferior<br/>
molasses-drainings, sold at about two dol-<br/>
lars and fifty cents per jar of thirty-five gal-<br/>
lons, are much used to give a tenacity to<br/>
shell-lime mortar, and finish to stone-lime<br/>
plaster.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next to betel, rice and sugar, ranks, as<br/>
a necessity, tobacco.  In the Siamese it is<br/>
termed 'medicine'; but if only used medi-<br/>
cinally they are a miserably sickly people,<br/>
and that from the cradle to the grave.  They<br/>
commence its use at a period considerably<br/>
more remote than that to which memory<br/>
runneth back.  It is not an exceedingly rare<br/>
sight to see young Siam, in her mother's<br/>
arms, alternate draughts at the fountain of<br/>
life with whiffs of the light cigaretto:<br/>
though she does not abandon the maternal<br/>
spring as early, by a year or two, as the<br/>
child of the West. We have often seen one,<br/>
just tottering about the house, hold a cigar<br/>
between her fingers, and puff away the blue<br/>
clouds with all the daintiness and gusto of<br/>
one in other lands, who had made it a life-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
long study and delight. The cigars, of fine<br/>
tobacco covered with dry plantain-leaf, are<br/>
skilfully lodged when not in actual service<br/>
over the ear, masculine or feminine. Large<br/>
quantities are chewed with betel. Indeed,<br/>
the Siamese have reached that highest<br/>
grade of civilization and refinement, of<br/>
which 'the use of the weed' is an index.<br/>
The production of coffee, though of late<br/>
date, has resulted in a good quantity and<br/>
quality. Under foreign management and<br/>
cultivated on the uplands, (on the low the<br/>
root runs down into the water, and the tree<br/>
too soon die,) it would, according to the<br/>
best judgment, become an extensive export.<br/>
It is, however, mostly drunk by foreigners,<br/>
and offered at entertainments of the weal-<br/>
thy; tea, imported, being the usual bever-<br/>
age. Hemp, of the finest strength and dur-<br/>
abilty, and cotton of different varieties, are<br/>
grown to some extent. The natives cleanse<br/>
the latter from seeds, etc., between two<br/>
wooden cylinders, revolving, by hand, in<br/>
opposite directions; beat it with rattan or<br/>
whip-bow, roll it with fingers, and reel and<br/>
weave it on machines very like those now<br/>
antique at home. The gigantic 'silk cot-<br/>
ton tree, with 'showers of scarlet lily-<br/>
shaped blossoms,' offers the soft, downy<br/>
contents (too short and brittle for yarn or<br/>
cloth) of its pods for cushions, pillows and<br/>
beds. The export of cotton, chiefly in<br/>
Hainan-Chinese junks, and difficult of es-<br/>
timate, was in 1858, two thousand three<br/>
hundred and thirty-four picols, or three<br/>
hundred and eleven thousand two hundred<br/>
pounds, at about sixteen ticals, nine dollars<br/>
and sixty cents per picol, for clean; prices<br/>
in 1859 ranged from eight to twenty-five<br/>
ticals, four dollars and eighty cents to fif-<br/>
teen dollars for cleaned and uncleaned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaties of 1855 and 1856 with<br/>
Great Britain, the United States, (nego-<br/>
tiated by the Hon. Townsend Harris,) and<br/>
France, with the consequent entrance of<br/>
western science, machinery, capital and<br/>
energy, are already and wonderfully stimul-<br/>
ating and developing the agricultural re-<br/>
sources of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yet, beside the fruit and the vegetable,<br/>
are the flower-gardens of Siam. The peo-<br/>
ple, from high to low, are exceedingly fond<br/>
of flowers. Young children wear them cir-<br/>
cled around the top-knot or the head, and<br/>
around the neck. The women net, of flow-<br/>
ers, seeds and buds, fragrant and beautiful<br/>
hanging ornaments of different forms, some<br/>
resembling lampelles. Persons are some-<br/>
times seen with flowers swinging from<br/>
mole-hairs on the skin. Coolies, digging<br/>
our trenches, besmeared from the sole of<br/>
the foot to the very tip of the tuft with<br/>
mud, frequently carried them over the ear<br/>
to regale themselves at intervals. In and<br/>
around the capital are many gardens de-<br/>
voted exclusively to their culture for the<br/>
royal palace, and for state, festal and fun-<br/>
eral displays. A large area in rear of a pa-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
lace, near which was our city home, bloom-<br/>
ed with roses, from which was paid the ro-<br/>
yal tribute of a magnate. The daily quota<br/>
of other princes and nobles was made up<br/>
of other flowers. Portions of the royal pa-<br/>
lace grounds are filled with the richest and<br/>
rarest, native and exotic. The temple<br/>
grounds are gay with plats, parterres and<br/>
vases; and the edifices themselves, ever re-<br/>
dolent of sweetest perfumes exhaled from<br/>
flowers, festooned from pillar to pillar, and<br/>
vased before the idol-shrines. [Here too the<br/>
banian, with shoots descending and root-<br/>
ing in the earth, 'enlarges and beautifies its<br/>
leafy palace,' but not in Indian frequency,<br/>
magintude and magnificence. And the<br/>
sacred fig, another banian though not root-<br/>
ing from the branches, spreads its delight-<br/>
ful tranquil shade, beneath which Gaudama,<br/>
after long profound contemplation and div-<br/>
ers works of merit, became Buddhas.  Re-<br/>
probate indeed is he who would break<br/>
limb, or do other dishoonor to it.] The lotus<br/>
of lotuses, 'a truly magnificent flower,<br/>
whose rosy petals, half-opening, emit a<br/>
sweet perfume from numerous golden stam-<br/>
ina; the exquisite nyctanthus; the olean-<br/>
der, 'pride of the jungle,' larger than the<br/>
largest home-lilac; the honey-suckle, the<br/>
jasmin, the pink, the amaranth, the heliot-<br/>
rope, the passion-flower, the cactus, the lily,<br/>
and others, many unknown to the West.<br/>
But the whole country is a garden of flow-<br/>
ers; they cluster in myriads beneath and<br/>
upon and amid fruit, shade and forest-trees<br/>
and shrub and plants, arraying all, at the<br/>
early rainy season, with variegated leaves<br/>
and blossoms, in more than queenly glory,<br/>
and breathing odors we might well imagine<br/>
celestial. The mangrove is the first and<br/>
the last to the sight of the coming and de-<br/>
parting visitor of Siam. Outskirting the<br/>
river-mouths and the gulf-shores, it is at<br/>
once a great conservative and aggressive.<br/>
It protects the banks from wasting currents<br/>
and tides; but more than this, it pushes far<br/>
out and invades the waters. Its lower<br/>
branches bend beneath the weight of the<br/>
long clavate, or oblate spheroid fruit, which<br/>
germinate, root, and spring up new plants,<br/>
more and more remote from land. With<br/>
their long, strong, arched and interlacing<br/>
roots, they plunder from the passing waters<br/>
floating dirt, weeds, sticks, soil, and invite<br/>
to their protection muscles, and other shell-<br/>
fish. Thus they slowly narrow and fill the<br/>
channels, and bring the shore to themselves.<br/>
But their policy is, like that of many who<br/>
'remove old landmarks,' fatal; when<br/>
their ultra on-reaching successors have shut<br/>
out from them the daily visits of the salt<br/>
waters, they are said to wither and die.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Brothers Leinhardt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 149.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very soon after, Hans Andersen—the<br/>
rich Hans Andersen—died in a fit: just as<br/>
my poor man might:  It had seemed to<br/>
the simple folks that even death, "the<br/>
mighty leveler," most respect so great a<br/>
man; and a sort of wonder mingled with<br/>
their lamentation.  Many relations whom<br/>
he had neither known nor loved came<br/>
mourning to his funeral; but when his will<br/>
was read, it was found he had bequeathed<br/>
his whole possessions and effects to his<br/>
good neighbor Frans as one who would<br/>
not equaled or abune riche.  "As rich as<br/>
Hans Andersen!"  Yes every rood and<br/>
sherd that once were his, now called Frans<br/>
Leinhardt master.  He had reached the<br/>
highest pinnacle of his ambition, and sat<br/>
in the sun, nay wore the coat, and stood<br/>
in the shoes, of him he had most envied;<br/>
still I doubt if he were half so happy, with<br/>
all his wealth and consequence, as his<br/>
brother poor and struggling for each day's<br/>
bread, but crowned with the tender love of<br/>
wife and children.  Year after year had<br/>
rolled away, till many had joined the ages<br/>
past and laid their irrevocable record of<br/>
good and evil deeds before the throne of<br/>
God; and the solemn slow moving years,<br/>
as they passed, had hardened Franz's heart,<br/>
and marked his face with wrinkles.  The<br/>
little brown house still stood amid the<br/>
broad, smiling fields, and huge barns,<br/>
strong and sturdy as of yore; and it would<br/>
have puzzled a good guesser to say which<br/>
was the older—the dry brown old house<br/>
or the brown dry-looking old man who<br/>
lived in it:  both looked as if they might<br/>
have challenged King Time to a trial of<br/>
strength, and come off victorious.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great barns and out-houses were full<br/>
to overflowing with earth's richest harvests,<br/>
as in the days when Franz Leinhardt, the<br/>
wood-cutter, gazed enviously at them from<br/>
his cot on the mountain side. Plenty and<br/>
to spare Franz had, but there had been<br/>
little comfort or happiness in the little<br/>
brown house since he called himself its<br/>
master. No weary wayfarer blessed his<br/>
hospitality, nor eager children gleaned the<br/>
scatterings of his fields: he saved money to<br/>
make more money, to save more money,<br/>
not to purchase his own ease or luxury, or<br/>
to do good to others. Forsaking all other<br/>
pleasures and affections, he loved Mammon<br/>
only, and toiled and slaved for gold. 'Twas<br/>
all he had to love. No wife had gladdened<br/>
the little brown house with her loving<br/>
smiles, nor children's voices woke its slum-<br/>
bering echoes. 'Women,' he said, 'were<br/>
extravagant and lazy; they were silly and<br/>
useless: and he was not rich enough to<br/>
keep a wife in idleness;' but I doubt if<br/>
any of the fair-haired, blue-eyed maids of<br/>
Lundkoping would have had him for all<br/>
his gold. But while wealth flowed into<br/>
the strong box of Franz, and stuck there<br/>
as if wedged and welded fast, Flemming's<br/>
little stock of worldly goods had found<br/>
wings and flown away, and turn which<br/>
way he would he found himself pursued by<br/>
an overwhelming tide of ill fortune; yet was<br/>
there many a honey-drop in his bitter cup.<br/>
Christina, no longer rosy-cheeked and dim-<br/>
ple-handed, was as tender and true as in<br/>
the May-day of their love, and met fate<br/>
bravely, toiling early and late to helpto pro-<br/>
vide for the six sturdy children who made<br/>
her merry with their laughter. It must be<br/>
admitted, however, that highly as these<br/>
heart-treasures are prized by their posses-<br/>
sors, (and I have heard very poor men say<br/>
worlds could not buy one them,) they are<br/>
more likely to drag a man down to the<br/>
mire of poverty, than raise him to the sun-<br/>
ny plains of affluence. Through all these<br/>
years while Franz was growing richer and<br/>
richer, Flemming was slipping down the<br/>
grim descent till he landed at the bottom<br/>
sick and penniless. His good wife wept<br/>
and prayed and toiled; but eight mouths<br/>
are hard to fill, and one cold bleak winter<br/>
day found the young Leinhardts keeping a<br/>
forced fast, with no corresponding feast in<br/>
prospect. The mother sat beside her sick<br/>
husband with despair in her face, till the<br/>
tears and lamentations of her children were<br/>
unendurable; and throwing a shawl over<br/>
her head, she sallied out in the drifting snow<br/>
and blustering wind to try if, after years of<br/>
estrangement, Franz could not be moved to<br/>
part with some of his hoarded wealth to<br/>
save his kindred from famine. She toiled<br/>
along the rough road in the face of a storm<br/>
that nearly blew her away, without feeling<br/>
much of its fury, for her heart was in her<br/>
poverty-stricken home; but when she reach-<br/>
ed the little brown house she trembled,<br/>
hesitating to supplicate the pity of a man<br/>
so hard and unrelenting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She peeped timidly in at the window:<br/>
Franz was sitting in a large arm chair, be-<br/>
fore a great blazing fire, smoking his pipe<br/>
with dreamy satisfaction. On the mantle<br/>
before him there stood a quaint old clock,<br/>
and while she gazed the wheels began to<br/>
whirr, and out popped a queer little man<br/>
in a red night-cap, holding a tiny bag in<br/>
each hand, which he elanked together three<br/>
or four times, nodding and rolling his old<br/>
little head all the time. Franz took the<br/>
pipe from his mouth and nodded gravely<br/>
to the little mannikin, which darted into<br/>
the clock again, and all was silent. Four<br/>
o'clock! Already night was closing in, the<br/>
snow fell in thicker flakes, and the wind<br/>
grew each moment more blustering—the<br/>
poor woman felt there was no time to<br/>
lose. Her timid knock brought Franz to<br/>
the door, and with a broken voice and<br/>
sinking heart she began her story; but no<br/>
sooner did he understand that she wanted<br/>
help than he motioned her impatiently from<br/>
the door, saying: "Go, go; am I to blame<br/>
that my brother is a fool and has a pack of<br/>
children? Had he minded me he would<br/>
have had no such plagues. 'Tis only<br/>
worthless idle people who are poor and<br/>
need help. I wont encourage imprudence<br/>
and mismanagement." "But my husband<br/>
is sick; how can I leave him to work for<br/>
my children!" sobbed poor Christina.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Let him go to an hospital, be industrious<br/>
and frugal and take care of your children.<br/>
'tis your business, not mine," returned<br/>
Frans roughly. "Ah me!" cried the poor<br/>
woman, clasping her hands, and raising her<br/>
tearful eyes to the stormy sky, "it is night<br/>
and winter, my children are starving, surely<br/>
I shall go mad;" and as she turned sadly<br/>
away, she said, "I pray God the gold that<br/>
he so hardened your heart may never<br/>
weigh so heavy on your soul that you<br/>
cannot mount to glory," and with a bowed<br/>
head and slow step she disappeared in the<br/>
storm and darkness. Frans stood looking<br/>
after her with something like remorse in<br/>
his heart, till night shrouded her from his<br/>
view, and he returned to his bright fire, his<br/>
arm chair, and his pipe; but a spell was on<br/>
him-—nothing seemed so cheery and com-<br/>
fortable as it had done before that woman<br/>
came. If he looked into the fire he saw<br/>
faces there that he did not want to see; in<br/>
the dark corners of the room were shadows<br/>
of drooping figures; from among the old<br/>
carvings and mouldings looked out thin<br/>
famine-worn visages; and the old clock kept<br/>
ticking over Christina's words: "Pray God<br/>
the gold that has so hardened your heart<br/>
may never weigh so heavy on your soul<br/>
that you cannot mount to glory."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
My voyage to Havana.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The voyage will benefit your health, dear<br/>
Maud; it is just what you need. Really, I<br/>
think you had better go."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus urged my husband over a letter re-<br/>
ceived that day, containing an urgent invi-<br/>
tation for me to spend the winter, in Hav-<br/>
ana, with some dear friends I had not met<br/>
for years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I could not feel it best to go. We two<br/>
were alone, Edward and I. For ten years we<br/>
had lived in out quiet, beautiful home, hap-<br/>
py in our love, which drew us closer as the<br/>
years went by. Happy, except that the<br/>
shadows, which always will gather where<br/>
there is no bright sunshine from child-eyes,<br/>
had settled in scarcely defined forms around<br/>
our hearth-stone. I tried to think Edward<br/>
felt their presence less than I—-he was out<br/>
all day, while I often sat alone, and heard<br/>
the echo of sweet baby tones and tender,<br/>
motherly endearments in my neighbors'<br/>
homes, till the shadows seemed to wrap me<br/>
like a cloud, and some drops fell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Edward could not go to Havana, and,<br/>
anxious as I was for the sight of the dear<br/>
faces who would meet me there, I was very<br/>
loth to go alone. But it was true Dr. Bry-<br/>
ant had advised just such a trip, and my<br/>
health was failing. My husband was firm<br/>
in the conviction that it was "just the thing,"<br/>
and promised to write daily, while he urged<br/>
that it would be only "a little while." A-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
shamed to write a refusal to my friends with<br/>
no better reasons to give for it, and with<br/>
father, mother and sisters united in think-<br/>
ing I must go, I foresaw that I must yield,<br/>
even while I was resolving to have not to<br/>
do so until the morrow.  I went to rest that<br/>
night troubled and rebellious; feeling that<br/>
it must be best for me to go, yet with my<br/>
heart strangely clinging to home, dear home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How short the time seemed till I was on<br/>
my way to Cuba!  The editor had been<br/>
spoken; our steamer was gaily plowing on<br/>
her course over the Atlantic waves under<br/>
a lovely October sky, and I, under the<br/>
guardianship of Captain Henderson, and<br/>
duly equipped with all the necessary com-<br/>
forts and luxuries suggested by my numer-<br/>
ous friends, was really making my first<br/>
voyage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The few ladies and gentlemen who were<br/>
my companions were pleasant, social and<br/>
intelligent, and we had a few days of pleas-<br/>
ant sailing under auspicious skies with fair<br/>
winds. Then came a fearful, terrible change.<br/>
I can remember but little of the events suc-<br/>
ceeding the storm that broke over us, ex-<br/>
cept the dreadful certainty; at last that we<br/>
were to be wrecked. Our vessel was beaten<br/>
upon the rocks, and probably all must per-<br/>
ish. Then a long, long struggle with the<br/>
wild, pitiless waves as I clung convulsively<br/>
to a piece of board; one of the crew gave<br/>
me when the wreck broke up and we were<br/>
all washed away. Then drifting away—away<br/>
from all, and feeling that I alone was left,<br/>
and no one could be saved. Then one last<br/>
thought of husband, mother, friends, home<br/>
and life, and then—utter unconsciousness<br/>
and oblivion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
* * * * *
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very dim are my memories of what next<br/>
occurred, even after life and consciousness<br/>
were partially returned. Strange figures<br/>
stalked about my bed, and words were spok-<br/>
en whose meaning I tried in vain to fathom;<br/>
all was dark, blank and desolate. Utter<br/>
weakness and prostration oppressed me. I<br/>
could remember nothing—understand noth-<br/>
ing. My voice sounded strangely in my<br/>
own ears, and I uttered words I had not<br/>
proposed. Soon another change. I was<br/>
stronger—walking, talking and mingling with<br/>
human beings whose words actions seemed<br/>
uncouth, erratic and absurd even to my be-<br/>
wildered sense. I could recall the past on-<br/>
lurid reigments and snatches of memory, and<br/>
these made me frantic with grief and desire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One day it all came back to me, Edward's<br/>
face, my home, the wreck, my combat for<br/>
life amid the waters, all passed before me.<br/>
I was alone. I raised my head and looked<br/>
around. A small room, neatly but sparing-<br/>
ly furnished, a little white bed on which I<br/>
lay, a chair and table. The window had an<br/>
out-look over green lawns, winding gravel-<br/>
led walks, and tall, waving, blossomy trees.<br/>
All strange. Where was I;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A negro woman came in. I saw her face<br/>
light up as she met my eyes, and when I<br/>
asked the above question, she broke out<br/>
joyfully—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Bress God, missy, youse, come to yerself!<br/>
Youse this sick, honey," she added, impres-<br/>
sively, "an' I'll tell ye all about it, only slow<br/>
like. An' ye must tell the doctor where yer<br/>
friends be; an' it’s all right now;"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And sincere joy shone from her wrinkled,<br/>
black face.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very soon after I knew all. I had been<br/>
picked up by some poor tar boilers on the<br/>
coast of North Carolina; had been resusci-<br/>
tated with great difficulty; had lain ill in<br/>
one of their cabins for months, attended by<br/>
the wide of its owner, and, and when my strength<br/>
returned, reason did not. Failing to find<br/>
any clew to my former home, they had<br/>
placed me in the State Lunatic Asylum,<br/>
where I now was. It was two years since<br/>
I left my home in New York to make that<br/>
fatal trip to Havana.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I would not wait to let Dr. Hunter send<br/>
any word to my friends in the north. He<br/>
was very kind—-supplied me with funds for<br/>
the journey, and made arrangements, I scarce-<br/>
ly know, for me to be passed through the<br/>
lines of the army. I was fast approaching<br/>
my home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I arrived in New York at nightfall. Ev-<br/>
ery thing seemed familiar. I had come to<br/>
the same depot many times on returning<br/>
from short trips to the country. I took a<br/>
carriage, and gave the driver the street and<br/>
number of my residence, scarcely realizing<br/>
that a day had passed since I last did so.<br/>
He stopped at the familiar door, assisted<br/>
me to light, rung the bell, and then drove<br/>
away. I stood, scarcely realizing anything,<br/>
waiting for the opening of the door. It was<br/>
opened by one of the servants I had left in<br/>
the house. I forgot for the time my long<br/>
absence, and wondered why she ran away,<br/>
after gazing for a moment, like a frightened<br/>
creature, leaving me standing in the hall.<br/>
then, remembering that they must have be-<br/>
lieved me dead, I passed on to the parlor,<br/>
with a strange heart-sinking and foreboding<br/>
of evil. In my haste and impatience to<br/>
reach my home, I had not thought that<br/>
changes might have occurred, within it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scarcely had I entered the room when I<br/>
heard the step of Edward, my husband, in<br/>
the hall. Every foot-fall brought freshly be-<br/>
fore me the happy days when I had listened<br/>
for them at this hour. He came directly<br/>
to the parlor. I stood near the centre of<br/>
the room, with the light shining full upon<br/>
my face. I could not feel that it had been<br/>
so long since we parted, and half expected<br/>
only the usual kiss and light-hearted great-<br/>
ing of old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why did he cower and turn so white?<br/>
Sinking upon his knees, he moaned pitifully—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Maud! My God! it is Maud!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I cannot tell you how, but after a while I<br/>
knew all. I think my mother came to us,<br/>
and told me, while I sat there trying to<br/>
keep from going mad with grief and agony.<br/>
I remembered I had a deep longing to be<br/>
back again in the little white room at the<br/>
asylum.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Ellis, in which I had sailed, had been<br/>
believed, without a doubt, to be lost, with<br/>
all on board. Edward had mourned for me<br/>
for months, refusing to be comforted. But<br/>
now—he had been married to cousin Lillie<br/>
for nearly a year; and the new wife, with<br/>
her baby only a few days old, was lying in<br/>
the room above me! I do not know how I<br/>
broke away from the house, and gained the<br/>
street. I walked on and on, swiftly. I<br/>
would not remain to cloud their joy. No,<br/>
No! Better be, as they had thought, dead<br/>
and buried beneath the waves! I reached<br/>
the river, and stepped quickly upon a ferry<br/>
boat, of which the bell was ringing. The<br/>
next moment I had plunged from her side.<br/>
into the waves. I struggled, and—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Edward stood at the dressing glass, care-<br/>
fully arranging his neck-tie, and the break-<br/>
fast bell was sounding:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, Maud," he said, gayly, "am I to<br/>
tell captain Henderson to reserve the best<br/>
state room in the Elks for your trip to Ha-<br/>
vana?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I shuddered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Edward," said I, very decidedly, "I shall<br/>
not go!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dancing
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
   Dr. Edie, one of the best Biblical schol-<br/>
ars of this age, says in his Cyclopaedia:<br/>
   From a collection of all the passages in<br/>
Scripture In reference to dancing, it may<br/>
be inferred:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. That dancing was a religious act;<br/>
both in true and in idol worship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. That it was practised exclusively on<br/>
joyful occasions, such as national festivals<br/>
or great victories.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. That it was performed on such occa-<br/>
sions only by one of the sexes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. That it was performed usually in the<br/>
day time—in the open air—in highways,<br/>
fields and groves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. That men who perverted dancing<br/>
from a sacred use to purposes of amuse-<br/>
ment were deemed infamous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. That no instances of dancing are<br/>
found upon record in the Bible, in which<br/>
the two sexes united in the exercise, either<br/>
as an act of worship or amusement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lastly. That there are no instances upon<br/>
record in the Bible of social dancing for<br/>
amusement, except that of the "vain fel-<br/>
lows" void of shame alluded to by Michael;<br/>
of the religious families described by Job,<br/>
which produced increased impiety and<br/>
ended in destruction; and of Herodias,<br/>
which terminated in the rash vow of Herod,<br/>
and the murder of John the Baptist,
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—The communication of R. S. S.<br/>
addressed to the journals of this place upon<br/>
the subject of supplying a new copper or<br/>
bronze coin to take the place of the abom-<br/>
inable lead coin now in circulation has elic-<br/>
ited a spark or two, which have made their<br/>
appearance in the columns of your contem-<br/>
porary. If nothing else, they enlighten the<br/>
community as to some of the proposals<br/>
which have been made to the Siamese<br/>
government. The communications all a-<br/>
gree as to the necessity of a new coin, but<br/>
there appears to be some difference of op-<br/>
inion as to the best mode of supplying it.<br/>
Only two tangible modes of supplying the<br/>
coin appear to suggest themselves. One is<br/>
to apply it from abroad and the other is<br/>
to make it here. I think the government<br/>
will be reluctant to try either way, so long<br/>
as they can supply the present lead coin<br/>
with such an advantage. They are issuing<br/>
rapidly every day, and sending them out to<br/>
draw all the silver they can into the treasury.<br/>
It is true several attempts have been made<br/>
to counterfeir them, and that rather suc-<br/>
cessfully, but these attempts have been on<br/>
a very small scale, so small indeed that the<br/>
government considered it had little to fear<br/>
from imposition, and dismissed the culprits.<br/>
The coin too is like the Chinese cash, in<br/>
itself so small that it does not pay<br/>
to counterfeit it. The necessities of the<br/>
community however demand a better coin.<br/>
The people also demand it. The ats will<br/>
soon be all the change in circulation less<br/>
than a tical. The old salunga and fuangs<br/>
are fast disappearing and no new ones are<br/>
appearing. Those still in circulation are<br/>
so much worn that it is difficult to pass<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no doubt but that it would be<br/>
much more profitable for the government to<br/>
make the coin themselves, than to farm it<br/>
out to some one of the foreign merchants.<br/>
But the question arises can they do it ?<br/>
Says one they have a mint and would it<br/>
not be for the interest of the government<br/>
to import from Europe good dies &c. It<br/>
must however be acknowledged, that the<br/>
mint is in part a failure. The new fiat<br/>
tical has been referred to as an evidence of<br/>
the inability of the Slaves of themselves to<br/>
produce a good coin. The fault however<br/>
I think, is not in the producers, but in the<br/>
idlers. The impression is so shallow that it<br/>
requires but a short time to efface it. The<br/>
miners too require to be taught how to<br/>
use a fiat coin. They try the genuineness<br/>
of the coin by throwing it down upon a<br/>
hard board, or upon the brick pavement.<br/>
No coin would stand such usage. To pro-<br/>
duce a good coin therefore they need first<br/>
of all good machinery, good dies &c. I<br/>
learn that they have a new mint on the way<br/>
out from England. They have also sent<br/>
to the U. S. Mint in Philadelphia for draw-<br/>
ings which are on the way out. Next to a<br/>
good mint they need a steady practical man<br/>
to superintend it. No one can deny that the<br/>
person, at present in charge of the mint has<br/>
done well. He picked the machinery up out<br/>
of confusion and with no one to instruct or<br/>
direct him put it in working order. They<br/>
used however a practical man to take charge<br/>
of the mint and for proper wages they can<br/>
get such a one. They have been exceedingly<br/>
unfortunate in the Europeans they have<br/>
already had'nt work on their mint, but they<br/>
have not had the right kind of men. They<br/>
have for the most part been simply engineers.<br/>
They have mostly been too, addicted to<br/>
intemperance so that how capable soever<br/>
they may have been of performing the work<br/>
they could scarcely be trusted. The Siamese<br/>
it is true have almost lost confidence in<br/>
European workmen, and it is no wonder<br/>
from the specimens they have usually had<br/>
about them. They are themselves however<br/>
much to blame for this as they generally try<br/>
to get a cheap article, and sometimes get<br/>
supplied to there hearts content. But by<br/>
paying proper wages they can get a good<br/>
sober steady man who has had some ex-<br/>
perience in such business. With a good<br/>
mint therefore and a good overseer it would<br/>
undoubtedly be more profitable to the gov-<br/>
ernment to make their own coin. But the<br/>
supply would be obtained much quicker,<br/>
and be attended with much less trouble, to<br/>
accept the offer of "R. S. S."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
I am Yours &
Those Dens.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_6_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EUROPEAN SUMMARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The elections are now over.  The Gov-<br/>
ernment have gained several seats in the<br/>
counties, and their total gains are now<br/>
estimated at 25.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Gladstone was defeated at Oxford<br/>
by 180 votes.  He has been returned for<br/>
South Lancashire, but the other Liberal<br/>
candidates were unsuccessful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Dumbartonshire Messrs. P. M. Sinol-<br/>
lett and Stirling have polled an equal num-<br/>
ber of votes. Mr. Lang has been returned<br/>
for the Wick Burghs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Serious election riots have taken place at<br/>
Rotherham, Maidenhead, Monaghan, and<br/>
other places.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince and Princess of Wales are<br/>
making a tour on the coast of Devonshire<br/>
and Cornwall. The Prince has visited the<br/>
French iron-clads now lying in Plymouth<br/>
sound.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The work of laying the Atlantic cable<br/>
has begun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen's prize at Wimbledon was<br/>
won by Mr. Sherman, of the 4th Yorkshire<br/>
Regiment. The Elcho Challenge Shield<br/>
was won by England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vacant Garter has been conferred on<br/>
Earl Cowper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Road murder case terminated without<br/>
a trial. Constance Kent pleaded guilty to<br/>
the charge of murder, and was sentenced<br/>
to death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Pritchard, the poisoner, has made a<br/>
full confession of his guilt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A party of English tourists succeeded in<br/>
reaching the summit of the Matterhorn in<br/>
Switzerland; but in descending the moun-<br/>
tain, three gentlemen and a guide fell over<br/>
a precipice and were killed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Diplomatic relations are about to be re-<br/>
established between England and Brazil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Mr. Jefferson Davis is<br/>
to be tried by a military commission for<br/>
complicity in the assassination plot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson's reconstruction poli-<br/>
cy is being strongly opposed by the extreme<br/>
Republican party.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A confiscation department has been estab-<br/>
lished as Richmond.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Barnum's museum at New York has been<br/>
destroyed by fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report of a proposed revival of the<br/>
European Congress scheme has been con-<br/>
tradicted by the Moniteur.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Banquets given at Cologne and Dentz to<br/>
the Liberal members of the Prussian Cham-<br/>
ber, have been suppressed by the Govern-<br/>
ment, and the guests dispersed by the mil-<br/>
itary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Forty of the Spanish bishops have pro-<br/>
tested against the recognition of the king-<br/>
dom of Italy by Spain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The obituary of the week includes the<br/>
name of Inspector-General of Hospitals H.<br/>
G. Graham, Madras Retired List.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The demand for money continues to in-<br/>
crease, and a speedy rise in the Bank rate<br/>
of discount is anticipated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The price of Consuls to-day is 89⅞ to 90<br/>
for money, and 90 to 90⅞ for account<br/>
(August 8).
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rates of Exchange: Bank's drawing<br/>
rates on Calcutta, 1s. 11¼d. to 1s. 11⅞d.;<br/>
on Bombay, 1s. 11¼d. to 2s. per rupee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton at Liverpool: Middling New<br/>
Orleans, 19¾d,; Dhollera Surat, 14½d.:<br/>
fair Egyptian, 18¾d. Total sales, 61,810<br/>
bales—24,780 for speculation and export.<br/>
Imports, 39,976 bales. Market dull and<br/>
irregular.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cotton goods at Manchester; Market flat<br/>
for both cloths and yarns, with prices in<br/>
favour of buyers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The elections are now over. The battle<br/>
has been fought, and it has resulted, as we<br/>
expected it would, in great gain to the<br/>
Liberal cause. The members of the Cabin-<br/>
et have met again in Downing-street, and<br/>
have felicitated each other on their com-<br/>
mon victory. It is calculated that they<br/>
are stronger than they were by twenty-four<br/>
votes. But every victory has its drawbacks.<br/>
Success is dearly purchased. If there be<br/>
not, as often happens, any humiliating<br/>
episodes, there are commonly some heavy<br/>
losses to deplore. And assuredly in this<br/>
case the victors are not without their "but-<br/>
cher's bill." Lord Palmerston has lost a<br/>
congenial colleague at Tiverton. Lord<br/>
Russell has to bewail the failure of his son.<br/>
Mr. Gladstone, though returned for South<br/>
Lancashire, is smarting under his defeat at<br/>
Oxford. Sir Charles Wood has been com-<br/>
pelled to change the representation of a<br/>
populous constituency for a nomination<br/>
borough. And such things are not pleasant.<br/>
But, on the whole, they have pulled through<br/>
in a very satisfactory manner; and nothing<br/>
is more certain than that "Conservative<br/>
reaction" is only a pretentious bubble.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But success has its own particular dan-<br/>
gers; and all who wish well to the present<br/>
Government and to the Liberal cause, hope<br/>
that prosperity will not render her Ma-<br/>
jesty's Ministers over-confident in their<br/>
stability.  Above all they must not think<br/>
that they have nothing to do.  The fact is<br/>
that they have a great deal to do.  They<br/>
must justify the expectations of the major-<br/>
ity by proving that they are not merely<br/>
Liberals in name.  In this respect there is,<br/>
perhaps, a good omen in Mr. Gladstone's<br/>
rejection by the University of Oxford.  As<br/>
representative of a large and Liberal con-<br/>
stituency he is likely to work with more<br/>
free and unembarrassed action than in his<br/>
old seat, and more may be looked for on<br/>
the side of progress from the member of<br/>
South Lancashire than from the academical<br/>
nominees.  In this respect, perhaps, we shall<br/>
see that adversity has its uses, and that<br/>
what is Oxford's loss may, in the end, be<br/>
England's gain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the termination of the election<br/>
contests comes a season of repose. There<br/>
are some candidates, successful and unsuc-<br/>
cessful, who are indirectly disposed to<br/>
fight their battles over again in the news-<br/>
papers, and to bandy "amenities," but the<br/>
instances of these are not numerous. On<br/>
the whole, the victors have used their suc-<br/>
cess with moderation, and the vanquished<br/>
have taken their defeat with praiseworthy<br/>
good-temper and philosophy. The ten-<br/>
dency now is, after a fortnight of excite-<br/>
ment, to subside. "Gentle dulness" will<br/>
now reign supreme. The London season<br/>
is over. People are rushing into the coun-<br/>
try and to the seaside, or crossing the Chan-<br/>
nel in search of new scenes on the continent<br/>
of Europe. The Queen is going abroad.<br/>
The Prince of Wales is exploring his<br/>
duchy in Cornwall. Prince Arthur is go-<br/>
ing to Wales to inaugurate a statue of the<br/>
Prince Consort at Tenby; and he whom<br/>
the Times this morning describes as "the<br/>
ruler of all the Indies" (Sir Charles<br/>
Wood), has betaken himself in search of<br/>
renewed health and strength to the German<br/>
baths. The clubs are already well-nigh<br/>
deserted, the state of the parks proclaims<br/>
the exodus of the "Upper Ten Thousand,"<br/>
and holiday-time at the public offices has<br/>
fairly commenced.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_7_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Intelligence has been received from New<br/>
York to the 15th inst. The four persons<br/>
sentenced to death for complicity in the as-<br/>
sassination plot were, as we stated in our<br/>
last, hung at Washington on the 7th inst.<br/>
The American papers give the following<br/>
details of the executions:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The order for their execution was read<br/>
to the prisoners on the 5th instant. Payne<br/>
and Mrs. Surratt heard it with quiet resign-<br/>
ation; the latter, however, earnestly begged<br/>
for four days' more time in order to prepare<br/>
herself for death. Harrold was quite over-<br/>
come, and wept bitterly, while Atzerodt<br/>
was paralyzed with terror. Mr. Clampit,<br/>
one of the counsel for Mrs. Surratt, pro-<br/>
cured a writ of habeas corpus from Judge<br/>
Wylde, which was served upon General<br/>
Hancock on the morning of the 7th. In<br/>
answer General Hancock appeared in court,<br/>
and stated that his reason for not making<br/>
the required return to the writ was in con-<br/>
sequence of the suspension of the writ by<br/>
the President. The following endorsement<br/>
upon the writ was then read:—'Executive-<br/>
office, July 7, 1865. Major-General Han-<br/>
cock, commanding. I, Andrew Johnson,<br/>
President of the United States, do declare<br/>
that the writ of habeas corpus has been<br/>
herebefore suspended in such cases as this,<br/>
and I do hereby especially suspend this writ,<br/>
and direct that you proceed to execute the<br/>
order of the Military Commission, and you<br/>
will give this in return for the writ. AND<br/>
REW JOHNSON. Harrold's sister and Mrs.<br/>
Surratt's Daughter Anna appeared early in<br/>
the morning at the White House to inter-<br/>
cede for clemency, and craved an interview<br/>
with the President, who had, given an inperit-<br/>
ive orders to admit no one. The grief of<br/>
Miss Surratt is said to have been pitiful.<br/>
Failing in all her efforts in behalf of her<br/>
mother, she finally sunk senseless upon<br/>
the steps of the executive mansion. Payne<br/>
is said to have earnestly declared Mrs. Sur-<br/>
ratt to be innocent, and to have exhibited<br/>
the greatest anxiety that she should not<br/>
suffer death. Even up to the hour of the<br/>
execution; it was generally expected that<br/>
Mrs. Surratt's sentence would be commuted.<br/>
From the time of hearing their doom the<br/>
prisoners were constantly attended by their<br/>
spiritual advisers, Payne's religious per-<br/>
suasion being Baptist, Mrs. Surratt's<br/>
Roman Catholic, Harrold's Methodist, while<br/>
Atzerodt selected a Lutheran minister. At<br/>
one o'clock p.m. the 27th inst., the prisoners<br/>
left the prison building for the gallows in<br/>
the courtyard. Mrs. Surratt had to be<br/>
supported. She was closely attended by<br/>
Fathers Wiget and Walter. Next came<br/>
Atzerodt, trembling and utterly unnerved.<br/>
Payne followed attended by the Rev. Mr.<br/>
Gillett.  He walked firmly, displayed no<br/>
bravado, but manifested in no way the<br/>
slightest fear.  Harrold was pale and sub-<br/>
dued in manner, but walked unaided.<br/>
Having reached the scaffold, Payne and<br/>
Harrold, through their ministers, thanked<br/>
General Hartruft for his uniform kind-<br/>
ness to them in their imprisonment.  Pray-<br/>
ers were then conducted, after which,<br/>
all being in readiness, the prisoners were<br/>
brought forward, bound, and the halter of<br/>
each adjusted.  Payne throughout main-<br/>
tained his firmness, Harrold being partial-<br/>
ly unconscious, Mrs. Surratt calm, and At-<br/>
zerott quaking with terror.  The latter<br/>
alone spoke upon the gallows, saing. 'Good-<br/>
bye, gentlemen.  May we all meet in an-<br/>
other world.'  At half-past one o'clock the<br/>
trap was sprung, the four culprits falling<br/>
simultaneously.  There was no struggle on<br/>
the part of Mrs. Surratt; she seemed to die<br/>
without suffering a moment's pain. Harold<br/>
struggled a little, but soon was quiet; and<br/>
Atzerott seemingly died easy. Payne, how-<br/>
ever, appeared to suffer greatly. The fall<br/>
did not break his neck, and he writhed and<br/>
heaved his body terribly, sometimes draw-<br/>
ing himself up as in a sitting posture.  In<br/>
six minutes all were dead.  After hanging<br/>
about twenty-six minutes the bodies were<br/>
cut down, placed in coffins, and at once<br/>
buried in the prison yard.  The affair was<br/>
conducted in a most orderly manner, and<br/>
was witnessed by about three hundred per-<br/>
sons, including the reporters for the press.<br/>
When about to rise from her chair for the<br/>
purpose of being pinioned, Mrs. Surratt in-<br/>
quired of her spiritual adviser what she<br/>
should say on the scaffold, and upon being<br/>
answered, 'Oh, nothing—what do you de—<br/>
sire to say?" replied, 'That I am innocent.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The execution has been much discussed<br/>
by the American press. Some journals<br/>
defend the course of the authorities, and<br/>
endorse the sentence and execution as both<br/>
just and expedient, while others, especially<br/>
the anti-administration journals, assert that<br/>
the military commission pronounced sen-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tence upon insufficient evidence, and that<br/>
the sentence was then carried into effect<br/>
with indecent haste and inhumanity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is stated that there is still a prospect<br/>
that Mr. Jefferson Davis may be put on<br/>
trial for complicity in the assassination plot.<br/>
It is said that among the documents recent-<br/>
ly discovered are some which fasten upon<br/>
him most clearly the guilt of having abetted<br/>
the crime, and there is a rumour that he<br/>
will be tried by a military commission at<br/>
Washington.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Moniteur has stated that "the re-<br/>
ports current that an understanding had<br/>
been arrived at between the great Powers<br/>
of Europe for the assembly of a Congress<br/>
are devoid of foundation."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince Imperial is offically stated to<br/>
have completely recovered from his in-<br/>
disposition, and the Empress and her son<br/>
have gone to Fontainebleau. A correspon-<br/>
dent, writing from the French capital, says<br/>
the illness of the boy has been caused by<br/>
the injudicious efforts to make him a prodigy<br/>
of learning. The Prince gave way under the<br/>
weight of the tasks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Moniteur contradicts the statements<br/>
which have been published that the Emper-<br/>
or Napoleon intended to promote Abd-el-<br/>
Kader to a sort of vice royalty in Algeria.<br/>
The official journal says, "The rumour of<br/>
the appointment of Abd-el-Kader to any<br/>
post whatever in Algeria is destitute of<br/>
foundation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Paris press has taken a warm inter-<br/>
est in Mr. Gladstone's success in South<br/>
Lancashire. At first it was reported that he<br/>
had been defeated, and the news was receiv-<br/>
ed with deep regret. His rejection at Ox-<br/>
ford is looked upon in Paris as a decided<br/>
gain to the liberal cause. The Courier du<br/>
Dimanche thinks that the constituency<br/>
which regrets the Chancellor who brings<br/>
in his budget every year with a surplus,<br/>
and reduces taxation, must be hard to please.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Courier suggestively adds that it knows<br/>
of a country where such financial genius<br/>
would be welcome. The France is especial-<br/>
ly loud in its praises of Mr. Gladstone, and<br/>
congratulates the electors of South Lancas-<br/>
hire on "having had the privilege of return-<br/>
ing the glorious defeated of Oxford.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Overland Mail July 26th.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING IN SAIGON RIVER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to inform Captains,<br/>
Ship Owners, and Consignees of vessels<br/>
that the S. Sr. "Powerful" 100 Horse<br/>
power will be ready to tow, in a short time,<br/>
Vessels of the largest tonnage in Saigon<br/>
River at moderate rates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Saigon August 29th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DENIS FRERES.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the public-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MR. A. SAIHTLER,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Begs to inform the inhabit-<br/>
ants of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
arrived here upon a visit, and<br/>
during his stay will be glad to<br/>
take portraits, landscapes and<br/>
views of houses etc. of all sizes,<br/>
to 15 inches. His atelier is at<br/>
Falks Hotel New Road.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. J. L. HOOD U. S. Consul for Siam,<br/>
with Mrs. Hood, arrived per Chow Phya,<br/>
on the 8th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American community are doubtless<br/>
ready to extend to Mr. and Mrs. Hood a<br/>
most cordial welcome with best wishes that<br/>
they may have a pleasant sojourn here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MONS. ST CYR JULLIEN IS ACTING CONSUL<br/>
FOR FRANCE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from private sources that Mr.<br/>
Thomas Miller, who spent some three years<br/>
here, and is well known to most of the re-<br/>
idents, sailed from New York July 1st, on<br/>
his return to Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We notice in the China Express of 27th<br/>
July the following statement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The King of Siam has resolved on the re-<br/>
organisation of his fleet, and has sent an<br/>
order to France for the construction of a<br/>
Corvette and four armed vessels of lighter<br/>
draft." We are authorised to state that there<br/>
is no truth whatever in this statement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are authorised to say that the Siam-<br/>
ese government has already taken the sub-<br/>
ject of copper coin into consideration, and<br/>
decided that it will not be wise to entertain<br/>
any proposition to import copper etc into<br/>
the country, but would encourage the ex-<br/>
pectation that importations of simple cop-<br/>
per can be readily sold to government at<br/>
reasonable prices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear of much oppressive treatment<br/>
at the Custom Office of Bangsai on the riv-<br/>
er Chow Phya a little below Ayuthia of<br/>
country Chainaman, coming in boats from<br/>
northern Siam, loaded with merchandise<br/>
for this market. If the half we learn<br/>
be true, the matter claims prompt and thor-<br/>
ough investigation by government. In our<br/>
next Siamese issue we purpose to publish a<br/>
more full account of the complaints that come<br/>
from that quarter. It seems to us quite<br/>
probable that such violence is not limited<br/>
to that single Custom Office but will, on in-<br/>
vestigation, be found at many others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from the best authority, that<br/>
the prospects of the rice crops are now very<br/>
fair in almost all parts of the country. But<br/>
in the immediate vicinity of Bangkok they<br/>
are rather precarious for the want of rain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new canal from Tacheen River is<br/>
being cut rapidly and will possibly be<br/>
done in two or three months.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"Have? you relatives in the army?"<br/>
asked a Second Lieutenant of a lady siting<br/>
in the car seat with him.  "Yes."  "Your<br/>
husband?"  "Yes, Sir."  "From what<br/>
State?"  "Illinois."  "Illinois [patronis-<br/>
ingly], has sent some fine troops, ma'am.<br/>
Your husband wears a strap, I presume?"<br/>
"Yes, Sir."  "Is be with the Potomac<br/>
army?"  "Yes, Sir."  "May I inquire his<br/>
name?-—I am acquainted with a good many<br/>
brother officers there."  "Certainly, Sir—<br/>
Ulysses S. Grant."  (Exit Lieutenant for<br/>
smoking-car.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Dispatch from Pres. Johnson.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following dispatch from the Presi-<br/>
dent of the United States in response to a<br/>
telegram sent to him by the Congrega-<br/>
tional Churches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To. Gov. Wm. A. Buckingham Mod-<br/>
erator of the National Council of Congre-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
gational Churches, Boston:— I recieve with<br/>
profound thanks the dispatch of your Coun-<br/>
cil. In the arduous and embarrassing duties<br/>
devolved upon me, I feel the need of the<br/>
cooperation and sympathy of the people and<br/>
of the assistance of the Great Ruler of the<br/>
universe. These duties I shall endeavor to dis-<br/>
charge honestly, and to the best of my judg-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ment, with the conviction that the best in-<br/>
terests of civil and religious liberty through<br/>
the world, will be preserved and promoted<br/>
by the success and permanency of our coun-<br/>
try. Let us all labor to that end, and the<br/>
mission upon which the people have been<br/>
sent among the nations of the world will<br/>
be accomplished.                                                   :|Andrew Johnson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_10_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="rd8">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST SEPT 16TH 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="rd9">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rda">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">H.I.M.G. boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Siagon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Aug.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Triton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Seher</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">734</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Tweelingen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Bruijns</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">596</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saurabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mitraille</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Oley</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">H.A.M.G.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">230</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Augnal</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Booeck</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">283</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Kinicka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cummings</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Britis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Ingenmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pontimak[?]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Graswinckel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">790</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Verena-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Palaskie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Tinghai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">90</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="re3">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Prussian barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tweelingen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">596</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Bruijins</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Sinagpore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Dutch barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">248</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Hartlepool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="re4">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="re3">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">355</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh So</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Eames</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Morning Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Lit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">389</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tik Chi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Poop</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
