---
linkTitle: 'September 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 1st'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 16
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1st 1865.</td>
 <td>NO. 16</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok September 1st.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle local event which has trans-<br/>
pired since our last issue is the government<br/>
proclamation, which will be found in an-<br/>
other column, removing the prohibition<br/>
which has been in force for this last seven<br/>
months, forbidding the exportation of<br/>
rice. Those whose business it is to export<br/>
will doubtless breathe a little more freely,<br/>
even if the removal of the prohibition can<br/>
at present be of very little benefit to them.<br/>
It is natural for those whose business is<br/>
trade to want all restrictions upon it re-<br/>
moved should there be little or no trade at<br/>
the time. So long however as rice is so scarce<br/>
and dear, and prices abroad so low it matters<br/>
but little to exporters whether the pro-<br/>
hibition be removed or not. It is said that<br/>
there was considerable opposition among<br/>
government officials, and even from the<br/>
throne itself, to the removal of the pro-<br/>
hibition, the principle reason given being<br/>
a fear of scarcity and famine in the country.<br/>
It is believed by some that there is still<br/>
quite an amount of paddy in the country,<br/>
and suppose there is, it is in such hands<br/>
that it cannot be got at until there is a fair<br/>
prospect of a crop. Much as the Siamese<br/>
love money, they have still a natural dread<br/>
of famine, and they will forego the pleasure<br/>
of the former, in order to prevent the lat-<br/>
ter. Their influence is such that they can<br/>
control the avenues to the city and prevent<br/>
large quantities of paddy reaching here<br/>
without any apparent violation of the treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So far as can now be seen the next crop<br/>
must be short. Should the rains however<br/>
be copious through September there might<br/>
still be time for a late crop. At present,<br/>
in a few provinces, the prospects are rather<br/>
encouraging, but in most places they are<br/>
on the contrary very discouraging. We<br/>
have certainly had a singular season so far.<br/>
During the months of July and August<br/>
we have not had what would be called in<br/>
an ordinary year a good shower of rain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sky appears to be b?e?am above us, and<br/>
a cool strong dry wind from the South<br/>
West prevails. Some times a cloud ap-<br/>
pears which promises a copious shower,<br/>
but soon passes off with a blast of wind<br/>
and a few drops of rain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to the rice crop however, it<br/>
must be taken into consideration that there<br/>
is about twice the usual amount of ground<br/>
under cultivation this year, and should<br/>
there only be an average of half a crop<br/>
through the country it will amount to an<br/>
ordinary crop other years.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Oil Question.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The oil monopoly it would appear is not<br/>
yet quite settled. Some time since an officer<br/>
ordered those engaged in making oil to drop<br/>
operations at once, as the business had be-<br/>
come a monopoly. It was of course the bu-<br/>
siness of those representing the Treaty Pow-<br/>
ers to take exception to such a course. It<br/>
was however argued by the Siamese, in just-<br/>
ification of their course that it was indeed<br/>
better for all parties to remove the tax from<br/>
the cocoanut tree and place it upon the oil.<br/>
That in consequence of a high tax imposed<br/>
directly upon the tree the cocoanut have<br/>
suffered to decline and new ones were not<br/>
planted in the place of those which had<br/>
died. Their arguments were indeed plaus-<br/>
ible, for we all know that the farther a tax<br/>
can be removed from the producer and the<br/>
nearer it can be brought to the consumer,<br/>
the better for the former, and the more<br/>
encouragement given to him, the greater<br/>
would be the production. That the matter<br/>
rest here, and there be no abuse of the<br/>
monopoly, we suppose the Treaty Powers<br/>
would be satisfied. There is however likely<br/>
to be an abuse of the matter [....] [....]<br/>
Garden taxes here are of two kinds.  The<br/>
one is assessed on certain fruit trees. Then<br/>
one during a reign, unless the reign be a<br/>
a very long one.  This tax although imposed<br/>
only once during a reign, is collected an-<br/>
nually, and by the government [....] di-<br/>
rectly.  The other tax is an assessed tax<br/>
that is, it is both assessed, and collected<br/>
every year, on plantains, jack fruit and<br/>
some other trees not included in the<br/>
list of the long assessment. It, too, is not<br/>
collected by the government directly as the<br/>
other, but is farmed out. The news now is,<br/>
that the cocoanut is to be taken out of the<br/>
list of the long assessment, and placed on<br/>
the list of the annual assessment, and that<br/>
when this is done there is a person ready<br/>
to bid for the farm. A decree has also<br/>
gone forth (we know not from whom) that<br/>
garden owners must immediately plant co-<br/>
coanut trees in the places of those which<br/>
have died, and they are hastening to com-<br/>
ply.  If this measure is carried out, it will<br/>
readily be perceived that the oil will come<br/>
to the consumer burdened with a double<br/>
tax.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A PROCLAMATION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CHOW PHYA PRAK'LANG Min-<br/>
ister of Foreign affairs, desires to publish<br/>
for the information of all whom it may<br/>
concern the following PROCLAMA-<br/>
TION.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On a former occasion I was required by<br/>
the Siamese government to inform you by<br/>
a written PROCLAMATION, that in the year of<br/>
the Rat [the last year] throughout the King-<br/>
dom of Siam, there were localities where<br/>
the water was over-abundant, and conse-<br/>
quently the fields could not be made to pro-<br/>
duce rice—-and other localities where the<br/>
water was quite insufficient and hence a<br/>
failure of the crop, the people became much<br/>
alarmed fearing famine prices of the grain,<br/>
consequently the government resolved to<br/>
interdict the exportation of Rice from the<br/>
second month [corresponding with the 28th<br/>
Dec. 1864] until the end of the 9th month<br/>
(corresponding with the 20th inst.) And<br/>
that then, if on investigation it should be<br/>
found that the rains are abundant and that<br/>
the people are enabled to plant rice plenti-<br/>
fully, the interdiction shall be removed so<br/>
that Merchants shall be allowed to trade in<br/>
the same. But on the other hand, if there<br/>
shall be then, a drought, or if the rains shall<br/>
be in great excess, preventing the growth<br/>
of rice the government will have to con-<br/>
tinue to interdict the sale of the grain an-<br/>
other year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now it appears from the reports of<br/>
the governors of the Provinces at the South<br/>
and the North, that in some of the Pro-<br/>
vinces the rains have fallen in too small<br/>
quantities to overflow the rice fields, and<br/>
that consequently the planters have not yet<br/>
been able to plant their fields with success.<br/>
In some Provinces the rains have been suffi-<br/>
cient to grow the young rice plants with<br/>
good hopes of a crop.  In districts where<br/>
the rice is sown, as in the Province of A-<br/>
yudia, the farmers have ploughed their<br/>
fields and got ready to sow, but the rain is<br/>
yet too little to cover the fields with water.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear that rain in the northern<br/>
Provinces has not fallen in sufficient abun-<br/>
dance to cause the river in the Southern<br/>
districts to overflow its banks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the water from the North does not<br/>
come down and flow over the rice fields and<br/>
nourish the young plants they will per-<br/>
ish as was the case last year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But if the northern water shall be suf-<br/>
ficient in the course of the 10th, 11th and<br/>
12th months (corresponding with the last<br/>
ten days of August and the whole of Septem-<br/>
ber and October) to overflow the rice<br/>
fields, a fair crop will be obtained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Should however the water be insufficient,<br/>
as happened last year, the government are<br/>
unanimous in the opinion that the price of<br/>
rice in Siam is now [ a period of about 10<br/>
months ] higher than it has been, and that<br/>
the grain now stored in graneries is nearly<br/>
exhausted. In some of the Provinces where<br/>
the rice growers have been able to plant<br/>
their fields successfully, the restrictions in<br/>
the rice trade have already been removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Government has therefore ordered me to<br/>
inform you that there will be no order to<br/>
interdict the exportation of rice another<br/>
year. But the matter will be left to the<br/>
option of the seller and purchaser to sell or<br/>
purchase as they shall judge it most profitable<br/>
for themselves. Government only requests to<br/>
take the usual custom on the grain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Moreover government learns that in China<br/>
and other places rice is cheaper than in<br/>
Bangkok. Now if Merchants in their several<br/>
spheres will import rice for sale in Siam, the<br/>
usual import custom of three per cent<br/>
shall not be demanded. But other imports<br/>
shall still continue to pay duty according<br/>
to the Treaties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Issued on the 1st day of the waxing<br/>
moon of the 10th month, corresponding<br/>
to August 22d 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder"
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir.—Through the medium of your co-<br/>
lumns I beg to call attention to a subject<br/>
of some importance to the Kings and peo-<br/>
ple of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A short time ago it was arranged to re-<br/>
place the circulation of Cowries by Ats and<br/>
Lots. This was no doubt in imitation of<br/>
foreign countries which use coins such as<br/>
pence, cents, and sone, which are coins well<br/>
known and highly approved of, and the<br/>
H. M. the king showed great wisdom and<br/>
knowledge, of the custom of distant com-<br/>
tries. But these Ats and Lots being made<br/>
of such Metal as Tin or Lead it was not<br/>
only easy for evil disposed persons to coun-<br/>
terfeit them, but there was temptation thrown<br/>
in their way, by the great profit likely to<br/>
accrue, and in proof of this we have merely<br/>
to consider well known facts. For instance,<br/>
the Government give in exchange 64 Ats<br/>
for one tical or 8 for a fuang, but the coun-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
terfeiters sell 100 Ats for ⅞ths of a tical and<br/>
consequently a large amount of base coin<br/>
has found its way into circulation. By the<br/>
laws of Siam forgers are liable to very severe<br/>
penalties, but so long as it is easy to coun-<br/>
terfeit and great profits can be made, the<br/>
fear of punishment will be found insufficient<br/>
to arrest the evil. I foresee that great diffi-<br/>
culties will result from the use of this lead<br/>
money, and therefore would suggest that<br/>
instead of it the small coins should be made<br/>
of copper, and in such a way that it would<br/>
be difficult to imitate them. Amongst the<br/>
valuable considerations, in favor of the use<br/>
of copper money, may be mentioned the<br/>
length of time that it will wear and retain<br/>
the impressions made upon it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to me that the making of coins<br/>
of copper instead of lead would accomplish<br/>
the object which H. M. the King had in<br/>
view in making the Ats and Lots, but<br/>
which is not yet fulfilled, and would prove<br/>
to future generations H. M.'s consideration<br/>
for the prosperity of his kingdom. This cop-<br/>
per coinage would be of such a nature that<br/>
subsequent rulers of the country could not<br/>
fail to see its great advantages, and would<br/>
therefore not think of making any altera-<br/>
tion in the currency, from the conviction<br/>
that they could not improve it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With a view speedily to remedy this de-<br/>
fect, I propose that in consideration of a<br/>
payment of 400 catties annually, His Ma-<br/>
jesty should grant for ten years the right<br/>
to supply copper or bronze coins, of the<br/>
same nominal value as those of lead now<br/>
current, and which would intrinsically re-<br/>
present such a value that it would be im-<br/>
possible to make a profit by imitating them,<br/>
hence the evil now felt would cease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now that I have ventured on the ex-<br/>
pression of my opinion, allow me to invite<br/>
your readers to give theirs in the next is-<br/>
sue of your paper; and should there be any<br/>
more feasible proposition made, it is to be<br/>
hoped that all, who have it in their power,<br/>
will assist in its accomplishment instead of<br/>
throwing obstacles in the way; but if there is<br/>
nothing better proposed I hope that my<br/>
suggestions may be carried into effect with-<br/>
out delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
I am &c. R. S. S.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Aug. 26th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Garden Rambles in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 151)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Largest of all the fruits of our little<br/>
domain is the jack, a species of bread-<br/>
fruit. It grows on the trunk and larger<br/>
branches of a lofty, spreading, and dark-<br/>
green, oval-leated tree. Appearing four or<br/>
five at once and as many tens annually it,<br/>
reaches & foot in diameter and one and a<br/>
half in length, and requires protection from<br/>
premature fall and frugiverous birds. The<br/>
rough green rind incloses numerous kernels<br/>
or nuts, which are covered with a rich,<br/>
cream-colored and very odoriferous fruit,<br/>
quite agreeable but laxative. Those nuts<br/>
are sometimes roasted. The wood of the<br/>
tree, fustic, is used in the yellow dyeing of<br/>
priests' robes. The bread-fruit proper is<br/>
the smaller and nearly rounded fruit of a low-<br/>
tree, of forty-five to fifty feet, with ser-<br/>
rate leaf. Though in taste, nutrition and<br/>
otherwise well named, it is coarse, and,<br/>
even prepared with palm-sugar and cocoa-<br/>
milk, not very attractive to native or for-<br/>
eigner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most esteemed by the Siameses, of all the<br/>
fruit-bearers, is the durian. It resembles its<br/>
neighbor the jack, but is more lofty, and<br/>
sends out its more numerous branches more<br/>
at right angles. The fruit hanging in scores,<br/>
is an oblong oval of five by seven inches,<br/>
with rind rising in high, hard points, which,<br/>
not to mention the force of gravity, make<br/>
its unseeen fall somewhat to be feared.<br/>
When ripe, it bursts the tough rind and<br/>
discloses four lobes, each containing sever-<br/>
al nuts, and all enveloped in a nearly white,<br/>
soft pulp. This is the most delicious of the<br/>
delicious, the concentrated, subliminated<br/>
quintessence of deliciousness to native taste.<br/>
But for the foreign novitiate, the odor, the<br/>
stench of the durian sufficeth. Compared<br/>
unto it, antiquated eggs, rotting fish, sauer-<br/>
kraut, all together, are but the perfumed<br/>
breath of the sweetest conservatory. It has<br/>
been likened to assafoetida, to the stink of<br/>
various and onions mingled, to a mixture<br/>
of sulphureted hydrogen gas and garlic;<br/>
we would liken it to the whole combined.<br/>
You can detect the presence of one in a<br/>
distant part of the house; a boat load a<br/>
fourth of a mile. The organ of smell, long<br/>
and painfully disciplined to a reluctant ac-<br/>
quiescence, few can even then taste it with<br/>
out having peculiar gastric symptoms which<br/>
recall first experiences at sea. But the two-<br/>
fold ordeal past, many become fond, pas-<br/>
sionately fond of the durian, and marvellous<br/>
is the number which they boast of daily<br/>
eating. It is the most expenssive of fruits<br/>
and its presentation is regarded as a token<br/>
of warm friendship and highest considera-<br/>
tion. An old traveller, discovering very<br/>
quaintly and somewhat fancifully of the<br/>
durian, in connection with the betel, says:<br/>
'In Malacca there is a fruit so pleasant both<br/>
for taste and small, that it excelleth all<br/>
other fruits, both of India and Malacca, al-<br/>
though there are many both excellent and<br/>
very good. This fruit is hot and moist;<br/>
and such as will eat them, must first treadle<br/>
upon them softly with his foote and breake<br/>
the prickers that are about them. Siroh as<br/>
never eate of it before, when they smell it<br/>
at the first, thinke it scenteth like a rotten<br/>
onyon; but having tasted it, they esteeme it<br/>
above all other fruites, both for taste and<br/>
savor. Here you must note a wonderful<br/>
contrarietie that is between this fruit dur-<br/>
ian and the bearbe bettele; which in truth<br/>
is so great, that if there were a whole ship-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
pe, shoppe, or house full of duriaens,<br/>
wherein there lay certaine leaves of bettele,<br/>
all the duriaens would presently rette<br/>
and bee spoyled. And likewise, by eating over<br/>
many of those duriaens, they heat the maw<br/>
and make it swell: and one leaf of bettele,<br/>
to the contrairie, being laid cold upon the<br/>
heart, will presently cease the inflammation,<br/>
rising or swelling of the maw. And so, if<br/>
after you have eaten duriaens, you chance<br/>
to eat a leaf or two of bettele, you can re-<br/>
ceive no hurt by the duriaens, although<br/>
your stomach never so many. Hereupon,<br/>
and because they are of so pleasant a taste,<br/>
the common saying is, that men can never<br/>
be satisfied with them. The mangosteen<br/>
to us, however, the nonpareil of tropic<br/>
fruits. The tree, more nearly than any<br/>
other of the East, resembles the apple-tree,<br/>
and the abundant fruit is about the size of<br/>
a medium greening. The rind, dark brown<br/>
without and beautiful vermilion within, has<br/>
a very bitter juice, which is used as an<br/>
astringent in medicine and a black mordant<br/>
in dyeing. The lobes, (in number indicated<br/>
before opening by the divisions of the per-<br/>
manent peltate stigma which crowns the<br/>
fruit) with each a seed, are of the purest<br/>
white and the most delicate, exquisite,<br/>
strawberry-like flavor. Healthful as delight-<br/>
ful, there is scarce any limit to the enjoy-<br/>
ment of mangoesteens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very like in appearance to the strawber-<br/>
ry, at a distance, is the rambutan. Its<br/>
large clusters in rich profusion and scarlet,<br/>
dapple the green leaves of the fine tree, like<br/>
the early colorings of the autumnal maple.<br/>
The fruit is a drupe, of the size of a medium<br/>
plum, with a tough, hairy (as its Malay<br/>
name denotes) skin, and a semi-transparent<br/>
and pleasant pulp containing a stone. Hard<br/>
by grow the maprang, with its thousands<br/>
of smooth golden plums, quite resembling<br/>
our largest and best.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pomelo, with its pretty white blos-<br/>
soms of orange fragrance, shining out from<br/>
dark leaves, and four-score fruit, invited us<br/>
to pluck from our veranda. Stripped of its<br/>
rind, this great orange is a pale white or a<br/>
reddish, according to variety, and though<br/>
rather bitter, is more refreshing and tonic<br/>
than the same fruit known as the shaddock<br/>
(from the ship-master Shaddock who in-<br/>
troduced it) of the West-Indies. The thick<br/>
rind is often used as that of melons else-<br/>
where, as a medium for eating sugar. The<br/>
pine-apple abounds in the country; but<br/>
some predatory hand always relieved us<br/>
from eating our own. They are inferior to<br/>
those at Singapore, which indeed are un-<br/>
rivalled in lusciousness and cheapness, the<br/>
choicest in the world being frequently re-<br/>
tailed 'two for a penny.' While there, one<br/>
day sitting in the office of a Chinese mer-<br/>
chant, we saw on the quay a group of four<br/>
boat-coolies pare and internally pack away<br/>
in about ten minutes a pile of over twenty<br/>
large pine-apples, without any manifest con-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sciousness whatever of heroic or painful a-<br/>
chievement. The custard-apple, of the size<br/>
of a large peach, with greenish, soft, far-<br/>
rowed, fragile skin, and, barring the many<br/>
dark seeds, very custard-like pulp, is ex-<br/>
ceedingly choice. Of the same genus with<br/>
this, the papaya and sour-sop are of the size<br/>
and color of a medium musk-melon, the<br/>
one sweet and aromatic, the other more<br/>
juicy and tart. The guava grows on a tree<br/>
twenty-five to thirty feet high, with light<br/>
green leaves and large white flowers. It is<br/>
conical, smaller than the quince, to which<br/>
it is often, compared, of not pleasant smell,<br/>
but stewed, preserved or jellied, of very fine<br/>
flavor. Like the banana and cocoa-not<br/>
when seen in northern markets, this fam-<br/>
ous jelly gives little idea of its fresh deli-<br/>
ciousness at home. Less even does that<br/>
prized pickle, the mango, realize to one the<br/>
ripe fruit of the gulf-side of Siam. The tree<br/>
attains to sixty feet, and to three in diam-<br/>
eter, with large spreading branches, long,<br/>
narrow, deep-green leaf, and small, white<br/>
blossom; it would remind you of the oak.<br/>
The fruit, a drupe with smooth skin and<br/>
large hairy stone, is three to five inches<br/>
long, two and a half inches wide, and one<br/>
to two thick. Unripe, it is used for pies<br/>
and puddings, resembling a sour green ap-<br/>
ple. But in its fall, golden, luscious yel-<br/>
low ripeness, it rivals the durian and man-<br/>
gosteen, and the finest peach.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tamarind, towering eighty to one<br/>
hundred feet, with large, far-reaching bran-<br/>
ches, thick green foliage, clusters of yel-<br/>
low crimson-veined flowers, and dark green<br/>
pods, is the pride of the forest, and of pa-<br/>
laces and temple-grounds. The acidulous<br/>
fruit, from the pods, is almost an essential<br/>
for the table, in curries and pastry, and as<br/>
a sauce for rice and meats. A beverage<br/>
distinctly cooling and refreshing, especi-<br/>
ally in sickness, is made from it, and it is<br/>
at all times valuable as a mild aperient.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such were some of the fruits and trees to<br/>
be found within a five minutes walk from<br/>
our bamboo cottage. They are but a few<br/>
of the long, rich, varied catalogne of the<br/>
country. The pomegranate, with its frag-<br/>
rant scarlet blossoms and mildly acid flav-<br/>
or; the orange, in twenty varieties, to<br/>
which acres on the Menam are devoted;<br/>
the lime, the excellent substitute for lemons;<br/>
the citron, the musk and water-melon; the<br/>
mienglak, a half tea-spoon of which (no<br/>
larger than a small shot) put into a very<br/>
little water, will presently fill the tumbler<br/>
with an agreeable drink; the lychee, the<br/>
rose-apple, the cashew, and many others of<br/>
name and natur more novel, we must pass.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scarcely less famed are the gardens of<br/>
Siam for vegetables. The great cereal and<br/>
staple of the country is rice. 'Hot corn!<br/>
hot corn!' cries the itinerant huckster,<br/>
laden with ears smoking in their green<br/>
husks; the snowy popped, too, and that<br/>
roasted, cut from the ear and sugared, find<br/>
much appreciative taste. But Indian corn<br/>
is little cultivated, and never for flour or<br/>
feeding. Far better, perfectly adapted to<br/>
tropic use, is that which the all-wise PRO-,<br/>
VIDENCE furnishes in such overflowing<br/>
abundance. Nowhere is the culture of rice<br/>
more facile or fruitful than in these rich,<br/>
warm, moist, at times, dain? unwatered<br/>
lowlands. The moderate labors of the<br/>
natives are repaid thirty to fifty-fold; the<br/>
export, should not more than one third of<br/>
the land be cultivated, and one crop instead<br/>
of the other two possible, is immense. Under<br/>
late treaties, the only official bar to export<br/>
is a failure of crop and threatened famine<br/>
(!) with royal proclamation thereof. There<br/>
are nearly as many varieties of wheat;<br/>
the highlands are much smaller and lighter,<br/>
the lowland more certain and prolific.<br/>
The more extensive rice fields lie on the<br/>
banks of the rivers or canals, and are first<br/>
cleared by axe and fire of trees and roots,<br/>
then surrounded by low embankments or<br/>
ridges of earth, with entering trenches. A<br/>
plough, hardly larger than one's hand, six<br/>
inches long and four wide at the top,<br/>
tapering round to the point, with a crooked<br/>
stick for beam and handle, and a buffalo<br/>
for team, scratches the ground to the depth<br/>
of three or four inches. This is followed<br/>
by a harrow, consisting of large boughs or<br/>
a small tree. In the soil thus prepared<br/>
the rice plants are in July or early August<br/>
transplanted from the smaller sowing plates,<br/>
the workmen as they walk, with foot or sick<br/>
making holes in the soft wet earth and<br/>
thrusting in handfuls. At flood-tide the<br/>
water is let in by the trenches, and the gates<br/>
are shut. In localities not easily thus reach-<br/>
ed, men, with large wooden scoops suspen-<br/>
ded from a frame, aid the filling of the tren-<br/>
ches. Or yet again you may sometimes see<br/>
the 'watering with the foot.' A large double<br/>
box or trough is placed on the bank at an<br/>
angle of forty-five degrees, or less. Through<br/>
this runs by a wheel at the head, an endless<br/>
chain with wooden paddles or floats, which<br/>
carry the water up through the under box,<br/>
and return empty through the upper. The<br/>
wheel is turned by men treading steps or<br/>
cogs in its long axle, and balancing them-<br/>
selves by aid of a bar before them. This<br/>
mode of irrigation is almost identical with<br/>
that described centuries ago by Philo.<br/>
The rice is kept under water till the kernel<br/>
is formed. The grain is cut about mid-<br/>
December, with a crooked, unseparated<br/>
stick, and is trodden out by buffaloes and<br/>
oxen, or on a smaller scale, beaten out<br/>
against the sides of the receiving boxes by<br/>
hand. It is winnowed by the wind and<br/>
basket-sieves or fans machines now common.<br/>
Table-rice is hulled by women and children<br/>
treading on the short arm of a long, hard-<br/>
headed lever playing in a frame, and farther<br/>
by pounding in mortars with pestles a<br/>
couple of yards long. It was retailed by<br/>
the itinerant boats at about thirty cents<br/>
per bucket of twenty quarts, or thirty<br/>
pounds good quality and measure. 'Cargo'<br/>
passes through the paddy mills, which are<br/>
largely owned and worked by Chinese.<br/>
The mill, of which there are several in one<br/>
establishment, consists of a heavy wooden<br/>
cylinder with grooved bottom, revolved<br/>
by horizontal hand-cranks on another<br/>
grooved block inclosed in basket-work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Paddy (unhulled rice) is also con-<br/>
siderable exports. Rice is the chief food<br/>
of the people. It is sometimes, though<br/>
rarely, ground, and then, as also our wheat<br/>
from Singapore, in the Scriptural manner,<br/>
by 'two women grinding at the mill', or<br/>
quern. Usually it is boiled, after washing<br/>
two or three times, for five or eight minutes,<br/>
then the water poured off, allowed to steam<br/>
in the same coarse earthen pot, over<br/>
gentle fire, for three-quarters of an hour.<br/>
Not softened to a paste, the kernel kept<br/>
whole, of the purest white, the rice does<br/>
not soil the fingers of those who use no<br/>
spoon, and has a tempting, and with the<br/>
golden curry beside it, irresistible look for<br/>
all. A very glutinous rice, with spices<br/>
conjured into a kind of cake, fermented,<br/>
and wrapped in bits of green plantain-leaf,<br/>
is sold by the street-side, admired by juv-<br/>
eniles, and not to be despised by adults,<br/>
native or foreign. From rice is distilled<br/>
the vile arrak, the principal intoxicating<br/>
beverage of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
GENERAL SUMMARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No scene more striking or impressive can<br/>
be conceived in a free country than the dis-<br/>
solution of one Parliament, and the imme-<br/>
diate arrangements made for summoning<br/>
another. The constitution provides for a<br/>
full representation of the people, and usage<br/>
prescribes that the legislative body shall<br/>
renewed without fail as often as its term<br/>
shall have lapsed. On the 6th July the<br/>
two Houses met, and heard the Queen's<br/>
Speech, in which her Majesty informed<br/>
them that the electors of the United King-<br/>
dom would soon be called upon again to<br/>
choose their representatives, adding a so-<br/>
lemn prayer that a blessing might attend<br/>
their proceedings. From this point of de-<br/>
parture, the elections may be said to have<br/>
been set in motion. On the same evening<br/>
the new writs were issued, and within a<br/>
week's time the constituencies will have re-<br/>
turned their representatives, the excitement<br/>
will be over, and the great constitutional<br/>
right, by which the people impart practical<br/>
force to public opinion, will have been dis-<br/>
charged, without the slightest attempt being<br/>
made to control or pervert it by the authori-<br/>
ties. The contrast with the course of<br/>
French election, which has hitherto been a<br/>
fruitless contest between power and the<br/>
masses, is not the least important reflection<br/>
our English system suggests. Whatever<br/>
inconvenience may accrue from a general<br/>
election; it affords at least satisfactory evid-<br/>
ence of the electors. So long as society<br/>
exists in its present forms, influences must<br/>
continue to operate in some quarters, nor<br/>
can the most stringent legislation reach<br/>
them; but what is common to society at<br/>
large, cannot be urged as an objection to<br/>
any particular social development; and the<br/>
elections in England yield conclusive proofs<br/>
that there is as much liberty of action<br/>
amongst the electors as can co-exist with<br/>
the conflict of interests and views seeking<br/>
to be represented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Speech from the Throne, delivered<br/>
by Commission, consisted mainly of con-<br/>
gratulations on the seal of Parliament and<br/>
an historical retrospect of the labours of the<br/>
Session. Her Majesty rejoices at the "con-<br/>
tinued tranquillity and increasing prosperi-<br/>
ty" of India—phrases which may be con-<br/>
dered by some people open to question—<br/>
and she regrets that the conferences with<br/>
the North American provinces have not led<br/>
to a satisfactory result; her Majesty rejoices<br/>
also that the war in America is over, and<br/>
is happy to say that she is on friendly re-<br/>
lations with foreign Powers; and then turn-<br/>
ing to the actual work of Session, she enu-<br/>
merates with justifiable approbation some<br/>
of the most important measures that have<br/>
been carried.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As there was nothing in this Speech to<br/>
call up the animosities of faction, as there<br/>
really no question before the constituen-<br/>
cies to give point to the elections. Reform<br/>
will be attempted, but it is only in particu-<br/>
lar places it is likely to turn a vote one way<br/>
or the other. The Church in many places<br/>
will be turned to account: and where Ro-<br/>
man Catholics most do congregate, Lord<br/>
Derby's injurious speech on the Oath—<br/>
Bill will, probably, damage the Conserva-<br/>
tives; but elsewhere, there will be little cap-<br/>
ital made out of the Church on either side.<br/>
Considering the absence of salient topics,<br/>
the elections are likely to be contested with<br/>
extraordinary animation. Wars and rum-<br/>
ours of wars are surging up around us; and<br/>
at the eleventh hour new candidates are<br/>
coming forward to vindicate the interests<br/>
of a party, or, in the verbiage of that style<br/>
of address which means nothing, to enable<br/>
independent electors to record their votes.<br/>
We do not remember on any former occas-<br/>
sion so many candidates in the field, or so<br/>
many formidable attempts to rout the Liber-<br/>
als in their strongholds. Amongst the<br/>
changes of seats which the new Parliament<br/>
will witness, that of Sir Charles Wood will<br/>
conspicuous. An effort has been made to<br/>
set him up again for Halifax, but Colonel<br/>
Akroyd not having manifested the least in-<br/>
tention of retiring, Sir Charles Wood has<br/>
steadily declined to stand again; and, for a<br/>
final refuge, thrown himself into the arms<br/>
of the electors of Ripon. In the metropoli<br/>
tan boroughs, and even in Westminster, the<br/>
City of London, and Middlesex, close bat-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tles are expected, and prophecies of unto-<br/>
ward events are freely circulated. But the<br/>
issue is so close at hand, that it is scarcely<br/>
worth while to indulge in such speculations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the midst of this political excitement<br/>
comes the case of Lord Westbury, which<br/>
has afforded occupation to two Parliamen-<br/>
tary Committees, and been treated with ex-<br/>
aggerated heat in the hope of damaging the<br/>
administration on the eve of the election.<br/>
The virtuous indignation of the Conservative<br/>
party which was expanded on that expect-<br/>
ation has failed. The more the charges<br/>
against Lord Westbury were investigated,<br/>
the more it became obvious that he had<br/>
acted with culpable indifference to the strict<br/>
administration of his grave functions, but<br/>
that he had not done so from corrupt mo-<br/>
tives. He had in fact gained nothing by<br/>
his misplaced leniency to official men who<br/>
deserved dismiss'd and received pensions at<br/>
his hands; but he had brought such discre-<br/>
dit on his high office, as to render it neces-<br/>
sary that he should resign. This was, in<br/>
effect, the substance of a vote of the House<br/>
of Commons, acquiesced in without a div-<br/>
ision by Lord Palmerston. It expressed<br/>
what must be regarded as the judgment of<br/>
the public, and the Government wisely ac-<br/>
cepted it as final. On the following morning<br/>
Lord Westbury placed his resignation in the<br/>
hands of the Prime Minister, and it is only<br/>
justice to him to add that he had been an-<br/>
xious to resign at an earlier period, but was<br/>
overruled by Lord Palmerston. No soon-<br/>
er had the offending functionary retired,<br/>
than the scandal went down into oblivion,<br/>
and the brief speech in which his lordship<br/>
took leave of the Wool sack was listened to<br/>
with profound attention. Lord Cranworth<br/>
has been appointed his successor. By this<br/>
appointment the country will be saved a<br/>
pension, and the labours of the Keeper of the<br/>
Seals will be confided to a man in whose<br/>
experience and competency all parties will<br/>
feel confidence. Lord Cranworth is 75<br/>
years of age, but is in perfect possession of<br/>
his mental and physical powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Almost the only scrap of news from<br/>
abroad that calls for special record is a re-<br/>
petition of the rumour that negotiations are<br/>
in progress for the recognition of Italy by<br/>
Spain—an arrangement to which the Pope<br/>
is said to offer no opposition. In all these<br/>
initial movements for a better understand-<br/>
ing amongst the governments of Europe,<br/>
his Holiness shows a most complying dis-<br/>
position; but when matters approach the<br/>
settlement of details, as in the case of the<br/>
Italian bishops, the antagonist spirit comes<br/>
It is natual enough, considering the<br/>
traditions of the Vatican, that the Pope<br/>
should be unwilling to part with the last<br/>
shreds of his dominion over the Kings of<br/>
the earth; and we should, therefore, prize<br/>
all the more such concessions as he has<br/>
manifested a disposition to approve.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Schleswig-Holstein dispute deepens<br/>
between Austria and Prussia.  Austria has<br/>
offered terms to Prussia, which Prussia has<br/>
indignantly rejected, although they includ-<br/>
ed the recognition of Kiel as a Prussian<br/>
naval station, and Rendsburg as a Federal<br/>
fortress with a Prussian garrison, conces-<br/>
sions which Austria never should have<br/>
made, and which it is fornuate Prussia has<br/>
refused. Herr von Bismarck's views with<br/>
respect to the Duchies appear to have be-<br/>
come more exorbitant in proportion as Aus-<br/>
tria has become more disinclined to give<br/>
up the claims of the Duke, and he has ac-<br/>
cordingly, not only declined to diminish<br/>
the number of his troops in the Duchies,<br/>
but refused to allow the people to express<br/>
by public demonstrations their wishes as to<br/>
their future sovereign.  He has gone so far<br/>
as to direct that martial law shall be pro-<br/>
claimed on the first attempt to make a de-<br/>
monstration in favour of the Duke of Au-<br/>
gustenburg.  In this case, what can Austria<br/>
do? Literally nothing.  She has remon-<br/>
strated; But her remonstrances are waste-<br/>
paper.  Prussia occupies the Duchies, and<br/>
will keep them at the point of the sword.<br/>
Nothing short of a war will expel her; and<br/>
who is to take the initiative?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The experiment of the new Austrian<br/>
Cabinet has not yet been long enough in<br/>
operation to enable the world to judge of its<br/>
probable fate.  It is something, however,<br/>
to know that it is in favour of more liberal<br/>
views than its predecessor, and that, for the<br/>
first time, a serious and sincere attempt will<br/>
be made to find out a path to reconciliation<br/>
with Hungary.  The merit of this import-<br/>
ant movement belongs exclusively to the<br/>
Emperor, who, having on his return from<br/>
Pesh, communicated to Von Schmerling<br/>
his desire to terminate the provisional state<br/>
of things in Hungary, and finding that the<br/>
minister was opposed to his views, announ-<br/>
ced his determination to take the matter<br/>
into his own hands. This was as much as<br/>
to intimate to Von Schmerling the neces-<br/>
sity of resigning, to make room for an ad-<br/>
ministration prepared to carry out his Maj-<br/>
esty's policy. The hint was taken, and the<br/>
new ministry have taken office with a full<br/>
consciousness of the responsibility before<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After occupying nearly a week, the trial<br/>
of Dr. Pritchard, in Glasgow, for poisoning<br/>
his wife and his wife's mother, has been<br/>
brought to a close. The medical evidence was<br/>
conclusive as to the fact of poisoning, which<br/>
had been evidently going on slowly for some<br/>
time. There were only two persons who,<br/>
from their position in the house, were open<br/>
to suspicion-—a young servant girl with<br/>
whom Dr. Pritchard had formed a crimin-<br/>
al intimacy, and to whom he had promised<br/>
marriage in the event of his wife's death;<br/>
and Dr. Pritchard himself. With respect<br/>
to the former, no criminating circumstances<br/>
were brought to light; but, with respect to<br/>
the latter, although no adequate motive<br/>
could be traced for the commission of the<br/>
murders, and notwithstanding that the re-<br/>
latives of the murdered ladies appeared on<br/>
his behalf, there were certain incidents<br/>
which left no moral doubt of his guilt—-he<br/>
alone had an interest in their death, and<br/>
only he could have poisoned them as they<br/>
were poisoned; he misrepresented their ill-<br/>
ness, and made false reports to the registrar.<br/>
After an absence of an hour from court, the<br/>
jury found the prisoner guilty, and the judges<br/>
sentenced him to be executed on July 28.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_5_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest Intelligence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Intelligence from New York to the noon<br/>
of the 28th June says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from the South describe the<br/>
desolation marking the line of Sherman's<br/>
march, and all the adjacent country. The<br/>
inhabitants are threatened with starvation,<br/>
as nearly all barns and farming implements<br/>
have been destroyed and the live stock<br/>
driven off. General Wilson telegraphs that<br/>
he can with great difficulty procure scanty<br/>
rations for his men, and predicts a famine<br/>
unless supplies are at once sent to the de-<br/>
vastated regions. A correspondent of the<br/>
'New York Herald' represents the condit-<br/>
ion of South Carolina to be truly pitiable.<br/>
In Columbia, once considered the most<br/>
elegant city of its size in the country, the<br/>
inhabitants, from the highest to the lowest,<br/>
were existing in a condition of the most ab-<br/>
ject poverty, and no attempt was being<br/>
made to rebuild the city. The same cor-<br/>
respondent, whose account is indeed cor-<br/>
roborated by several others, states that the<br/>
people of that section admit themselves<br/>
conquered, but declare openly their hatred<br/>
for the North. It is said to be generally ad-<br/>
mitted that the planters, considering their<br/>
present condition, are better off without<br/>
their slaves. The mortality among the<br/>
freedmen is still reported to be very great,<br/>
although the authorities are making every<br/>
exertion to ameliorate their condition. In<br/>
Georgia and North Carolina the state of af-<br/>
fairs is rather more promising, but is never-<br/>
theless deplorable. A correspondent says—<br/>
Throughout this vast region the tall, black-<br/>
ened chimneys, obliterated railroads, the<br/>
ashes of barns and fences, misery and de-<br/>
solation mark the course of the avenging<br/>
army, and the prospect of the inhabitants<br/>
is truly poor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report is confirmed that the health<br/>
of Mr. Jefferson Davis is much improved.<br/>
He is now allowed whatever food he wish-<br/>
es, but is still kept closely confined, and is<br/>
permitted the use of no books or papers be-<br/>
yond the Holy Bible and a Prayer-book.<br/>
Nothing further has transpired in relation<br/>
to his proposed trial for treason. "Mrs.<br/>
Davis," so says a correspondent of the<br/>
'New York Herald,' "is living in Savannah in a<br/>
destitute condition, without money or pro-<br/>
per clothing, and without any servant to<br/>
aid her in taking care of her young child-<br/>
ren."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Richmond Bulletin' states that it<br/>
is reported to be a fact by men of influence<br/>
that James Gordon Bennett, of the 'New<br/>
York Herald,' in the beginning of the war,<br/>
wrote to Mr. Davis, the then Confederate<br/>
President, offering to support his govern-<br/>
ment for the sum of £50,000 sterling. The<br/>
'New York World' and 'New York News'<br/>
editorially endorse the truth of the state-<br/>
ment. The 'World' say, on the authority<br/>
of "a gentleman, whose word would not<br/>
be doubted were we to mention his name,"<br/>
that Mr. Bennett stipulated that the £50,<br/>
000 should be deposited to his credit a-<br/>
broad, and that the Confederate govern-<br/>
ment should indemnify him for any losses<br/>
sustained in advocating its cause, but that<br/>
Mr. Davis declined the offer, and favoured<br/>
the establishment of the London "Index."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson was suffering from in-<br/>
disposition, resulting from excessive fatigue.<br/>
Mr. Frederick W. Seward was still improv-<br/>
ing, and was able to walk from one cham-<br/>
ber to another for the first time since his<br/>
injuries were inflicted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was reported that the Freedman's<br/>
Bureau has set apart a large quantity of<br/>
confiscated and abandoned land in the<br/>
South in tracts of various sizes, and in<br/>
various localities, for the especial benefit<br/>
of negroes. Not less than 100,000 are now<br/>
subsisting on government rations in the<br/>
State of Virginia alone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'New York Herald' says:—"All<br/>
the trade restrictions of the war having<br/>
been removed from the late rebellious States,<br/>
including Arkansas, Western Louisiana,<br/>
and Texas, we may soon expect large ar-<br/>
rivals of cotton on the seaboard en route<br/>
for England. There are probably about as<br/>
many as 2,000,000 bales of cotton scattered<br/>
about in holes and corners throughout<br/>
the South, and those who have it to sell<br/>
and those who are seeking to buy should<br/>
assist each other in bringing it out; and<br/>
for the relief of the Southern people the<br/>
government in every available way should<br/>
assist them in getting their cotton to market,<br/>
and every other staple of Southern pro-<br/>
duce they may have to exchange for bread<br/>
and clothing. The necessities of the suffer-<br/>
ing Southern people are urgent, and call for<br/>
immediate relief. Thousands of those peo-<br/>
ple are famishing while the means of relief<br/>
are all around them, needing only purchas-<br/>
ers and bread and clothing in exchange."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The army of the Potomac, which origin-<br/>
ally consisted of seven corps, and which at<br/>
one time numbered over 300,000 men, was<br/>
about to be reduced, by the instructions of<br/>
the War Department, to three divisions of<br/>
about 16,000 all together.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_6_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported in Paris there is to be a<br/>
reduction of the French army by about<br/>
30,000 men, a proceeding which will relieve<br/>
the exchequer to the amount of 30 million<br/>
francs, besides affording an additional<br/>
evidence of the pacific tendency of the<br/>
French government. Marshal MacMahon<br/>
has arrived in Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Treaty of Commerce and navigation<br/>
between France and Holland was signed<br/>
yesterday at the Hague, and will be present<br/>
ed on Monday next to the States General.<br/>
It is stated that the Russian government<br/>
has recalled to St. Petersburg M. Balch,<br/>
the attaché who was the victim of the out-<br/>
rage at the Russian embassy in Paris on the<br/>
24th of April last. The recall has been<br/>
occasioned by the French refusal of the<br/>
Cabinet to give up the author of the crime<br/>
to the Russian authorities, on the demand<br/>
of Baron de Budberg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Italy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government has presented a report<br/>
to the king upon the recent negotiation<br/>
with Rome. The negotiations it appears<br/>
were adopted at the request of the Pope,<br/>
the Italian government stipulating that the<br/>
conferences should be strictly confined to<br/>
filling the vacant sees and other ecclesiastical<br/>
matters, all political questions being<br/>
entirely excluded. At the commencement of<br/>
the negotiations the Papal government<br/>
exhibited a conciliatory disposition, and<br/>
hopes were entertained of a favorable con-<br/>
clusion to the conferences; but subsequent-<br/>
ly, some unknown influence was brought to<br/>
bear upon the Papal government presented<br/>
the successful issue of the negotiations,<br/>
which were finally broked up by the reject-<br/>
tion of the proposals relative to the oath of<br/>
bishops and the execuqatur. The Italian<br/>
government, nevertheless, declared that it<br/>
would have consented to the return of the<br/>
bishop if it would not cause inconvenience.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Austria.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The evening official journal of Vienna of<br/>
July 8 denies the rumours current in refer-<br/>
ence to the ministerial crisis, and states that<br/>
none of the resignations tendered by the<br/>
former ministers have been accepted, except<br/>
that of Count Zichy. The same paper adds<br/>
that the present ministry will remain in of-<br/>
fice until the conclusion of the financial de-<br/>
bates in the Reichsrath.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Augsburg Gazette' gives the analy-<br/>
sis of an Austrian despatch, which states that<br/>
sensible diminution has been effected in<br/>
the antipathy hitherto manifested by the<br/>
cabinet of Vienna against the candidature<br/>
of the Grand Duke of Oldenburg. The<br/>
Austrian government now declares itself<br/>
ready to di?cuss with Prussia the grand<br/>
duke's claims, whereas formerly it would<br/>
sanction only that of the Prince of August-<br/>
enburg. The grand duke is said to be<br/>
shortly expected at Vienna.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Spain.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram from Madrid announces that<br/>
Senor Bernades Castro, Minister for For-<br/>
eign Affairs, has addressed a despatch to the<br/>
Spanish ambassador at Rome, announcing<br/>
that the Spanish government recognises the<br/>
kingdom of Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sitting of the Cortes will close on<br/>
the 15th July, after which date the most<br/>
important diplomatic nominations will be<br/>
made. The dissolution of the Cortes will<br/>
take place in September.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government has given up the Stone-<br/>
wall Confederate cruiser, which had been<br/>
delivered over to the Cuban authorities<br/>
some time ago, to the United States of<br/>
America, in conformity with the demand<br/>
recently made in the despatches of Mr.<br/>
Seward to the European governments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Home News July 10th
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tuileries
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from page 145)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was about the middle of Nov. that one<br/>
of a number of workmen who had been em-<br/>
ployed to execute certain repairs in the<br/>
Tuileries, discovered an iron chest conceal-<br/>
ed in the wall of one of the rooms, which<br/>
being opened by order of the minister, was<br/>
found to contain papers relating to the rev-<br/>
olution. Upon a closer examination of<br/>
these manuscripts several of them turned<br/>
out to refer to certain projects of the royal-<br/>
ists for restoring the king's authority, and<br/>
even to intrigues, which had been entered<br/>
into for that purpose by the Court, with<br/>
some of the most eminent of the popular<br/>
leaders. These were the documents which<br/>
contained certain proofs of Mirabean's<br/>
treachery to the cause of the revolution.<br/>
The discovery and publication of the con-<br/>
tents of this iron chest had a most power-<br/>
ful effect in precipitating the sad fate of the<br/>
king. The business of bringing him to the<br/>
block was now a smooth and easy one. On<br/>
the 11th of Dec. he was called for the first<br/>
time to the bar of the Convention. He<br/>
made his appearance about 2 o'clock in the<br/>
afternoon. Having been permitted to place<br/>
himself in a chair, he was asked a succes-<br/>
sion of questions by the President, all of<br/>
which he answered with precision and com-<br/>
posure. The papers found in the iron chest,<br/>
and others on which the accusations against<br/>
him were founded, were then put one by<br/>
one into his hand, and he was asked in re-<br/>
gard to each if he acknowledged it. He<br/>
disavowed many of them. This examina-<br/>
tion lasted for three hours.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 25th Louis again appeared at the<br/>
bar, accompanied by his counsel M. M. de<br/>
Ma?herbes, Tronchet and Deseze, to make<br/>
his defence. On entering the Hall at eight<br/>
o'clock in the morning those Deputies who<br/>
were suspected of being favorably disposed<br/>
to the accused, were insulted by the people.<br/>
The galleries were also found to be filled<br/>
with people who had remained there all the<br/>
night previous.  The king on being called<br/>
up for his defense pointed to his counsel,<br/>
and M. Desdéy arose and addressed the<br/>
Convention in a speech distinguished by its<br/>
eloquence and fearlessness.  On its con-<br/>
clusion Louis again retired.  A very stormy<br/>
debate amidst fearful outcries then took<br/>
place.  Was Louis guilty or not guilty?<br/>
On this question all the members present,<br/>
six hundred and ninety three in number,<br/>
voted in the affirmative.  When it was as-<br/>
certained how the vote stood, the penalty<br/>
of death was pronounced by the Conven-<br/>
tion against Louis Capet.  The sentence<br/>
that passed on the king was a victory gained<br/>
by the Girondists the more violent party of<br/>
the Convention.  In the course of the next<br/>
three or four months, the legislative body<br/>
was subject to various attacks by the rabble.<br/>
of the Faubourg. One of the most memora-<br/>
ble of the days thus distinguished, was the<br/>
first of May when a mob of about two hun-<br/>
dred women first presented themselves at<br/>
the bar of the Convention, which was now<br/>
sitting in the Palace of the Tuileries. These<br/>
petitioners, as they called themselves, advan-<br/>
ced into the Hall with banners in their<br/>
hands, announcing their demands, and head-<br/>
ed by a leader who read an address, which<br/>
was intended to tell them, she said, "des<br/>
vérités dures," some hard truths. "You<br/>
republicans" also went on to say, "know<br/>
how to govern—Lile vagrants you make<br/>
promises but to break them. What have<br/>
you done since you have met in this Hall?"<br/>
After going on in this style for a consider-<br/>
able time, the orator concluded by inform-<br/>
ing the patient auditors that if their demands<br/>
were not immediately acceded to, she and<br/>
her followers declared themselves in a state<br/>
of insurrection. After having vented their<br/>
wrath in all manner of insult and outrage,<br/>
these women retired but to reappear again,<br/>
on the 37th. On that day an augmented<br/>
mob of fanatic furies, about 2.000 in num-<br/>
ber, presented themselves surrounding all<br/>
the entrances to the Legislative Chamber.<br/>
These petticoat politicians, were headed on<br/>
this occasion by a woman named Leonie,<br/>
and the circumstance of there being no men<br/>
among them gave occasion to its being said,<br/>
that assuredly, "était tombée en quenouille,"<br/>
had fallen to be inherited by the distaff, as<br/>
it may be translated. The debate was one<br/>
of unprecedented violence. The party named<br/>
the Mountain did not confine themselves<br/>
to their usual practice of roaring down their<br/>
opponents, in which on this occasion, they<br/>
were wonderfully aided by the shrill voices<br/>
of the women from without, and from the<br/>
gallery within, but some of them actually<br/>
laid other members prostrate by dealing<br/>
them blows on the breast with their clin-<br/>
ched fists, thus enforcing their propositions<br/>
by blows and the most furious outcries. It<br/>
was a scene of unparalleled outrage upon all<br/>
the forms of order and government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 31st the insurrection again broke<br/>
out in one of its most hidous aspects,<br/>
On that morning the tocsin sounded from<br/>
every steeple in Paris, and in every street<br/>
the drums beat to arms, and in a short time<br/>
a mob of infuriated women had collected<br/>
at every entrance to the Hall of the Con-<br/>
vention, by whom every member as he ap-<br/>
proached was subjected to abuse. Multitudes<br/>
of men too, armed with sticks and spikes,<br/>
and afterwards several bands of military,<br/>
arrived till at last it had grown into an im-<br/>
mense army. The Tuileries was on that<br/>
day besieged by a force of full eighty<br/>
thousand all of whom were armed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Convention had opened at 8 o'clock,<br/>
but the members assembled, are long found<br/>
themselves imprisoned within their Hall.<br/>
When any of them attempted to go forth,<br/>
they were met at the door by pointed bay-<br/>
onets and driven back, often with having had<br/>
their clothes torn off and severely beaten.<br/>
When the unfortunate representatives found<br/>
the state in which they were placed a vio-<br/>
lent debate arose,—Lanjuinais one of the<br/>
twenty five Girondist leaders, whose<br/>
heads had been demanded, by the popu-<br/>
lace, mounting the tribune, denounced with<br/>
vehement eloquence the ultra democratic<br/>
party who had instigated these terrible<br/>
excesses. "Legislators" he exclaimed, "the<br/>
truth is no longer to be disguised; another<br/>
authority has usurped your functions, and<br/>
you are now invested by its hired bands"<br/>
The members of the mountain here endea-<br/>
voured to drown the voice of the orator with<br/>
outcries of unparalleled fury—at last Legend-<br/>
re, a member of the mountain, sprung up<br/>
to the tribune, and placing himself by his side,<br/>
not only assailed him with the most pas-<br/>
sionate reproaches, but aimed a rapid suc-<br/>
cession of blows at his head with his clinch-<br/>
ed fist. On seeing this, a deputation<br/>
from the mob entered and demanded that<br/>
a number of the deputies whom they named,<br/>
should be surrendered to them. To elude if<br/>
possible the well understood aim of the<br/>
authors of this proposal, it was moved at<br/>
once that the obnoxious deputies should<br/>
voluntarily resign the powers with which<br/>
they were invested, into the hands of the<br/>
mob, who would then take them under their<br/>
protection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as they had once more taken<br/>
their seats, Couthon rose, and pointing to<br/>
the vacated seats observed, with matchless<br/>
effrontary, that from all they had just seen<br/>
the assembly must at last be convinced that<br/>
their deliberations were perfectly free. This<br/>
ready acquiescence in their own degradation.<br/>
was however of little avail in saving them<br/>
from a worse fate. Within a few months<br/>
all of them were brought to the guillotine.<br/>
And thus terminated a day which may be<br/>
described as one of the most humiliating in<br/>
the annals of France. The succeeding four-<br/>
teen months form the dark period of the<br/>
domination of Robespierre, of which we<br/>
intend hereafter to give a sketch in conec-<br/>
tion with the Place Louis XV.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the abolition of Royalty the garden<br/>
of the Tuileries received the name of the<br/>
National garden. It was here that imposingly<br/>
famous and blasphemous festival to the sup-<br/>
reme Being was celebrated on the 8th June<br/>
1794.—"The day was serene and beautiful,<br/>
the sun rose with a grandeur unparalleled,<br/>
even in the far east, the air was soft and<br/>
mild as when Zephyrs on Flora breathes,<br/>
and all nature was hushed into stillness if<br/>
not into repose," says our disarming histor-<br/>
ian. "The furious throngs of angry men<br/>
and women rushing hither and thither with<br/>
frantic cries and curses were no longer<br/>
heard. The hellish war of the inhuman mob<br/>
had indeed subsided, but alas twas only to<br/>
sleep off the intoxication of the night<br/>
in order to fit them for the blacker crime<br/>
of the succeeding day. " At the moment of<br/>
sunrise military music and the rapid firing<br/>
of cannon, announced the coming solem-<br/>
nity. Very soon bands of men, women and<br/>
children were seen approaching from the<br/>
different sections, the men bearing branches<br/>
of oak, and the women and children bou-<br/>
quetes of flowers in their hands-while along<br/>
the streets through which they passed all<br/>
the fronts of the houses were being hung<br/>
with blooming garlands, tricolored banners,<br/>
or draperies. The different columns of the<br/>
people had arranged themselves in a station<br/>
appointed for them at a short distance from<br/>
the palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The members of the Convention then<br/>
came forth in procession from the central<br/>
pavilion preceded by a numerous band of<br/>
musicians and took their places in an ele-<br/>
vated spacious amphitheatre which had<br/>
been erected against the palace wall. Rob-<br/>
espierre as President, then rose and mount-<br/>
ing a rostrum, delivered an address spe-<br/>
cious and flattering to the people, in com-<br/>
mendation of the new religion, " The<br/>
French National Faith" the establish-<br/>
ment of which they had met together, as a<br/>
nation, solemnly to celebrate. A symphony<br/>
performed by several bands of musicians<br/>
followed his oration. When this was over<br/>
Robespierre taking a lighted torch in his<br/>
hand descended from the amphitheatre and<br/>
advanced towards a group of figures repre-<br/>
senting Atheism, Ambition, Egoism, and<br/>
Discord, which stood together in the cir-<br/>
cular basis of the parterre, and applying his<br/>
torch to this allegorical group he set it on<br/>
fire. The figures disappeared in a blaze,<br/>
and the cloud of smoke that succeeded<br/>
gradually cleared away there were seen em-<br/>
erging from the bright and majestic figure of<br/>
Wisdom. After this spectacle Robespierre<br/>
again harangued the people. Tho whole As-<br/>
sembly then marched in procession with<br/>
music playing and banners flying to the<br/>
Champ de Mars, or as it was then called the<br/>
Champ de la Reunion, where other cerimo-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
* Exquises Historiques.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
nies were performed and hymns chanted.<br/>
They afterwards returned to the Tuileries<br/>
in similiar array, where they passed the<br/>
entire day in dancing and other festivities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pride, pomp and circumstance of<br/>
this impious festival had hardly vanished<br/>
from the gaze of this giddy people, when<br/>
the first mutterings became audible of the<br/>
tempest that was to overthrow Robespierre<br/>
and his associates, and restore once more<br/>
something like liberty and hope to France.<br/>
The leaders of the people were everywhere<br/>
triumphant—sixty of the unfortunate dep-<br/>
uties were condemned and executed on<br/>
the guillotine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another military demonstration, and the<br/>
last we would here mention in concluding<br/>
our sketch of the Tuileries, occurred on the<br/>
famous 18th Brumaire, the 8th or 9th Nov.<br/>
1799, when Bonaparte seized the govern-<br/>
ment, and compelled the new Assembly to<br/>
transfer its sitting elsewhere. The palace<br/>
of the Tuileries soon after became the resi-<br/>
dence of Bonaparte, and ere long its Halls<br/>
were once more revisited by the pomp and<br/>
brilliancy of a Court. The spirit of the old<br/>
system, however, continued nearly unim-<br/>
paired throughout the whole of his day,<br/>
and even to the present reign; and many<br/>
sagacious observers are not without their<br/>
anticipations of a coming revolution in<br/>
France. In a work of some celebrity "Plato<br/>
Redivivus" lately revised by one of our<br/>
old English republicans, the author in the<br/>
course of his great argument says "that all<br/>
good and stable governments is necessaril-<br/>
ly founded on the recognition of the rights<br/>
of the people;" Having occasion to refer to<br/>
the case of France, he remarks "we may sup-<br/>
pose that the great power of the Emperor<br/>
of France must diminish much when his<br/>
enraged and oppressed subjects come to be<br/>
commanded by a ruler of less tact, wisdom<br/>
and military virtue. It will be very difficult<br/>
for any such prince to govern tyrannically a<br/>
country not entirely his own.” He after-<br/>
wards in examining the subject at greater<br/>
length characterizes the existing French<br/>
government as one of those violent states<br/>
which the Grecians designated “Tyrannes”<br/>
and proceeds to prove, that such a govern-<br/>
ment being violent, is not natural, but con-<br/>
trary to the interests of the people, and<br/>
cannot be lasting, but must fail when the<br/>
adventitious props which support it fail,-and<br/>
that whilst it does endure it must be very<br/>
uneasy both to prince and people,—the form-<br/>
er being necessitated to continued acts of<br/>
oppression, and the latter to suffer them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
People's Names.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are above a quarter of million of<br/>
persons in England and Wales bearing the<br/>
cosmopolitan surname of Smith, and above<br/>
45,000 persons in Scotland. If you meet<br/>
seventy-three persons in England, or even<br/>
sixty-eight in Scotland, you may expect to<br/>
find a Smith among them. Next to Smith<br/>
there comes in each country a purely local<br/>
name - Jones in England and Wales, Mac-<br/>
donald in Scotland; in every seventy-eight<br/>
persons in Scotland there is a Macdonald.<br/>
The next most common names in England<br/>
are: Williams, Taylor, Davis, and Brown;<br/>
in Scotland, Brown occupies a very high<br/>
numerical position, but several purely Scot-<br/>
tish names also stand high upon the list—<br/>
Robertson, Stewart, Campbell, Anderson.<br/>
There is a much greater clan predominance<br/>
of surnames in Scotland than in England.<br/>
There are in both countries many surnames<br/>
derived from occupation, locality, or per-<br/>
sonal qualities; while in England, in the<br/>
fifty most common surnames, only twenty-<br/>
seven, in Scotland, thirty-seven—the great<br/>
majority—are real patronymics and truly<br/>
surnames, either in their pure, unaltered<br/>
state, as Grant, Cameron, &c., or altered so<br/>
as to express the descent, as in Robertson<br/>
and Morrison, or with the Gaelic Mac. A<br/>
recent examination of the birth register of<br/>
Scotland for a year showed 104,018 births<br/>
and only 6,823 surnames; so that there<br/>
are more than 15 persons, upon an average,<br/>
to a surname, or only 6.5 surnames, to 100<br/>
persons. In England, a similar examina-<br/>
tion by the Registrar-General showed only<br/>
8.4 persons to a surname, or 12 surnames<br/>
to 100 persons. The proportion of persons<br/>
attached to each surname would have been<br/>
still larger in Scotland, and more than<br/>
double that of England, but for the im-<br/>
mense immigration from Ireland in the last<br/>
quarter of a century. In the Scottish reg-<br/>
isters the 50 most common surnames em-<br/>
brace nearly 30 [per]cent. of all the names<br/>
on the register; in England only about 18<br/>
[per]cent. Of the 50 most common surnames<br/>
in Scotland, 32 either entirely or in the<br/>
form in which they occur in Scotland may<br/>
be reckoned as having originated in that<br/>
country and as being peculiar to it—a very<br/>
large proportion, considering all circum-<br/>
stance. The remainder are common also<br/>
to England. The sobringets perpetuated<br/>
as surnames from a supposed likeness to<br/>
the animal creation of course vary in Eng-<br/>
land and Scotland with the language of<br/>
each country. English Fox is superseded<br/>
in Scotland by Tod, a very common name,<br/>
having the same meaning. Bullock be-<br/>
comes Stott, and Crow Craw. Hogg in<br/>
Scotland is not to be traced to pig, but a<br/>
lamb a year old. Mr. Stock, of the Scot-<br/>
tish Register office, from whose Sixth An-<br/>
nual Report (just issued) these statements<br/>
are taken, has also had the curiosity to<br/>
note the Christian names, occurring upon<br/>
the registers. In 3,590 entries of births<br/>
of boys there were only 67 different Chris-<br/>
tian names, but among alike number of<br/>
girls there were 86. John and James great-<br/>
ly preponderate among the boys. Among<br/>
the girls Margaret is the favorite name, but<br/>
Mary is very close to it. In the Highland<br/>
clans Mary decidedly preponderates, but<br/>
Margaret in all other parts of Scotland.<br/>
Several names not uncommon among girls<br/>
in England did not occur as many as three<br/>
times in the entire Scottish list of 3,680<br/>
—Beatrice, Clara, Emma, Julia, Lucy; and<br/>
among the 3,690 boys there were not three<br/>
with either of several of our common Eng-<br/>
lish names—Alfred, Arthur, Benjamin,<br/>
Frederick, Philip, Stephen. The girls' list<br/>
shows many variations from what we should<br/>
find in England; there are twice as many<br/>
Elspeths as Emilys, twice as many Mar-<br/>
jorys as Louisas, four times as many Euph-<br/>
emias as Harriets, five times as many Graces<br/>
as Carolines.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_8_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Distinguished Southerner.—-
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
  The New-York Sun, of May 25th, says:<br/>
"Yesterday a distinguished rebel, long in<br/>
the 'Confederate service at Richmond, ap-<br/>
peared in our streets, attracting a good<br/>
deal of attention from spectators, namely,<br/>
the famous Russian bloodhound 'Hero',<br/>
who during the war had helped to guard<br/>
the prisoners in Castle Thunder, and be-<br/>
sides barking at Southern Union men, had<br/>
been taught to growl at a Federal uniform<br/>
whenever seen and by whomsoever worn.<br/>
He has got over that since his capture and<br/>
parole under the terms of Lee's surrender.<br/>
'Hero' is four feet in height, and can<br/>
readily take his food from an ordinary<br/>
table. He measures seven feet from his<br/>
nose to the tip of his tail, and forty-two<br/>
inches round the chest, and weighs 180<br/>
pounds. Ten pounds of beef and as much<br/>
mutton, with half a gallon of water, are<br/>
consumed by this brute at one meal, and<br/>
the way he shows his teeth is annoying to<br/>
nervous people. He belonged to one of<br/>
the F. F. V.'s, but has been duly confiscat-<br/>
ed to the U. S. authorities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"FACT, gentlemen," said a traveler, who<br/>
was giving a crowd of gaping listeners an<br/>
account of the strange things he had seen<br/>
during his peregrinations in the far West,<br/>
"the trees are so close together in Arkansas<br/>
that you may travel for days together without<br/>
finding them more than three feet apart ;<br/>
and then the game ! such vast numbers of<br/>
buffalo, and bears, and wild cats, but in all<br/>
the world I never saw such deer!"—"What<br/>
of the deer?" asked a sharp-eyed descen-<br/>
dant of Nimrod.—"Oh, the biggest, bouncing<br/>
bucks you ever saw," was the reply.<br/>
—"Why, my dear sir, the woods are per-<br/>
fectly alive with them, charging about with<br/>
great, branching horns full four feet apart."<br/>
—"Well, but if the trees are only three feet<br/>
apart, and the deer's horns four, I want<br/>
you to tell me how they get through?" said<br/>
Nimrod—"Oh, well, that's their look out."<br/>
said the traveler. "I have nothing to do<br/>
with that."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-04-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bekanntmachung.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Der Unterzeichnete bringt es hiermit<br/>
zur öffentlichen Kenntniss, dass er zum<br/>
Königl. Preussischen Consul für Siam<br/>
ernannt ist und vom heutigen Datum seine<br/>
Functionen als solcher angetreten hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unterthanen der folgenden Staaten kom<br/>
men demnach laut des mit Siam durch<br/>
Preussen abgeschlossenen Vertrages un-<br/>
ter seine Jurisdiction: Preussen, Mec-<br/>
klenburg Schwerin, Mecklenburg Stre-<br/>
litz, Bayern, Sachsen, Hannover, Würtem-<br/>
berg, Baden, Kurfürstenthum-Hessen.<br/>
Grossherzogthum-Hessen, Sachsen-Wei-<br/>
mar Eisenach, Sachsen Meiningen, Sach-<br/>
sen Altenburg, Sachsen Koburg Gotha,<br/>
Schwarzburg Rudolstadt, Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen, Reuss ältere Linie und<br/>
Reuss jüngere Linie, Braunschweig, Old-<br/>
enburg, Nassau und die freie Stadt<br/>
Frankfurt, und werden hier ansässige<br/>
Unterthanen der genannten Staaten hier-<br/>
mit aufgefordert, sich innerhalb vierzehn<br/>
Tagen zwischen 10 und vier Uhr, Neu-<br/>
Ankommende innerhalb vierzehn Tagen<br/>
nach Ankunft, behufs Registrirung im<br/>
Consulat zu melden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Laut ministeriellem Erlaß, datirt Berlin<br/>
16 Nov. 1864, wird Unterthanen der Her-<br/>
zogthümer Schleswig, Holstein und Lauen-<br/>
burg, nachdem diese laut dem Wiener<br/>
Vertrag vom 30 Oct. v. J. in den Besitz<br/>
von Preussen und Oestreich übergegangen,<br/>
auf ihr Ersuchen, der Preussische Schutz<br/>
verliehen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Königlich Preussisches Consulat zu<br/>
Bangkok, den ersten April 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PAUL LESSLER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rice crop in Petchaburee.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By advices from Petchaburee under date<br/>
of Aug. 24th we learn that the people were<br/>
then becoming very anxious again for the<br/>
safety of their rice crops—-that for the<br/>
week proceeding, there had fallen scarcely<br/>
a drop of rain, and that the rice fields were<br/>
getting quite dry, the water in the river<br/>
not having risen sufficiently to flow out in<br/>
to the fields.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our informant says that it is estimated<br/>
that about one fourth of the rice fields re-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
mained them unplanted; and that if the<br/>
three fourths do well, it will be a much better<br/>
result than that of last year when only one<br/>
fourth of the usual crop was obtained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He adds that "the people have been<br/>
very diligent in feeding the priests and re-<br/>
hearsing their incantations for rain."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such extraordinary efforts to avert the<br/>
great calamity feared, are any thing but<br/>
hopeful and cheering to Christian mer-<br/>
chants in Bangkok and elsewhere who are<br/>
anxiously waiting for the next Siamese rice<br/>
harvest.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_10_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A MALE native of Michigan' is now de-<br/>
nominated a Michigander, while his female<br/>
mate is called a Michigoose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why, Bridget!" said a lady who wish-<br/>
ed to rally her servant girl, for the amuse-<br/>
ment of the company, upon the fantastic<br/>
ornamenting of a huge pie, "did you do<br/>
this! You 're quite an artist; pray how did<br/>
you do it?"—"Indade, mum, it was myself<br/>
that did it," replied Bridget. "isn't it<br/>
pertty! I did it with your old false teeth,<br/>
mum."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-01_10_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r9c">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST SEP. 1ST 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rda">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Aug.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Cummings</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Aug.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Julia Ana</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Leonard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Siam Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">467</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Radame</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Mc. Kenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">368</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">British Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amelie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Garmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Kestrel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Hicks</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">H.B.M.C. yacht</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r04">
        <p class="r01"><b>SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Booek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">713</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Banhnet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Logger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gevers</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">M. Alie Keyematy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hawk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">162</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Sewn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Gerdes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cummings</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maclean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Leyser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Pontianak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Graswinckel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">790</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Leet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Radame</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mc. Kenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">384</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">740</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Triton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">791</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Putaskio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
