---
linkTitle: 'March 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 1st'
date: 2025-11-22T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 4
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY MARCH 1st 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 4</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a former article I incidentally refered<br/>
to the oil regions in some parts of the<br/>
United States, and suggested that oil might<br/>
possibly he found in Siam, but by doing<br/>
so I have apparently got myself into a<br/>
difficulty; for it seems to be taken for<br/>
granted by those in authority, that I ought<br/>
also to be able to point out exactly where<br/>
oil may be found. This however is much<br/>
more than I bargained for, and is far<br/>
beyond my ability.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When I left the United States the oil<br/>
business was in its infancy, and I have<br/>
never had the pleasure of visiting the oil<br/>
regions. It will be perceived therefore,<br/>
that my knowledge of those regions, except<br/>
so far as received through newspapers is<br/>
rather limited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that Petroleum was first col-<br/>
lected in those regions, in small quantities,<br/>
as it oozed from the crevices of the rocks.<br/>
Sometimes it was found floating upon the<br/>
surface of the water, and lifted with a com-<br/>
mon skimmer, or with a wooden cloth,<br/>
which was laid upon the water, and when<br/>
it became saturated with oil, it was rung<br/>
out into a vessel Holes were also dug in<br/>
the sand on the edge of the rivers, and<br/>
when filled with water, the oil was collected<br/>
from the surface.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The idea was then conceived of sinking<br/>
wells in these neighborhoods, which has<br/>
proved eminently successful. In regard to<br/>
the external appearance of the oil regions<br/>
in Virginia. I quote from a correspondent<br/>
of the New York papers, "This is indeed<br/>
a remarkable region. Although of rough<br/>
exterior it presents inexhaustible fountains<br/>
of wealth within. Every where around<br/>
me are unmistakable evidence of the vast<br/>
wealth, which lies so long rotted beneath.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
these rugged hills, and sharply defined<br/>
valleys. Nature has indeed been bountiful<br/>
in this particular region. She has scattered<br/>
her treasures with a large and prodigal<br/>
hand. These wild lands which a few years<br/>
ago, were considered comparatively worth-<br/>
less, so much so indeed, that the more<br/>
acres a man possessed, the poorer he con-<br/>
sidered himself, are now at fabulous prices.<br/>
Wildly distorted strata, and impenetrable<br/>
forests, now command the prices of gold-<br/>
bearing quartz, and forests of rosewood."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will also be perceived that Petroleum<br/>
is no new thing, but has only been discov-<br/>
ered in larger quantities, and applied to<br/>
different purposes. Upon this point I also<br/>
quote from the correspondence of another<br/>
New York paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The name Petroleum means Rock Oil.<br/>
This indicates its place in the earth. True,<br/>
it flows from the earth, sometimes floats on<br/>
ponds or lakes, comes out in springs, is<br/>
found in some rocks, and is distilled from<br/>
bituminous coal. It used to be collected<br/>
on Seneca Lake, and was called Seneca oil.<br/>
The writer has some which was taken from<br/>
that Lake more than fifty years ago, and is<br/>
precisely like that from the oil regions of<br/>
Virginia, Pennsylvania, and other States.<br/>
Yet it is not a new thing—for it was<br/>
known and used on the Eastern Continent<br/>
before the Christian era. It has excited<br/>
new interest from its abundance and from<br/>
its new and extensive uses. Its exportation<br/>
from our country is prodigious, a real era<br/>
in the trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Petroleum is a real chemical compound,<br/>
formed of carbon and hydrogen, or a true<br/>
hydro-carbon. Several compounds of these<br/>
two elements exist together in it. Its con-<br/>
version by heat into illuminating gas is<br/>
well known. This is a gaseous hydro-car-<br/>
bon; Petroleum is a liquid hydro-carbon,<br/>
as is naptha also; and bitumen is a solid<br/>
hydro-carbon. Such vast quantities flow<br/>
from the oil wells that people cannot but<br/>
inquire, How is it produced? Though<br/>
chemists and geologists of high character<br/>
for knowledge, believe this oil results from<br/>
chemical action, upon either vegetable or<br/>
animal matter buried in the earth, or upon<br/>
both, they have not shown its production,<br/>
or what it the matter acted on, and how<br/>
the action is carried on. All agree that it<br/>
seems to be connected with coal fields,<br/>
where were imbedded immense quantities<br/>
of vegetable substances."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The annual products of the oil regions<br/>
have within the last four years become al-<br/>
most marvellous. The great iron, and<br/>
coal mines of Pennsylvania, produce annu-<br/>
ally about $51,000,000. The gold regions<br/>
of California, in her palmiest days, only<br/>
gave to commerce about $50,000,000, but<br/>
the oil regions of Pennsylvania and Vir-<br/>
ginia, although embracing but a small ex-<br/>
tent of territory, surpasses either of the<br/>
above by at least $5,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oil has also been discovered in Southern<br/>
Ohio, in New York, and in Canada. A<br/>
productive well has also been found within<br/>
a league of the city of Mexico, and produces<br/>
oil so pure, that all the refining it needs, is<br/>
to be strained through a cloth. The New<br/>
Emperor Maximilian therefore, whatever<br/>
else he may need, will not want for oil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to the true nature of the oil wells of<br/>
Burmah, we have not been correctly in-<br/>
formed. It is said however that they have<br/>
been yielding bountifully for some years,<br/>
but how long they would stand steam<br/>
pumping, as some of the wells in the<br/>
United States are pumped, it would be<br/>
difficult to tell. We presume however<br/>
that the oil of Burmah is the same as that<br/>
in the United States, and we see no reason<br/>
why it may not yet be found in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Nakprat Jr.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CITY OF DREAMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Could we move forward the wheels of<br/>
time a century, I fancy a journey to the<br/>
Lao country would be far different from<br/>
what it is now. The account of it then,<br/>
might run somewhat as follows. "Took<br/>
the morning train from Bangkok, and after<br/>
a delightful ride up the banks of the Menam<br/>
we dined at Nakawn-Sawan, and. stopped at<br/>
Rahang. Then taking a sleeping car in the<br/>
night train, we found ourselves in the morn-<br/>
ing after a pleasant night's rest at Chieng<br/>
Mai."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the improvements going on in the<br/>
other portions of the world and even in<br/>
Siam, we may not say that this is either<br/>
impossible or improbable. Should the dream<br/>
of the fancy ever prove a reality, it will be a<br/>
very agreeable one to those who will have<br/>
the journey to make. Such a one would,<br/>
I have no doubt, compare very favorably in<br/>
ease and comfort, as well as speed, if not in<br/>
romance, with the ones taken in the "Matri-<br/>
monial" when newly fitted up for the oc<br/>
casion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But in the absence of the carriage train<br/>
drawn by the "Iron horse" with lightning<br/>
speed, the Matrimonial was probably about<br/>
as good a substitute as we could have had.<br/>
Its bottom being very flat and its draught<br/>
consequently light, it can make its way<br/>
among the innumerable shallows of the river,<br/>
as it widens instead of contracts in some<br/>
portions of its upward course, where few<br/>
other boats of its capacity can navigate. Its<br/>
motion too is so steady that you are not<br/>
always fearful that some unavoidable change<br/>
of position will destroy the centre of gravity<br/>
and give serious apprehensions of an im-<br/>
promptu bath. The first tour that I made<br/>
in Siam, was in a run yuan whose motions<br/>
were as hidden as those of a Scotch terrier,<br/>
and harder to be calculated for beforehand<br/>
than were the freaks of the great Scottish<br/>
theologian's horse. But to my narrative.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a hurried preparation I started in<br/>
company with a missionary friend on the<br/>
20th of November, 1863. The current<br/>
against which we had to make headway at<br/>
that season of the year was exceedingly<br/>
strong, thus rendering our progress corres-<br/>
pondingly slow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the exception of a little variety,<br/>
made by passing successive]y the towns of<br/>
Angtawng, Prome In, Chainat, and Ma-<br/>
norom, and a beautiful view of the setting<br/>
sun from the summit of Mount Terrama-<br/>
moon, and some large birds which our fowl-<br/>
ing piece obtained, we had but little to<br/>
break up the monotony of the way as far<br/>
as Nakawn-Sawan. The high banks on<br/>
which it is situated led us to hope that we<br/>
would soon have more variety in the scenery<br/>
along the river. In this, however, we were<br/>
disappointed, as the banks are so low and<br/>
the country so flat about Kamp'eng P'et,<br/>
and thence towards Rahaang, as they are<br/>
about Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After taking the left fork at Nakawn-Sa<br/>
wan, the ground was comparatively new to<br/>
foreigners. Besides Sir Robert Schomburgh<br/>
and his party, we knew of only a few others<br/>
who had preceded us. It was here that the<br/>
novelty of our trip began. As yet our oars<br/>
had been sufficient to propel our boat. But<br/>
on entering the Rahaang fork it refused to<br/>
go forward when all the boatmen had laid<br/>
on a "heavy hand," For several minutes no<br/>
perceptible progress was made except a<br/>
little like the Irishman's, backwards. We<br/>
neared the right bank a little, in order to<br/>
prepare our poles, which we had takes the<br/>
precaution to procure. There are bamboos<br/>
about twenty feet in length, with an iron<br/>
fork on the end. The water was rushing<br/>
by with fearful rapidity. After a few mo-<br/>
ments rest, we started off on our new ex-<br/>
periment. But our men made awkward<br/>
work of it for awhile, and the boat refused<br/>
to heed the new power brought to bear on it.<br/>
Hoping to improve s little we made for the<br/>
opposite bank, but drifted considerably in<br/>
crossing. If any thing it was worse there.<br/>
We found we were drifting rapidly down<br/>
the stream, when we seized the bushes and<br/>
trees on the shore, to see what distance<br/>
we had made. In short we seemed to be<br/>
completely nonplused. Was there an in-<br/>
superable barrier between us and Chieng-<br/>
Mai! We looked blank at each other for<br/>
a few moments, and laughed at our new<br/>
misfortunes. But what had been done.<br/>
could be done again. So after we had<br/>
chowed, and rowed, and pulled and pushed<br/>
and poled, we despatched a man on shore<br/>
with a long rope to tow us ont of our diffi-<br/>
culty. Just then too we were informed for<br/>
our encouragement by one who professed to<br/>
know the road, that it would reach Rahaang<br/>
in a month, and as for Chieng-Mai, that<br/>
was in the distant future. But our last exper-<br/>
iment succeeded, and after about three hours<br/>
of hard work, we turned a point but little<br/>
more than a half mile from our starting<br/>
place, and were pleased to find but few<br/>
places where the current was so strong as<br/>
just at the fork.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have purposely dwelt longer on this<br/>
point than it might otherwise seem to<br/>
deserve, as a correct understanding of this<br/>
river and its freaks, were it possible, would<br/>
he one of the best preparations for this trip.<br/>
But it would be he difficult for one who<br/>
had newer traveled it, to understand its<br/>
capricious pranks, as it is for one who had,<br/>
to forget them.  We were often reminded<br/>
of the expressive description of it that—<br/>
who had been up before us, gave, "that it<br/>
was certainly a very peculiar river" Its bot-<br/>
tom is a bed of everchanging sand. This<br/>
sand keeps the water continually turbid, and<br/>
it is ever boiling up, as if from innumerable<br/>
whirlpools. It means continually seeking<br/>
but never finding a permanent resting place,<br/>
and the constant changes of its particles<br/>
changes the channel of the river. Following<br/>
what had recently been its bed, one side of<br/>
the boat runs against a sand bar, putting<br/>
your pole down on the other side you find<br/>
no bottom! Your only chance then, is to<br/>
drift off and make for the opposite side of<br/>
the river, but there you are at the mercy of<br/>
a merciless current, which leads you often<br/>
a quarter of a mile or more farther back.<br/>
This is an invariable process that must be<br/>
repeated at every bend. But still by dint<br/>
of perseverance we made good progress.<br/>
In two days and a half, we reached Muang<br/>
Ban Pot, and began to have intimations<br/>
that Kamp'aang Phet, could be made in a few<br/>
more. It was on a Saturday evening when<br/>
it began to appear, as the mountains which<br/>
had been before us, near which we thought<br/>
it was situated, disappeared. We spent<br/>
the Sabbath in the town, which has several<br/>
thousand inhabitants. We had a great<br/>
many visitors who came from curiosity, as<br/>
well as to receive books, of which we dis-<br/>
tributed a great number. Leaving there on<br/>
Monday morning we were led to hope that<br/>
Rahaang the first terminus of our voyage,<br/>
where we were to leave our boat, would be<br/>
seen in three days more. The river is there<br/>
divided up into many channels made by<br/>
little islands, amid which we had to snake<br/>
our way as best we could. Our men by this<br/>
time have become a little better accquainted<br/>
with the changes, and can calculate some-<br/>
what where the next bend will leave the<br/>
channel. With the exceptions of the islands<br/>
and a few little hills, one of which rising just<br/>
from the water, resembles some of our Phet-<br/>
chaburee mountains, we had but little change<br/>
of scenery all the way. The first portion<br/>
of the way from Nakawn Sawan, our course<br/>
was more North than West. The latter<br/>
portion was nearly N. West. Wednesday<br/>
night found us in sight of our long looked<br/>
for stopping place, though we did not reach<br/>
there till the afternoon of Thursday, being<br/>
the twenty seventh day, (Sunday's except-<br/>
ed) from Bangkok. Here you must leave<br/>
us for the present to make preparations for<br/>
our overland route thence to Chiang-Mai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Yours,
D.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A PLEA FOR THE PEOPLE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This seems to be a wonderful day in the<br/>
history of our adopted country—or perhaps<br/>
more properly a day of wonderful things.<br/>
The long sleep—the unbroken lethargy<br/>
under which Siam has so long been resting<br/>
seems quite at an end. Thought is waking<br/>
up—-the people are becoming reative and<br/>
are beginning to doubt and question con-<br/>
cerning some things which for centuries<br/>
have been more firmly established, if pos-<br/>
sible, than "the laws of the Medes and<br/>
Persians.” With the more intelligent part<br/>
of the people, there is an almost painful<br/>
thirsting for a change of some kind——<br/>
whether it is their habits of life, their cus-<br/>
toms of society or their Religion—they,<br/>
themselves appear undecided ; but smooth<br/>
as the surface may appear to the careless<br/>
observer, the more attentive cannot but<br/>
decide that the waters beneath are greatly<br/>
troubled and that this is a period in the<br/>
history of the country pregnant with great<br/>
results. What these results shall be is a<br/>
question which should be carefully con-<br/>
sidered by every educated man and parti-<br/>
cularly by every philanthropist in the<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I almost imagine that the King himself<br/>
must sit rather uneasily on his throne, at<br/>
times, when he stops to consider the<br/>
changes that are going on daily around<br/>
him. "His great ship of state" glided<br/>
smoothly and steadily along while the<br/>
custom of former ages was its only chart—<br/>
the Buddhist Religion, its guiding star and<br/>
His Majesty's sovereign will its compass.<br/>
But a new sea has opened up before him,<br/>
and shoals and reefs and breakers are<br/>
there, which were entirely unknown to that<br/>
old chart—the present surroundings are<br/>
vastly different from what they were a half<br/>
a century ago, and His Majesty must feel,<br/>
that to sail safely and happily, his chart<br/>
must be "revised and improved"—his<br/>
polar star must be carefully examined to<br/>
be sure that it is the true one, and his<br/>
compass must be brushed and polished,<br/>
and its magnetic needle guarded with<br/>
daily and hourly care, lest possibly its<br/>
polarity may be affected by outside<br/>
influences, and the great good of the ship<br/>
be sacrificed to other less important ends.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A commerce has been opened up between<br/>
this and the other nations of the earth, and<br/>
now the reigning monarch of Siam, must<br/>
not only be a "father to his own people,"<br/>
but he must be a step Father to all the<br/>
world beside ; and perhaps no monarch on<br/>
the face of the earth, needs more wisdom<br/>
to guide, and more strength of character<br/>
to execute, that which his wisdom may see<br/>
to be best in all cases, than the present<br/>
King of Siam. With a limited knowledge<br/>
of Foreign Languages and customs, he is<br/>
expected to "become all things to all<br/>
men"—he is expected to guard against<br/>
the smallest offence in his intercourse<br/>
with men, as well as to guard against the<br/>
great breaches of national etiquette, which<br/>
other nations—he is expected to give heed<br/>
to all the fulsome flattery of the selfish<br/>
sycophant, as well as, to the wise and<br/>
honest hints of true friends for the good<br/>
of the country. It may safely be presumed<br/>
that the future greatness of Siam, will be<br/>
much affected by a few years just now, but<br/>
she is taking her position, and becoming<br/>
known among the nations of the earth;<br/>
and what that position is to be, is future.<br/>
His Majesty's friends and advisers at pres-<br/>
ent, can hardly be small: aids in deciding.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then, just at this crisis, where are the<br/>
real friends of the country? Where are His<br/>
Majesty's "friends tried and true" who are<br/>
willing to take up the people's cause, and<br/>
lay out their strength for the people's wel-<br/>
fare and help them, at once, to rise in<br/>
civilization and become known as an in-<br/>
dustrious and energetic people?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Post-offices, Telegraphs, Rail-roads and<br/>
Light houses are all good things, and their<br/>
introduction into the country will be hailed<br/>
with pleasure by every one interested in<br/>
the country's prosperity; they will add<br/>
much to the pleasure, ease and convenience<br/>
of the "Foreign Residents" in Siam, but<br/>
will any one of them, or will they all put<br/>
together, be worth one single farthing, as<br/>
far as either the mental or moral elevation<br/>
of the people is concerned! No! the people<br/>
need a different kind of improvements.—<br/>
They need a good permanent “Savings<br/>
Bank” where every man who chooses<br/>
may deposit his fuang, salung or tical per<br/>
week, and feel assured that it is safe there<br/>
for him against a time of want.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They need an Agricultural society with<br/>
the stimulant of Fairs, premiums &c. &c.<br/>
They need a Temperance society, with its<br/>
meetings, speeches, banners &c. &c. all of<br/>
which would be wholesome recreations and<br/>
pastimes; and they need good schools,<br/>
good school-books and a good newspaper<br/>
in their own Language.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are those who will say that this<br/>
is all visionary and that the writer is an<br/>
enthusiast and dreamer—that the time for<br/>
these things has not yet come in Siam.<br/>
Well, Be it so. We have two newspapers<br/>
now, and even dreamers may tell their<br/>
dreams, and the enthusiast his wild con-<br/>
jectures. A year ago, the sceptical said<br/>
that the time had not yet come for news-<br/>
papers in Siam, but see, how they were<br/>
mistaken! Every thing must have a be-<br/>
ginning, and sometimes a very small and<br/>
discouraging beginning it has; but is that a<br/>
good reason why earnest, sensible men<br/>
should be still, and let Siam take her posi-<br/>
tion and become known among the nations<br/>
of the earth, in its present degraded condi-<br/>
tion! Today, is always the best time to<br/>
make a good work and here is no La-<br/>
fayette to come to the help of suffering<br/>
Siam! The King shows a commendable<br/>
willingness to adopt whatever he believes<br/>
to be for the good of his people, then who<br/>
will take up the subject of Savings' Bank,<br/>
and lay it in all its importance, before the<br/>
King and Officials of Government! Some<br/>
one should do this, who understands the<br/>
internal machinery of such an Institution,<br/>
and who could not only show its importance<br/>
and advantages, but could also explain the<br/>
necessary charter, Laws, regulations, &c.;<br/>
and this not in the English Langrage,<br/>
which is but imperfectly understood, but<br/>
in their own.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why is it that there is so great a pro-<br/>
portion of this people mere idlers, gamblers<br/>
and drunkards! Simply and solely be-<br/>
cause they have no inducement to work.<br/>
The great wonder is that so many work,<br/>
rather than that there are so many idlers.<br/>
In a country like this, it is an easy thing<br/>
to get enough to eat, and why should a<br/>
man wish to make any thing more!—If he<br/>
has a master—his master will be sure to<br/>
manage in some way, to get any extra<br/>
change that he may make—if he has no<br/>
master, his dearest and best friend will<br/>
borrow it for just a few days, when both<br/>
parties ought to know that it will never be<br/>
paid;—if he tries to put it away in his<br/>
own possession, there is nothing much<br/>
more certain than that it will be stolen, so<br/>
the quickest way to save all farther trouble<br/>
is to enjoy it in opium smoking, drinking,<br/>
gambling or cock-fighting! But let a good<br/>
permanent Saving’s Bank, for the people,<br/>
be established by the authority of the King<br/>
and nobles, and let them encourage the<br/>
people, to put their little savings away in<br/>
it, and let the people feel assnred that it is<br/>
not only their safe, but on a yearly increase<br/>
and that no one but themselves, or those<br/>
with authority from themselves, can draw<br/>
it, and could not a single year tell of great<br/>
results among the people?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has "The Bangkok Recorder" not a<br/>
"right hand man" who will take this mat-<br/>
ter into consideration and see what can be<br/>
done "for the people." And when he suc-<br/>
ceeds in turning the channel of this stream<br/>
—that is in taking these savings out of the<br/>
drinking and gambling shops, and putting<br/>
them into a Bank, and thus encouraging<br/>
industry, sobriety and economy, his name<br/>
will deserve a far higher place in the his-<br/>
tory of Siam, than the name of Napoleon<br/>
in that of France, or of Washington in that<br/>
of America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Hope.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A TRANSLATION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The names of Temples, villages and cities,<br/>
in the Kingdom of Siam, are derived from<br/>
three sources viz- Sanskrit, Siamese and<br/>
Cambodian. The names which the people<br/>
generally use, are spoken according to the<br/>
idiom of the Siamese language, and are short<br/>
and easily spoken; but the names used in the<br/>
Court language, that is in Government do-<br/>
cuments, which receive the Government<br/>
sea, are generally of Sanskrit derivation,<br/>
and apt to be be long: even though the San-<br/>
skrit names are in full length, the people<br/>
are prone to speak them incorrectly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some Cities and Temples have two and<br/>
often three names, being the ancient and<br/>
modern names, as they are used in the<br/>
Court language, or that of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The present city of Bangkok, was form-<br/>
erly a chief Province of Siam, called Ton-<br/>
buree, a Sanscrit name. When written<br/>
according to the teacher of Sanskrit, in the<br/>
Roman character, Dhanapuri, but if writ-<br/>
ten according to the Siamese sound, it could<br/>
not be well read. This is the name used in<br/>
all the Royal documents, but in common<br/>
parlance it is called Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sometimes the Sanskrit name for Bang-<br/>
kok is abridged, and made to compete with<br/>
the name of the Province of Non, by which<br/>
it is bounded on the North.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Province of Non, if it be called ac-<br/>
cording to Court language, would be Nant'a-<br/>
buree written according to Sanskrit, and it<br/>
Romanized, according to the teacher of<br/>
Romanizing, it would be Nondapuri; but if<br/>
written in full it would be Nont'buri Sri<br/>
Maha S.mudd: and the Sanskrit name of<br/>
Bangkok written in full would be Dhana-<br/>
puri Sri Maha Samudd, but the common<br/>
people universally call the former province<br/>
Talat K'wan, and the latter Bangkok; while<br/>
the class a little more elevated call the<br/>
former Non, and the latter T'on.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is only in Court language, and in Royal<br/>
documents, that the names are written in<br/>
full, which could not be well used in com-<br/>
mon parlance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the present city of Bangkok, in an-<br/>
cient times from the site of the palace of<br/>
the second King, down to the site of the<br/>
palace of H. R. H. Krom Hluang Wongsa,<br/>
there was no river,—it was a level field. The<br/>
river turned to the right, opposite the pe-<br/>
lace of the second King, and flowed in the<br/>
present channel of the Bangkok-Noi, sweep-<br/>
ing round to the westward towards the<br/>
temple now called Keelek; thence turning<br/>
Southerly at Taling-Ch'an and coming out<br/>
into what is now called Klwang Bangkok-<br/>
Yai, which empties into the river at the up-<br/>
per Fort, just below the residence of H.R.<br/>
H. Krom Hluang Wongsa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At that time it was a day's journey, by<br/>
the river for oared boats, to row from the<br/>
palace of H. R. H. Krom Hlaung Wongsa,<br/>
to that of the second King, but the actual<br/>
distance between the two places was so<br/>
short, that the natives after spending nearly<br/>
all the day in rowing, have often walked<br/>
from the one to the other, for their rice pots<br/>
which they had left behind, and returned<br/>
with them in time to cook supper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Near the upper fort, there was also the<br/>
mouth of a creek, which commenced at, or<br/>
near the old palace of the third King, (on<br/>
the west side of the present river, nearly<br/>
opposite to the palace of the second King)<br/>
which took a long sweep to the westward<br/>
into the fields, then turned in a southerly<br/>
direction. The lower mouth of this canal<br/>
was called Bangkok-Yai, the upper Bang-<br/>
kok-Noi, the space between was called<br/>
Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The word Bang means, canal, or creek.<br/>
The upper end of the creek and the<br/>
lower are both called Bangkok (that is,<br/>
the generic name is in both cases alike ).<br/>
Th name union of the generic and specific<br/>
name may be seen the common way of<br/>
speaking of the two ends of other canals ;<br/>
for example—the Paklet canal and the<br/>
Bang-k'rai canal. The former is called<br/>
Paklet the upper, and Paklet the lower—<br/>
The latter where it opens into the River<br/>
(above Bangkok) is called Bang-k'rul the<br/>
outer, and the mouth opening into Bang-<br/>
kok-noi river, is called Bang-k'rui the<br/>
inner. So it is in regard to Paklet canal<br/>
( which crosses a big-bend of the river<br/>
north of Bangkok) the upper end being<br/>
called Pakkret the upper, and the lower<br/>
Pakkret the lower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was in the reign of Maha-Chakra-P'atdi<br/>
(the 16th Siamese king) that the king was<br/>
pleased to have a large canal excavated,<br/>
connecting the two places called Bangkok-<br/>
yai and Bangkok-Noi, causing the main<br/>
body of the river to flow in this new<br/>
channel. He caused also small fortifica-<br/>
tions to be made at each of the two places.<br/>
Just as in the reign of Prabat Somdetch<br/>
P'ra Poot'a-lot-la Nop'a-lie when the<br/>
king made the canal which crosses the<br/>
neck of the big bend at the city Nak'awn<br/>
K'uan-k'an Now Nak'awn is Sanskrit,<br/>
and K'uan-K'an is Siamese. The latter<br/>
only may be written to express it. This<br/>
place is simply Paklet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having made fortification, at the lower<br/>
extremity of the new canal at Bangkok,<br/>
king Maha-Chakra-P'atdi gave it the name<br/>
of T'onburee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now concerning the digging of that<br/>
canal, though it was done more than 800<br/>
years ago, there is good reason to believe<br/>
that it is a fact. In not the present chan-<br/>
nel of the river (from the palace of the<br/>
second king to that of H. R. H. Krom<br/>
Hluang) narrower, than the river imme-<br/>
diately above and below? This part is only<br/>
520 feet wide, not 650 feet. When this new<br/>
channel was finished, the waters of the<br/>
river flowed through it, and abandoned<br/>
its old course, around the big -bend which<br/>
hence gradually filled up, (by the earthy<br/>
sediment of its sluggish waters ) in some<br/>
parts full one half, in others less. When<br/>
we follow the old channel and examine it,<br/>
we find that one of the banks of it is high,<br/>
the other low, having the form of a curve<br/>
channel throughout. When this old chan-<br/>
nel had thus been changed, the two ex-<br/>
tremities of it still continued to be called<br/>
Bangkok-Noi, and Bangkok-Yai, that is<br/>
the upper end of it was called Bangkok<br/>
Noi, and the lower end Bangkok-Yai, ac-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
cording to the original names.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now let us examine the Bangkok-Yai<br/>
extremity, on the upper side of it by the<br/>
fort at Dr. Bradley's, on the lower side ot<br/>
Tonburee, the bank is elevated because it<br/>
was the old bank of the river; but on the<br/>
lower side of it, at Kaddee Cheen, it is low,<br/>
because it is land made by the natural ac-<br/>
tion of the old river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This difference in the two banke, con-<br/>
tinues to be observable until got come be-<br/>
yond temple Sang-kra-chai, where the<br/>
course ot the old channel is changed.<br/>
From temple Bang-ye-rua, the low bank is<br/>
on the north side, opposite the temple.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again examine the location of the old<br/>
temple, that were erected on what used<br/>
to be, the high bank of the old channel,<br/>
from the mouth of Bangkok-Yai to temple<br/>
Sang-kra-chai. On the low back at Kadee<br/>
Cheen, there wae to temple, because it<br/>
was then occupied by the river. The first<br/>
temple you come to on that side of the old<br/>
abannel is called Dawk-Mei, the next is<br/>
called Yai, and than temple Noi, and temple<br/>
Sang-kra-chai. These temples were anciently<br/>
situated on the high bank of the river-chan-<br/>
nel, but are now temples in the fields. When<br/>
you come to temple Bang-ye-rua, you find<br/>
an old temple on the bank of the present<br/>
channel, which is at was in ancient time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But on the same bank, further inward<br/>
are the temples Dea-duat and Chow-Moon,<br/>
which in ancient days must have been on<br/>
the banks ot the river, but are now inland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The canal, at the mouth of which there is<br/>
a Custom house, is the ancient and true<br/>
Bang Hluang canal. In ancient times the<br/>
Bangkok-Yai was as large as the present<br/>
Bangkok-noi creek. But as it was nigh the<br/>
city Tonburee, the people built their houses<br/>
so made dikes encroaching upon it,<br/>
that it gradually narrowed to its present<br/>
dimensions. And at length the people, see-<br/>
ing it to be a smaller body of water than<br/>
Bangkok-noi creek, came to think that it<br/>
was not therefore proper to call it Bang-<br/>
kok-Yai (the large Bangkok) and as it had<br/>
become of equal size with Bang Hluang<br/>
creek (and continuone with it) they saw fit<br/>
to call it all by the name Bang Hluang.<br/>
But a multitude of persone acquainted with<br/>
the former state of the matter, say that the<br/>
name Bang Hluang, was given to that part<br/>
of it which anciently was called Bangkok-<br/>
Yai became Phya-Taksin erected his palace<br/>
on the present site of Prince Krom Hluang<br/>
Wongsa, which was called Wang Hluang<br/>
(the royal palace). Phya-Taksin, driving<br/>
off the original settlers on the banks of the<br/>
Bangkok-Yai near his palace, gave the lots to<br/>
his princes and oftioers of government whom<br/>
he wisjed to have near him. And persons<br/>
passing that way, were required to take<br/>
particular heed to themselves on account of<br/>
its being a thoroughfare near the king's<br/>
palace. For these reasons the came to be<br/>
called Klawng Hluang or Bang-Hluang ;<br/>
This may be illustrated by the fact that<br/>
in the reign of Phya Taksin all the Tachus<br/>
Chinese, were called Cheen Hluang ( royal<br/>
Chinese) because they were Chinese of the<br/>
same Province as Phya Taksin himself.<br/>
But in all government documenes of that<br/>
period, the creek now improperly called<br/>
Bang-Hlaung was calls Bangkok-Yai. There<br/>
can be found no instance of its having baen<br/>
otherwise denominated. The only Klawng<br/>
Bang Hluang originally mentioned is that<br/>
creek at the Temple Paknam, ( near the<br/>
Custom House at the mouth of the creek<br/>
leading to Mahachei.) All the creek be-<br/>
tween that and the present river was called<br/>
Bangkok Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_5_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A visit to the Pra pra-t'omr-chedee
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from page 25.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We started so early from the town of<br/>
Nakawn-chei-ee, that we had scarcely a<br/>
glimpse of the place. It is but a small<br/>
village, awd would have but little impor-<br/>
tance; were it not the seat of government<br/>
for one of the most important Provinces<br/>
in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Pră prà-t’ômă-chêdée is very near-<br/>
ly due west from Nakawn-cheisée, a dis-<br/>
tance of 300 sens, by Siamese measurement<br/>
which is nearly equal to seven and a half<br/>
English miles. It is reached by a canal of<br/>
the same size and straightness, as the one<br/>
described in the preceding article, and the<br/>
country through which it passes, very much<br/>
like that we described there, being a per-<br/>
fect level prairie, with but here and there a<br/>
small forest tree. Those parts near the<br/>
canal were generally occupied for the<br/>
growth of rice, some of which looked as if<br/>
it would turn out a good yeild, on the<br/>
slopes of the canal-banks (now as the<br/>
water is low) there are very pleasant look-<br/>
ing patches of maize, onions, turnips, rad-<br/>
ishes, lettince, mustard &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This canal was excavated about five<br/>
years ago, doubtless for the primary object<br/>
of making a convenient way of access to a<br/>
place, which is designed to become a very<br/>
popular shrine for the worship of Buddh,<br/>
and thus to transmit the name of His pres-<br/>
ent Majesty the Supreme King, to future gen-<br/>
erations as a sovereign of great wealth, and<br/>
of sincere devotion to Buddhism, such as<br/>
he taught, when a priest at the head of a<br/>
reformed school, and such as he has up-<br/>
held with the right hand of his kingly<br/>
power, in faithfulness to the oath he took<br/>
when he acceded to the Throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The original name of the Pagoda (for<br/>
such it is) was Pra-pra t'om Chotee, literally<br/>
a Pagoda of a god that slept. But for rea-<br/>
sons best known to such as have authority<br/>
to change names, a slight change has been<br/>
made in the writing of that original name,<br/>
so that it can now be literally rendered,<br/>
a Pagoda of the god of the beginning,<br/>
or the most ancient Pagoda. The change<br/>
is only in the letter O in the word pra-<br/>
t'am, which formerly had no rising inflec-<br/>
tion, but now has, and when Romanized<br/>
is written Prat'om. According to the<br/>
original name it is commonly understood<br/>
that Gaudoma or Buddha, when journey-<br/>
ing in Siam on "a certain time" slept<br/>
at that place. which idea harmonizes well<br/>
with other traditions concerning him ; — as<br/>
for example :— that he found shelter at one<br/>
time under a great shelving rock, some 10<br/>
or 15 miles east of Prabat, during a tremend-<br/>
ous storm, and that consequently from that<br/>
time to this, the ceiling and siding made by<br/>
that rock, becomes brilliant in the view of<br/>
every devoted follower of Buddha, when<br/>
looking at it, and therefore is called Pra-<br/>
Chei; — that he put one of his feet on a<br/>
smaller mount at P'rabat, and left in it his<br/>
foot print, and hence the name ; and that<br/>
he reclined on a rock, at the top of a small<br/>
mount 20 or 30 miles east of Pra-pra-<br/>
toma Chedee, and hence the place is cal-<br/>
led P'ra-t'aan,—the lounge of god.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Pagoda on Pra-pra't'oma' Chedee,<br/>
is situated in the midst of a vast wilderness<br/>
of jungle grass, bushes, and scraggy bam-<br/>
boos, with scarcely a hill in all the field<br/>
of vision, or a large tree, and nothing to<br/>
bound the vision but the horizon. It is said<br/>
to be two and a half sens, or 400 feet high,<br/>
having been designed by its founder Phya<br/>
Kong, to be the highest point at which<br/>
doves love to make their nests. The upper<br/>
half of it, which has not been inclosed by<br/>
the new brick work now going up, is much<br/>
like the tops of some Pagoda's in Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear that the original size of<br/>
its base was not a quarter of what it is now,<br/>
There was no possibility of measuring it,<br/>
as it was entirely hidden by the solid brick<br/>
work which has been joined to it, and which<br/>
is to be carried upward until the old is en-<br/>
tirely lost in the new work. The artificial<br/>
mound on which it stands, is a regular circle<br/>
not far from 4000 feet in circumference,<br/>
and about 15 feet high ; and the diameter<br/>
of the new work measured on that base is<br/>
about 600 feet. It has been carried up not<br/>
far from 300 feet already, gradually becom-<br/>
ing smaller as it ascends by symetrical and<br/>
tasty variations of form—now swelling out<br/>
gracefully and now sinking in, so as to<br/>
form regular zones around it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We ascended this new work on the south<br/>
side by a flight of zigzag steps, made for the<br/>
workmen. It is more properly, a plank road<br/>
six feet wide, with strips of scantling spi-<br/>
ked to the plank crosswise for steps. We<br/>
came down on the north side by a similar<br/>
path, made it would seam, for the special<br/>
accommodation of the king and royal retinue<br/>
in their annual and semiannual visitations.<br/>
This flight of steps has a firm bamboo rail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing attached to it, which, is no doubt at the<br/>
times of such visitations, wound up nearly<br/>
with a white bandage the whole of his length<br/>
for the hand of the King to grasp as he<br/>
ascends and descends. The top of the new<br/>
work is upward of 300 feet in circumfer-<br/>
ence. Radiating from the old spire to the<br/>
chief points of the compass, there are heavy<br/>
four inch planks laid flat-wise, upon which<br/>
the work is to be built up; and we were<br/>
informed that several such strains of timber<br/>
had been placed in the brick work below<br/>
as there would be above ; — the object be-<br/>
ing to prevent the work from splitting.<br/>
Such an accident occurred four or five years<br/>
since when the structure had arisen to<br/>
nearly its present height. While many<br/>
men were at work on the top of it, it sud-<br/>
denly parted from the old spire on all hands<br/>
and came down with a great crash; and<br/>
marvellous to say, so great was the merit<br/>
of working upon it, that it is reported that<br/>
only one of the men was killed by the<br/>
accident. The confused mound made by<br/>
this avalanche was at length levelled down,<br/>
and now forms the mound above described.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The view from the top of this new struc-<br/>
ture commands a prairie district of great<br/>
extent, which is now an arid wilderness<br/>
of the common jungle productions of all the<br/>
vast plains of Siam. Here and there<br/>
could be seen small plots of cultivated land<br/>
and round about them a few grass thatched<br/>
huts indicating poverty. We could see<br/>
nothing that looked like a canal or water<br/>
privilege of any kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the time we took our observations<br/>
from that point, midway between the earth<br/>
and the top of P'ra pra-t'ôm Chedée, the<br/>
air was rather smoky and the sky cloudy,<br/>
which circumscribed our view much from<br/>
what it would have been in a clear time.<br/>
Judging from observations made near Prả<br/>
t'áan, some years since, we think that it<br/>
should be in sight by means of a glass from<br/>
this place. Lying, as it probably does, a little<br/>
North of West. It is on a little mount in<br/>
a slightly elevated district, abounding with<br/>
the timber, called Mai teng rang, which<br/>
is in great repute for the pillars of houses,<br/>
and from which the rosin of this country is<br/>
obtained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the base of this pagoda are being<br/>
erected a circle of very tasty and expensive<br/>
buildings with splendid porches, guarded by<br/>
huge figures of Nak, a kind of demi-god. At<br/>
the northern entrance is a small artificial<br/>
mountain with a great variety of caverns,<br/>
and subterranean recesses, on the exterior<br/>
of which are sundry pools of water, little<br/>
pagodas, and miniature temples. On the<br/>
west side is a reclining god in the process of<br/>
formation under the plastic hands of two<br/>
masons, which may be 50 feet in length<br/>
and otherwise duly proportioned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the immediate vicinity of the Pagoda<br/>
are fifteen or twenty small brick houses,<br/>
ill after the same model, of recent make,<br/>
designed for the accommodation of Buddhist<br/>
priests. On either side of the canal, which<br/>
comes to its terminus a few feet from the<br/>
Pagoda, are twenty or more substantial<br/>
brick sazats some fifty rods apart, built but<br/>
recently for the shelter of pilgrims coming<br/>
to worship Buddah at this his sacred lodging<br/>
place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty, the Supreme King, is having<br/>
a little palace erected a few rods from the<br/>
Pagoda on the East side, for his own con-<br/>
venience and pleasure when he comes hith-<br/>
er to consecrate all these new works to the<br/>
Buddhist religion, and to lead the devotions<br/>
of his great family at this rising shrine.<br/>
We observed, that among other numerous<br/>
buildings, connected with the palace, was<br/>
the usual accompaniment every where seen<br/>
in the royal residences in city or in country<br/>
—a large place for theatrical performances;<br/>
for such plays are quite in harmony with<br/>
the modern worship of Buddah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An incalculable amount of treasure has<br/>
been already expended upon this Pagoda,<br/>
and all the other works connected with it;<br/>
and many hundreds of thousands of Ticals<br/>
will be required to complete all that has<br/>
been laid out to be done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is in sight from the top of the new<br/>
Pagoda, several miles to the S. E., another<br/>
ancient pagoda called Pra pra t'one which<br/>
from the present appearance of things, will<br/>
not be allowed long to remain without some<br/>
extraordinary honors being conferred upon<br/>
it by His Majesty the King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would that the king could see how much<br/>
better for his own name, and for his own<br/>
subjects, and for the future generations of<br/>
his own people, it would be to employ this<br/>
great wealth, for the complete exploration<br/>
and survey of all his dominions, that their<br/>
vast hidden treasures might be brought to<br/>
light, their rivers all accurately mapped,<br/>
their towns, cities, and provinces, all clearly<br/>
bounded, and railways and electric tele-<br/>
graphs, bringing them all into close prox-<br/>
imity with the great metropolis, and the<br/>
whole into lightning communication with<br/>
all the western kingdoms and nations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We remained at Pra pra-t'om chedee<br/>
only about two hours, as we found it very<br/>
uncomfortably hot and confined, for our<br/>
children in the boat, at low water in a deep<br/>
ditch of a canal, with the merest sham of<br/>
a market from which to replenish our table,<br/>
and no house on shore offering the least<br/>
comfort to such visitors in such a " dry and<br/>
thirsty land." Having talked a little to the<br/>
people, who came to look in upon us from<br/>
the top of a high flight of steps leading to<br/>
our boat, and given them a few tracts, and<br/>
portions of the Eternal Word, we took our<br/>
leave of them to return to the Tacheen river,<br/>
which we reached about sunset. We had<br/>
intended to proceed onw in to the Sugar<br/>
district that night, but were obliged to<br/>
give up the hopes of it, and put up for the<br/>
night after having pushed against a strong<br/>
upward tide till 9 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now Mr. Editor, as it seems probable<br/>
that the strong tide of my thoughts the next<br/>
day would be quite to much for the present<br/>
number, I will postpone the many things<br/>
of great interest I observed there, for a<br/>
place in some future issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_6_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Public Auction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are instructed by Cap-<br/>
tain, C. Behmer, to sell at<br/>
Public Auction on Saturday<br/>
next March 4th at 12 o'clock<br/>
(noon) for the benfit of whom<br/>
it may concern, The British<br/>
Barque Euphrates of 414<br/>
tons Register, built at Sunder-<br/>
land in the year 1854. Re-<br/>
classed at Lloyds in June<br/>
1863, for three additional<br/>
years as A. 1, as she now lies<br/>
at anchor opposite Wat Sam-<br/>
peng, with all her tackle, ap-<br/>
parel &c. &c. A list of her<br/>
Inventory can be seen at the<br/>
office of the undersigned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sale to take place on board.<br/>
Terms, cash on the fall of the<br/>
hammer, all transfer Expenses<br/>
to be borne by the purchaser.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Feb. 27th 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
VIRGIN &  Co.
AUCTIONEERS.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_6_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
APPOINTMENT OF CONSUL
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P. Lessler Esq. has received has appoint<br/>
ment as Prussian Consul to Siam. The<br/>
Prussian treaty includes the following<br/>
States,—vis:—Prussia,—Bavaria.—Saxo-<br/>
ny,—-Hanover,—Wurtemberg,—Baden,—<br/>
Electoral Hesse,—-Grandducal Hesse,—-<br/>
Saxe Weimar Eisenach—-Saxe Meiningen,.<br/>
—Saxe Altenburg—Saxe Coburg Gotha,— <br/>
—Schwarzburg, Rudalstadt,—-Schwarzburg<br/>
Sondershausen.-—The Elder Branch of<br/>
Reuss,—-The Younger Branch of Reuss,—-<br/>
Brunswick,—-Oldemburg,-—Nassan,—-Free<br/>
Town of Frankfort—-Grand Duchies of<br/>
Mecklenburg Swerin—-and the Grand Du-<br/>
chies of Meckleoburg Strelitz.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/centre >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE interest and responsibility of Mr<br/>
David King Mason, in our firm having<br/>
ceased, the business will continue to be<br/>
carried on by Mr. Robert Simpson Scott,<br/>
under the firm of Scott & Co., from 1st<br/>
proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. K. MASON & CO.
Bangkok, 31st Dec., 1864. (6t).
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TOWING & LIGHTERING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
STEAMERS.
"JACK WATERS"
"FAIRY" &
"S.S. WYCKOFF."
Barges.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>ENTERPRISE</td>
 <td>COQUILLE.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CONCHA.</td>
 <td>INDUSTRY</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>D’ALMEIDA.</td>
 <td></td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also Barges No. 1, & No. 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
O. G. ALLEN,
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
H. H. Hansen—Clerk.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Police Cases,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM 14th TO 28th FEBRUARY 1865.
REPORTED BY S. J. B. AMES
COMMISSIONER OF POLICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td colspan="3">Cases of Larceny.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Fighting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>3</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Carrying dangerous weapons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Fugitive slave,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Contraband Opium.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Debt,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>2</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Burglary.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>1</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do{{< news/indent1 >}}</td>
 <td>Throwing stones with intent</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td colspan="4">to do bodily harm.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Yomārat, the<br/>
New Lord Mayor has recently succeeded in<br/>
arresting a gang of thieves and burglars,<br/>
and recovered a considerable amount of<br/>
stolen property. The gang appears to<br/>
have been regularly organized, and of long<br/>
standing. The vigilance of His Excellency<br/>
seems to be producing a salutary fear among<br/>
all that class of individuals.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CONSULAR CASE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Odman Vs. Bush—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are indebted to H. B. M. Consul for<br/>
the following:—-viz—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No allowance was made to Mr. Odman,<br/>
for his management of the concern. but his<br/>
charge on account of a clerk, was allowed<br/>
at a fixed rate per month, for a period of<br/>
thirty months. and including the time<br/>
requisite for the accounts to be made up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oliver Lewis seaman, aged 56, a native<br/>
of Berwick-on-Tweed, was found dead, on<br/>
Sunday 25th inst., in a bamboo hut, in the<br/>
vicinity of the Harbor Masters office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Deceased had been in the employ of the<br/>
Harbor Master, and after receiving his<br/>
wages on Saturday, went to the Sarapeng,<br/>
and when last seen alive was under the<br/>
influence of Liquor—His case adds but<br/>
another victim to the millions which have<br/>
been taken by the Giant Intemperance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have concluded to put the Siamese<br/>
department of our paper on a separate<br/>
sheet. It is useless to a very great majority<br/>
of our English readers. Any who may<br/>
desire the Siamese, will please inform us<br/>
and we will be happy to supply it to them.<br/>
It will henceforth be four pages instead<br/>
of one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our faithful friend and fellow public ser-<br/>
vant the Siamese Str. Chow Phya, Capt.<br/>
Orton, arrived from Singapore via Saigon on<br/>
the 26th inst., bringing as passengers from<br/>
Singapore, M. Mallerbe and Lady, and Mr. J.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
G. Caswell, and from Saigon, Monseur<br/>
A. Henry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She left Singapore the 14th at 6 o'clock<br/>
P. M. and reached Cape St. James at 6 ½<br/>
P. M. of the 18th. Being detained for the<br/>
night for the want of a proper conductor up<br/>
the river, she did not arrive at Saigon till<br/>
the 19th. Leaving Saigon on the 22nd, Cape<br/>
St. James at 8 P. M. she arrived at the Bar<br/>
on the 25th at 6 P. M. Laid at the Fishing<br/>
stakes over night, and arrived in Bangkok<br/>
9 ½ A.M. on Sunday.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FROM THE HOME NEWS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from America, which is up to<br/>
the evening of the 28th of Dec, is of great<br/>
importance. On the 20th Sherman cap-<br/>
tured Fort Lee and some of the outworks<br/>
of Savannah. He then demanded the surren-<br/>
der of Savannah stating that if refused, he<br/>
would take no prisoners. Hardee refused<br/>
to surrender. During the night of the 20th,<br/>
Hardee escaped with the main body of his<br/>
army by crossing the Savannah River, at<br/>
Union Causeway leading to Charleston, af-<br/>
ter destroying the ironclads and navy yards.<br/>
Sherman occupied the city on the 21st,<br/>
capturing 150 guns, 13(1 cars, 8 small<br/>
steamers, 30,000 bales of cotton, 800 pris-<br/>
oners, and a large quantity of ammunition.<br/>
Twenty thousand inhabitants remained in<br/>
the city. The value of the captured cotton<br/>
is estimated at £ 8,000,000 ; it is believed<br/>
to belong to foreigners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Beauregard announced from<br/>
Charleston, under date of the 25th, that<br/>
Sherman had sent a column southward from<br/>
Savannah, probably to destroy the Savannah,<br/>
Albany, and Gulf Railway, but that Har-<br/>
dee had made dispositions to check the<br/>
movement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nashville advices to the 23rd of December<br/>
state that Hood's army had reached Pulaski,<br/>
75 miles south of Nashville, on the 22nd,<br/>
closely followed by the Federal cavalry.<br/>
Forrest, with his entire command, joined<br/>
Hood's on the 21st at Columbia. Hood is<br/>
reported to have a pontoon a bridge over the<br/>
Tennessee River near Florence, above the<br/>
reach of the Federal gunboats. Thomas's<br/>
headquarters are near Columbia, and his<br/>
army is south of the Duck River. Hood<br/>
said to have lost at least 17,000 men, and<br/>
24 guns, since he retreated. His retreat is re-<br/>
ported to have been very precipitate and<br/>
disorderly, the country being filled with<br/>
deserters stragglers from his army.<br/>
On the 25rd, it was reported that Hood's<br/>
army had retreated still further. He was<br/>
moving to strike the Tennessee River at<br/>
Bainbridge, near Florence. On that day a<br/>
portion of Thomas's force was repulsed in<br/>
an attack upon Hood's rearguard with<br/>
considerable loss in men and two cannon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nashville despatches assert that the high <br/>
state of the river would impede Hood's<br/>
crossing the Tennessee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Full particulars of Sherman's great march<br/>
have now appeared in the New York papers,<br/>
and the following is given as a summary of<br/>
its results: —" His army moved across the<br/>
State about 300 miles, in 27 days, living on<br/>
the way on the fat of the land, devastating<br/>
43 counties, stripping the country of every-<br/>
thing that could be of service to the rebel<br/>
armies, destroying 200 miles of railroad,<br/>
burning millions of dollars' worth of cotton,<br/>
capturing 4000 prisoners, 10,000 negroes,<br/>
15,000 horses, and 30 pieces of artillery;<br/>
and immediately on arriving on the coast<br/>
wrested Fort M'Alister from the enemy,<br/>
and laid seige to the city of Savannah. In<br/>
the performance of all this marvellous work<br/>
General Sherman lost not one gun or<br/>
wagon, and his entire casualties were only<br/>
1500 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TELEGRAMS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ON Sunday night, December 25, General<br/>
Butler informed Admiral Porter that the<br/>
assault of Fort Fisher was impracticable,<br/>
the fort being substantially uninjured as a<br/>
defensive work by the navy fire, and that<br/>
nothing but a regular siege would reduce<br/>
the fort. Butler has re-embarked his troops<br/>
and resolved to return to Fort Monroe as<br/>
soon as the transports are ready.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Savannah advices to December 26 report<br/>
that an effirt was being made to intercept<br/>
Hardee’s retreat before he could reach the<br/>
Broad River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hood’s infantry is reported to have<br/>
crossed the Tennessee on pontoons placed<br/>
above the reach of the Federal gunboats.<br/>
state that Hood had 110 cannon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Lee reports that Lomax had<br/>
repulsed Torbert two miles from Gordons-<br/>
ville.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Mosby is dangerously wounded
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_8_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DENMARK.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The project of the new constitution, arranged to<br/>
meet the altered circumstances of the State, has just<br/>
been published. In its essential points it is the<br/>
same as the fundamental Law of the 5th of June,<br/>
1849. It guarantees the same liberty to the citizens,<br/>
maintains the principle of universal suffrage for the<br/>
election of the Folkething and, as regards the<br/>
Landsthing, differs only in the manner of voting<br/>
the estimates, and in the establishment of an interval<br/>
of two years between the ordinary meeting of the<br/>
Rigsdag.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Minister of Finance has submitted a bill to<br/>
the Rigsraad, throwing the coasting trade open to<br/>
all nations who will grant a similar privilege to<br/>
Danish Shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A verse containing every letter in the English
Language
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The jovial swain may rack his brain,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}And tax his fancy's might ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To quiz is vain, for 'tis most plain.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent1 >}}That what I say is right.<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Thomas' Christmas gift to his wayward<br/>
sisters, a worsted hood.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There will be preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath at 4 P. M., in the New Protestant<br/>
Chapel, situated upon the river bank, adjoing the<br/>
properties of the Borneo Company Limited, and<br/>
J. Gunn & Co. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are cordially invited to attend
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the only union service in the city, and is<br/>
the continuation of one commenced about thirty<br/>
years ago.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the missionaries officiate in alphabetical<br/>
order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also a meeting there every Saturday at<br/>
4 p.m. under the direction of Prof. C. Howellson<br/>
for the purpose of practising church music.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All interested are cordially invited to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_9_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DESCRIPTION OF THE STOCKADE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
In which the Federal Prisoners were
confined at Andersonville Ga.
From New York Times
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The stockade or pen in which the<br/>
prisoners at Andersonville are confined, it<br/>
appears from the statement, is an enclosure<br/>
of fourteen acres, five of which were a<br/>
morass. Here the men were without<br/>
shelter, and in many instances almost<br/>
naked, huddled together without room<br/>
for exercise. During the last Summer<br/>
months there were scattered about in this<br/>
pen, an average of at least 500 prisoners,<br/>
who were suffering from disease in almost<br/>
every form incident to man, in a climate<br/>
to which he is unaccustomed. Five acres of<br/>
the surface of the ground were covered with<br/>
human excrement, exhaling a morbific in-<br/>
fluence which would prove fatal even to<br/>
the rice plantation laborer, accustomed<br/>
from infancy to breathing the malarious<br/>
atmosphere of his native swamplands. Con-<br/>
stantly drenched by rains receiving bad<br/>
food, always barely prepared and often<br/>
raw, in many instances naked and laboring<br/>
under a mental depression verging upon<br/>
melancholy,  feeling that their days were<br/>
numbered, the prisoners were kept in their<br/>
dreadful prison. Under these circumstances<br/>
the mortality became frightful, and as a<br/>
matter of defence from an epidemic, the<br/>
rebel authorities were compelled to thin<br/>
out the shambles early in September, by<br/>
sending several thousand of the prisoners<br/>
to a new stockade established at Savannah,<br/>
where their sufferings were considerably<br/>
alleviated. Subsequently these men on<br/>
the breaking out of the yellow fever, at<br/>
Savannah, were removed lo another prison<br/>
pen at Milan. Before the change from<br/>
Andersonville was made, eleven thousand<br/>
victims had been buried, uncoffined, in<br/>
the shallow trenches near the prison.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_9_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FROM GALIGNANI'S MESSENGER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Private letters from Saigon, of the 6th<br/>
Oct., give the following details of the situ-<br/>
ation of affairs in Cochin-China:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Rear Admiral de la Grandiere, the Gov-<br/>
ernor and Coinmander in cheif, has promul-<br/>
gated a decree on the organisation of justice<br/>
in the French possessions in Cochin-China.<br/>
That document is founded upon the most<br/>
liberal principles, it creates French and<br/>
native tribunals, and authorizes the publicity<br/>
of the proceedings in civil and criminal<br/>
matter. It has produced an excellent im-<br/>
pression on the population who, consider<br/>
as the most serious and complete guar-<br/>
antee for their interests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They see in it also a proof that the Au-<br/>
baret treaty will be ratified, and that none<br/>
of the provinces now belonging to France<br/>
will be abandoned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another favorable incident has just taken<br/>
place. The administration has effected at<br/>
Cholen the first sale of lands belonging to<br/>
the State. It took care before commencing<br/>
those auctions, to verify very minutely the<br/>
tenure of the natives, and to recognize all<br/>
legitimate right. This praiseworthy act<br/>
has had for result, to attract a great num-<br/>
ber of Chinese, and Annamite proprietors to<br/>
the spot. The biddings at the sales were<br/>
animated, and the average price obtained<br/>
was seven piastres a metre, which has pro-<br/>
duced a considerable sum to the public treas-<br/>
ury.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholen is a very important commercial<br/>
and manufacturing centre. The town is<br/>
situated at a short distance from Saigon,<br/>
and is inhabited by a very rich Chinese mer-<br/>
chants, who are about to construct num-<br/>
erous buildings, and at their own expense<br/>
erect a Bourse, a Tribunal of Commerce,<br/>
and an Entrepot for merchandise. A very<br/>
useful establishment has just beeninau gua-<br/>
ted—-the Anamite hospital of Cho-Quan,<br/>
situated between Saigon and Cholen which<br/>
will render very great services to the natives.<br/>
It is by foundations of this kind that France<br/>
will more and more attach the natives to<br/>
her. The Sisters of Saint Paul de Chartres<br/>
nurse the sick, and nothing can exceed the<br/>
profound veneration which the natives have<br/>
for them. The establishment of Cho-Quan<br/>
is one of the most popular institutions in<br/>
Cochin-China. Hospitals of the same kind<br/>
are about to be established in the other pro-<br/>
vinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_9_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ODDS AND ENDS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Diogenes paying Plato a visit, trod on his rich<br/>
carpets with his dirty feet. "Sec," said he, "how<br/>
I trample on the pride of Plato." "True," said<br/>
Plato, "but with greater pride."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing in it-—A coxcomb, teasing Dr. Parr<br/>
with an account of his petty ailments, complained<br/>
that he could never go out without catching cold in<br/>
his head. "No wonder," retorted the doctor ,<br/>
"you have no garb without anything in it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Stylites a class of ancient saints, gained much<br/>
credit with their admirers by occupying for an in-<br/>
definite period the summit of Columns. The modern<br/>
mode is to place them in the Columns of Newspapers,<br/>
which is a great improvement upon the ancient, be-<br/>
ing equally flattering to the vanity without the phys-<br/>
ical inconvenience and weariness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A young man went from New York city to the<br/>
West, where he commenced business on his own ac-<br/>
count, and married. His friends in the city were<br/>
interested in his welfare; and when a merchant was<br/>
about to journey to the place where the young man<br/>
was located, he was requested to visit the emigrant,<br/>
and ascertain how he lived, and what sort of a wife<br/>
he had chosen,—-his prospects, &c. Accordingly the<br/>
New Yorker ascertained the residence of his young<br/>
friend, and called quite early in the morning. The<br/>
introduction of the New Yorker to his wife was quite<br/>
off hand and unceremonious, and he was requested<br/>
to be seated and partake of the morning meal. The<br/>
young wife had prepared the steak, biscuit, and<br/>
coffee with her own hands, and for a table had used<br/>
her kneading board, over which a napkin was spread<br/>
and, the “board” placed on her lap. The New<br/>
Yorker declined a seat at the table and took his leave.<br/>
On making his report to his New York friends as to<br/>
how he found his young friends living, he described<br/>
the style as “magnificent;” and for the explanation<br/>
of the superlative he said, that were he the owner of<br/>
the young man’s furniture he would not take<br/>
$10,000 for the legs of his table.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If a man is given to liquor, let not liquor be given<br/>
to him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Conscience is a monitor! In too many cases it is<br/>
iron clad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If you visit a sweet girl, and if you are won and<br/>
she is won, you shall both be one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are few things so pleasant as to have a woman<br/>
at hand, that believes in you.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_9_7 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r9c">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MARCH 1ST 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r37">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where Going</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Erin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Roberts</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Peru</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Treulsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Euznie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Johnstone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Briekhold</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">572</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Buckhold</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Pearl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Kamrye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Botsford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">251</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Samarang</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Offdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">338</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Jansson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Pearl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Brock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">716</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Minna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_10_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r173">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MARCH 1ST 1865.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r174">
        <p class="r01"><b>Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Name.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date of Arrival.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Thomas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">264</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglass</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Oftdinger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">383</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bau Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Bella Donna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hammon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">277</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Comet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Slip</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Man</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">779</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">313</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Schroder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">571</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Windsor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Peh Keng Sun</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">420</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Fak</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">E. Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Pousonby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Clurnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">801</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Enphrates</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Behmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">413</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Eliza Jane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Stelze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">441</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Choa Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Janssen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Aictorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Luis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">447</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Neam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Goliath</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Gold Finder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">DeCastro</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Guan Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ritchen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Man</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">432</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Son</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Johnstone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ing Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">730</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Kiem Thay Rlien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynaert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">285</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Minna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Muller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chu</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Boon Seng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Moll</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">321</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wolffe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">716</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Peru</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Treulsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Pearl</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">272</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Koefod</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brimoth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hoc Poh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Prince of Wales</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Athey</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">387</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacon Sua</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Mackay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">816</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Carlos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chaw Sua Loolhee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seaman's Bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rothe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Choa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Seng Thai</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Demsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">474</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nai Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Ingerson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">270</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Lay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Pon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Brae</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ah Kon Koo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Rosa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">403</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Star of Peace</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Dick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hainsholt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">680</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Ket</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">303</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Kon Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ting Hay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Barret</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Ty Wat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Turner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Vereus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chin Chew Ma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r01">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r01">140</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
