---
linkTitle: 'November 1st, 1865'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 1st, 1865'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 1st'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 20
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_1 -->
{{< news/headerSlogan >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_1_2 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL I.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 1st. 1865.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">NO. 20</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-03-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Semi-monthly Journal, will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, at the month of the Canal, "Klawng Bang-<br/>
kok Yai" about 1st and 15th of every month. It<br/>
will contain much Political, Literary, Scientific, Com-<br/>
mercial, and Local Intelligence, as shall render it<br/>
worthy of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspondents<br/>
subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietors will not be responsible for the<br/>
sentiments of their correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communications will be inserted unless ac-<br/>
companied by the name of the Correspondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned unless<br/>
as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Subscription:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance: $8.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly: 4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly: 2.25<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers: 0.30<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Nom. do. 0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms of Advertising.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First Insertion—Ten lines or half a square, and<br/>
under, One Dollar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each additional tine, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, Seventy Five Cents, for<br/>
ten lines,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and each additional line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify the<br/>
number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be sent<br/>
to either of the subscribers, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. A. Mc. Donald Editor.
D. B. Bradley Publisher.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok November 1st 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We look in vain these times for some-<br/>
thing exciting from the western world, with<br/>
which to fill up our columns. Since the<br/>
crashing out of the rebellion in the United<br/>
States, and the quiet which follows, Euro-<br/>
pean journals appear to be at as great a<br/>
loss as ourselves for something to fill up<br/>
their columns. Every thing in Europe is<br/>
quiet. The review of the English and<br/>
French iron-clad fleet is over. The Atlantic<br/>
telegraph expedition has been abandoned<br/>
until spring; and even the Schleswig—Hol<br/>
stein question has been settled. Her Bri-<br/>
tannic Majesty is enjoying excellent health at<br/>
Rosenau near Coburg surrounded by most<br/>
of her children. She was to witness on<br/>
August 26th the inauguration of a memo-<br/>
rial statue in honor of the late Prince<br/>
Consort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor and Empress of the French<br/>
have been enjoying a visit to Arenberg in<br/>
Switzerland since the residence of the Em-<br/>
peror's mother. The place is big with re-<br/>
miniscences of the more youthful days of<br/>
the Emperor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Affairs in the United States are as quiet<br/>
as could be expected after what they have<br/>
passed through. Some unpleasant occur-<br/>
rences are still taking place of which the<br/>
unfortunate negro is still at the bottom.<br/>
Old prejudices against him still exist to a<br/>
certain extent in many places. It has al-<br/>
ways been a characteristic of the race to<br/>
be a little impudent when circumstances<br/>
favored. Not yet understanding fully what<br/>
freedom means, some of them may have<br/>
pressed their claims a little to far. These<br/>
things have led to several small, but un-<br/>
pleasant collisions throughout the Northern<br/>
States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the South lately in rebellion the whites<br/>
and negroes are getting along as well as<br/>
might be expected. In some places, es-<br/>
pecially in some portions of Virginia, the<br/>
whites declare they will have nothing to do<br/>
with their former slaves. In other places<br/>
however they appear to be adapting them-<br/>
selves as well as possible to the circum-<br/>
stances. Men are either hiring their form-<br/>
er slaves by the month or giving them a<br/>
certain share of what they raise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The north is evidently a little too hasty<br/>
to "reconstruct," and as a consequence of<br/>
this haste many who were lately arrayed<br/>
against the government have so adapted<br/>
themselves to the circumstances as to man-<br/>
age to get rather lucrative appointments<br/>
from the government. Whilst others who,<br/>
in sympathy at least, have remained firm to<br/>
the government, through the whole struggle<br/>
have been passed over. This is likely to<br/>
create unpleasant feelings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the English papers still insist<br/>
that there is difficulty pending between the<br/>
United States and Mexico, but we see no<br/>
thing that looks very much like it. The<br/>
reasons they assign for such a belief are the<br/>
declaration of some of the leading generals<br/>
and others. There is no doubt that such<br/>
feelings exist to a great extent and Gen.<br/>
Sheridan would desire no better past time<br/>
than to invade Mexico, but it must be re-<br/>
membered that those men are not the<br/>
government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most disgraceful thing which has<br/>
occurred for a long time in the United<br/>
States courts, was the kind of mock trial and<br/>
acquittal at Washington, of Miss Harris for<br/>
the murder of a young government clerk.<br/>
Young Burroughs a Treasury clerk, had<br/>
made a marriage engagement with Miss<br/>
Harris, which engagement he failed to ful-<br/>
fill. The lady became desperate and took<br/>
his life.  During the trial the prosecuting<br/>
attorney appearance have done his duty, but<br/>
the judge delivered no charge to the jury,<br/>
and they, after remaining out about ten<br/>
minutes returned with a verdict of "not<br/>
guilty."  The verdict was received with<br/>
enthusiasm by the crowd of spectators, who<br/>
rushed forward in numbers to congratulate<br/>
Miss. H. on her acquittal.  She fainted, and<br/>
was taken out in the arms of her senior<br/>
counsel.  The grounds of the acquittal<br/>
were that it was an act of "insane impulse."<br/>
Young men who make such engagements<br/>
should be made to fulfill them, but the law<br/>
is strict in such cases, and the injured ones<br/>
seldom fail to get redress through that,<br/>
when they apply in the proper way.  There<br/>
is no need therefore for them to take the<br/>
law in their own hands, and commit delib-<br/>
erate murder.  It is to be hoped that such<br/>
scenes will not be repeated. We are glad<br/>
to see that the press generally comes down<br/>
on the whole proceedings. There is no-<br/>
thing that reveals so clearly a fearful state<br/>
of morals, as laxity, or corruption in<br/>
courts of justice.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Consular Dignity Vs. Social
Intercourse.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the Consuls of the different Treaty<br/>
Powers here are an important class of men<br/>
I presume there are few that will attempt<br/>
to deny. There are many here who have<br/>
had a trial of it without the assistance of<br/>
these officials, and who will fully testify to<br/>
the advantages of the latter administration.<br/>
They of course are the highest official auth-<br/>
ority of the Treaty Powers here. Some of them<br/>
are invested with very high powers, from<br/>
their decision there is no appeal, and some<br/>
of them have even the power of life and<br/>
death. They deserve also great respect as<br/>
the legal representatives of the Treaty Pow-<br/>
ers here. So far therefore as they honor<br/>
the powers which have honored them they<br/>
deserve great respect from the subjects of<br/>
those powers. This I believe they one<br/>
and all have. I know of no one here, who<br/>
has not a most profound respect for the<br/>
Consul of his nation as such. I know of<br/>
no one, who would not willingly assist his<br/>
Consul, in every way in his power, in the<br/>
exercise of his official functions. And I<br/>
have not seen any one here who, notwith-<br/>
standing his personal feelings toward the<br/>
official would not enter the arena in defence<br/>
of his Consul, if he heard him assailed by<br/>
any one else. There is another matter how-<br/>
ever which is not so closely defined as those<br/>
referred to above. It is the social status<br/>
to which I refer. In this they may possibly<br/>
want to assume more than will be willingly<br/>
accorded to them. The question therefore<br/>
is how much superior socially does the<br/>
donning of the Consular button, make a<br/>
man to those whom he governs, and who<br/>
may be morally and intellectually his equal<br/>
or perhaps much his superior? These re-<br/>
marks have been suggested by some things<br/>
which have been transpiring during the last<br/>
years. His Majesty the Supreme king of<br/>
Siam has been accustomed for some years<br/>
to give a birthday dinner. It was usually a<br/>
kind of general affair to which all were in-<br/>
vited. It was not however a matter of much<br/>
grief to any one who might be passed over<br/>
in the distribution of the invitations. The<br/>
occasion gave His Majesty an opportunity<br/>
of seeing those who had become residents<br/>
of his kingdom and afforded them on the<br/>
other hand an opportunity of expressing<br/>
their good will toward him. Last year how-<br/>
ever two of the Consuls thought they could<br/>
not sit down to table with the plebeians and<br/>
consequently took upon themselves the re-<br/>
sponsibility of suggesting the setting of a se-<br/>
parate table for Consuls and the principle at-<br/>
taches. The result was that most of the guests<br/>
considered themselves insulted, and left. It<br/>
must be said however to the credit of most<br/>
of the Consuls, that they did not approve of<br/>
the affair and some of them expressed their<br/>
disapprobation. The result has been I be-<br/>
lieve the breaking up of the general dinner.<br/>
And although the one who was made the<br/>
"scape goat" last year, is not present, still<br/>
there is reason to believe that some sugges-<br/>
tions have again been made. When the<br/>
birth day came the Consuls and attaches<br/>
were alone invited to dinner. Had it end-<br/>
ed in a Consular dinner we presume it<br/>
would have cost no one a thought after-<br/>
wards but a select company was invited<br/>
the next morning to breakfast, there is<br/>
reason to believe however that it was even<br/>
more select than was intended. In this<br/>
affair therefore the Consuls have been vic-<br/>
torious. It is to be regretted that any one<br/>
would thus lower the dignity of the office<br/>
which they seek to elevate by condescending<br/>
to be master of ceremonious, of a royal<br/>
dinner. And whilst I presume there are<br/>
few who will grieve over the affair, yet it<br/>
would be well to inquire where these things<br/>
will stop, and what are our rights, even if<br/>
the inquiry should be dropped in as unsat-<br/>
isfactory a manner as the discussion of the<br/>
Pilot question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Quis.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A Kind of Angling that doesn't al-<br/>
ways take-—Fishing for compliments.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bengal Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jesuitism.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some naturalist has aptly described man<br/>
as "a religious animal." Certain it is that<br/>
there is no nation or tribe without some<br/>
sort of a religion, and a history of the or-<br/>
igin and influence of the multiplicity systems<br/>
of faith which have prevailed in the world,<br/>
would afford a most interesting study. The<br/>
somewhat unique character of the Jesuits,<br/>
and the important influence which they<br/>
have already exerted and seem likely yet<br/>
to exert upon China and Siam and other<br/>
countries in the East, has led us to look<br/>
with some care, into the history and inner<br/>
workings of the strange Order known as<br/>
the "Society of Jesus," and we propose to<br/>
lay before the readers of the Recorder an<br/>
impartial view of this "right arm" of the<br/>
Roman church. We write in the interests<br/>
Of no sect or party, but our aim is simply<br/>
to present the truth as we find it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the history of our race, all great pro-<br/>
gress has been accompanied by revolution.<br/>
What are known as the "moral forces"<br/>
have not achieved their greatest victories,<br/>
by quiet daily contest with evil, but there<br/>
have been epochs, mighty conflicts of truth<br/>
with error, where the future supremacy of<br/>
the one over the other has been staked<br/>
upon the issue of the contest. At such<br/>
periods heroes are born,—men who are<br/>
self-appointed champions of the opposing<br/>
forces,—men of comprehensive mould-masters<br/>
of the times, who are able to grapple<br/>
successfully with the difficulties of the day,<br/>
and give direction to the current of events.<br/>
Such a period was that embraced by the<br/>
latter half of the 16th and first half of the<br/>
16th century, and such a leader and hero<br/>
was Ignatius Loyola—the founder of the<br/>
Society of Jesus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those years of the Reformation were<br/>
among the most eventful of all history.<br/>
During all the dark-ages the heart and the<br/>
intellect—the church and the state of Eu-<br/>
rope had slumbered; but now the dawn<br/>
was breaking, and the long imprisoned<br/>
forces were in chaotic tumult. Yet, amid<br/>
all this confusion, there were two grand<br/>
ideas in conflict with each other, and these<br/>
were, the rule or the reign of Papacy. For<br/>
each idea, there was, in the wise order-<br/>
ing of Providence, a special champion,—<br/>
Luther, the advocate of religious and intel-<br/>
lectual liberty,—Loyola, the "incarnation<br/>
of spiritual despotism,"—the knight errant<br/>
and special defender of the Papal church.<br/>
Devoted Romans are pleased to remind<br/>
us that in all the Christian centuries, when<br/>
His truth has been particularly assailed,<br/>
God has sent forth a special servant for its<br/>
defence. Thus was the unequal contest<br/>
carried on between Athenasius and Arius,<br/>
Cyril and Nestorius, Jerome and Vigilan-<br/>
tius, Augustine and Manichees, Bernard<br/>
and Abelard, Dominic and the Albigensess,<br/>
in ancient times David and Goliath, and now<br/>
in these last days Ignatius Loyola vs. Mar-<br/>
tin Luther and John Calvin. Let but the<br/>
last equation of this series be transposed<br/>
and Protestants will give to the conclusions<br/>
drawn from it, their steady assent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But what was the mission of this great<br/>
order of Jesuits, which was reared up<br/>
as a bulwark of Romanism, and a defence<br/>
against the attacks of Luther and his co-<br/>
reformers? In making a reply to this, the<br/>
life and character of Loyola first claim our<br/>
attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1491, eight years after the birth of<br/>
Luther, and one year before the discovery<br/>
of America by Columbus, Don Ignatius<br/>
Loyola first saw the light in the mountains<br/>
of Biscay in Spain. His father was a<br/>
Count and Ignatius was reckoned as his<br/>
eight son and the thirteenth child. At an<br/>
early age he was sent to attend as page at<br/>
the Court of Ferdinand and Isabella, where<br/>
he remained to enjoy the smiles of royal<br/>
favor till the age of twenty one. At this<br/>
period while engaged in some military ex-<br/>
ploit, he received a severe fractures of his<br/>
limbs. While patiently waiting his recov-<br/>
ery, he shuffled away the tedious hours, by<br/>
reading tale of knight errantry, and a few<br/>
devotional treatises, a life of Christ, and<br/>
a book of legends of the deserts, with ac-<br/>
counts of chivalric deeds performed by<br/>
some Christian martyrs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the ambitious spirit of the young<br/>
courtier grew restive under the prolonged<br/>
constraint of hospital life. He longed for<br/>
the time to come when he could once more<br/>
grasp the sword, and with Quixotic courage<br/>
could emulate the noble deeds of the<br/>
knightly heroes of which he read. But<br/>
his dreams and ardent hopes of military<br/>
glory were not to be realized. The sur-<br/>
geon had been unskillful in setting his frac-<br/>
tured limbs. The end of the bone was<br/>
left protruding, and the right leg was<br/>
a full inch shorter than the left. Twice he<br/>
submitted without a groan to the tortures<br/>
of the rack. In order to remove the diffi-<br/>
culty, but all in vain,—he was doomed to<br/>
be a cripple for life. His towering ambi-<br/>
tion must be gratified by other than milit-<br/>
ary exploits. And what more natural than<br/>
that he should resolve to achieve sainthood!<br/>
The daily Pabulum upon which his mind was<br/>
feeding, consisted of fabulous tales of the<br/>
martyrs of the church. He determined if<br/>
possible to excel them all, in self-sacrific-<br/>
ing devotion to the faith. The examples<br/>
of the holy Dominic and the holy Francis<br/>
should serve to urge him on to yet higher<br/>
achievements. He would at once renounce<br/>
the world, and make a pilgrimage to Jeru-<br/>
salem,—barefoot, with daily flagellations.<br/>
In 1522, on the very day that Luther was<br/>
summoned to appear at the Diet of Worms<br/>
to answer for his "execrable heresies," Loy-<br/>
ola visited a church of the Virgin and<br/>
publicly dedicated himself to the service of<br/>
God.  He began his pilgrimage traveling<br/>
in the guise of a beggar.  On his way, he<br/>
paused at the village of Manresa, and<br/>
kneeling before the shrine of St. Mary, he<br/>
made a three days confession of his sins<br/>
and took upon himself the vow of perpetual<br/>
chastity.  His religious fervor grew apace,<br/>
and he burned with an intense desire to be-<br/>
come the champion of the church, and the<br/>
apostle of truth to the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Arriving at Rome, he reverently kneeled,<br/>
and devotedly kissed the toe of Pope Adrian<br/>
VI.  After many curious adventures, he<br/>
reached Jerusalem, and with high hopes<br/>
and great ardor, undertook the work of<br/>
converting the infidel Turks and Moslems<br/>
who filled the Holy City,—to Christianity.<br/>
But the Provincial objected, and forced<br/>
him to quit the place.  Thus his first mis-<br/>
sionary tour was a total failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not at all disheartened, he returned to<br/>
Barcelona, and resolved to fit himself more<br/>
thoroughly for his great work.  According-<br/>
ly he began a regular course of elementary<br/>
study, and we find him at the age of 34<br/>
thumbing his Latin Grammar and subject-<br/>
ing himself without a murmur to all the<br/>
discipline and floggings usually enjoyed by<br/>
boys a third of his age, at school.  His<br/>
student life continued for a term of nine<br/>
years, the last five of which were spent in<br/>
Paris.  By this long period of pupilage,<br/>
he attained to a good degree of literary<br/>
culture, and evinced great strength of will<br/>
and powers of endurance.  He proved his<br/>
ability to govern others, by first subduing<br/>
himself.  While pursuing his studies at<br/>
Paris, he employed much of his leisure<br/>
time in preaching the Word, and many are<br/>
the "heretics" whom he restored from<br/>
Lutheranism to the bosom of the Holy Moth-<br/>
er Church. His services in these! abors won<br/>
him many friends, and in this way was<br/>
formed the nucleus of that Company who's<br/>
influence fifteen years later, was felt in<br/>
every quarter of the globe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the next, we shall proceed to speak of<br/>
this "Company" and of the constitution,<br/>
order and practical workings of the far<br/>
famed "Society of Jesus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
C.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Blue Veil.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Look out for Lizzie, in a Blue veil, by<br/>
the six P. M. train. {{< news/indent4 >}} FRED."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A dollar and twenty cents, sir, and sign<br/>
your name in the book, if you please," said<br/>
the boy from the telegraph office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A dollar and twenty cents! sign my name<br/>
in the book!" I repeated stupidly; "but this<br/>
telegram isn't for me."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, sir.  It is sent to Mr. Charles Ches-<br/>
ter, at the Lakeville House, Lakeville, N. Y.<br/>
There is no other Mr. Chester in Lakeville,<br/>
and you always board here, so it must be<br/>
you, sir.  All right.  The telegram has just<br/>
come, and it was so near six that they sent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
me around with it in a hurry. It has been<br/>
delayed some-where in coming from New<br/>
York, but the fault wasn't at our office."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lizzie—could it be Lizzie Clare, or was<br/>
it one of Mrs. Stowell's handsome daughters?<br/>
There was no time for me to be idle in sur-<br/>
mising which Lizzie I want to meet; I paid<br/>
the boy, snapped the patent lock of my,<br/>
valise, and drove hurriedly to the depot,<br/>
duly to look out for Lizzie, to take the<br/>
night train west. The New York express<br/>
line had already arrived, and the iron horse<br/>
was snorting; impatience to be off. Pas-<br/>
sengers were crowding into the cars, bag-<br/>
gage was rattling by, the bell was ringing<br/>
—and where was Lizzie?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At length, near the door of the ladies'<br/>
room, looking uneasily around, I espied<br/>
a lady wearing the identical blue veil."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Is this the Lizzie whom I am to meet?<br/>
I ventured to ask, groaning in spirit as the<br/>
ignorance in which I had been left regard-<br/>
ing any other occomen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! yes. And this must be Mr. Chester,<br/>
I suppose. You knew me by my blue veil,<br/>
did you not? Fred said that would be a<br/>
sufficient signal. You are very kind to take<br/>
charge of me. I was fearful that you would<br/>
find the care of a lady a great burden on a<br/>
night journey; but Fred insisted that you<br/>
would not mind it, if you took the trouble<br/>
for him; so here I am, as you perceive. Are<br/>
not the cars just about starting!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"If I have time to see to your baggage," I<br/>
managed to say.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! thank you; but Fred had it check-<br/>
ed through, and bought my ticket. It is<br/>
all right."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I knew it was all wrong; but what bache-<br/>
lor of two-and-thirty would decline to es-<br/>
cort a charming Lizzie in a blue veil, thus<br/>
mysteriously committed to his protection!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had just a minute and a half in which<br/>
to secure our seats ere the western train<br/>
was off, and my companion uttered a very<br/>
contented murmur of satisfaction as we<br/>
slowly steamed out of the depot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! I was fearful that you would not<br/>
be here to meet me, Mr. Chester," she said,<br/>
"and I dreaded to undertake the journey<br/>
alone."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is a long journey," I replied, with a<br/>
faint hope that I might tempt her to men-<br/>
tion her destination.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Very long," she answered, demurely.<br/>
A call of the conductor revealed the fact<br/>
that the lady was going to Cleveland. My<br/>
ticket had been purchased for Cincinnati,<br/>
previous to the reception of that bewilder-<br/>
ing telegram, and I thought with some sat-<br/>
isfaction that I could stop in Cleveland, if<br/>
I so pleased, without any change of route.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we rode along, I scanned my travel-<br/>
ling companion as closely as I dared; but<br/>
only a suggestion of bright eyes, ruby lips<br/>
and a dazzling complexion reached me<br/>
through the blue veil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I think we have never met until to-day,"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I remarked, hazarding an observation which<br/>
might or might not prove to be correct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! no; but I have heard Fred speak<br/>
of you so frequently that I do not feel as<br/>
if we could be strangers long."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She smiled, and put up her blue veil. With<br/>
the veil lifted, she looked somewhat older<br/>
than I expected; I had fancied she was<br/>
seventeen, but she now appeared seven-and-<br/>
twenty. Yet she was so fair, so dazzling<br/>
white with eyes which matched the blue<br/>
of her veil; but I forgot the question of<br/>
her age is speculating on the possibility of<br/>
her being near-sighted. Seated by that<br/>
radiant vision, I became specially conscious<br/>
of my rough coat and shabby man-of-busin-<br/>
ess aspect; and, while I secretly vowed an<br/>
amendment for all future time, in various<br/>
particulars, I hoped that she might not<br/>
prove too observing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This is rather a sudden journey of mine,"<br/>
remarked my fair companion, "My trunk<br/>
is nearly packed, and I expected to leave<br/>
on next Monday, and travel alone; but when<br/>
Fred heard that you were going to take the<br/>
evening train, he telegraphed to you immedi-<br/>
ately, and hurried me off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Ah! Fred," through I, "it seems to me<br/>
I have you now.  It is just like gay Fred<br/>
Dalrymple to surprise one which such a tele-<br/>
gram, all in the dark, and this must be his<br/>
sister Lizzie. She is going to Cleveland to<br/>
visit Robert and his wife; and Fred, hear-<br/>
ing that I was to start on my trip to-night,<br/>
sent his sister along, under my care, without<br/>
my ceremony."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mystery was explained, and with a<br/>
lighter heart I turned to the young lady,<br/>
stimulated by this discovery in my previous<br/>
determination to render myself desperately<br/>
agreeable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"How is your dear Jenny!" suddenly in-<br/>
quired my comrade of the blue veil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My dear Jenny!" mused I. "Oh yes,<br/>
sister Jane, I presume, she means."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"She is very well," I replied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We have so often exchanged messages<br/>
with our love, through the medium of your<br/>
correspondence with Fred, that I feel quite<br/>
well acquainted with that dear Jenny, Mr.<br/>
Chester."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Humph!" I said to myself, "just like<br/>
Fred Dalrymple to forget to deliver his<br/>
sister's messages, and than invent replies<br/>
to satisfy her questions and cover his<br/>
negligence."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And do tell me something about that<br/>
baby," continued Fred's sister. "You need<br/>
not be afraid of praising it to me, for you<br/>
know we ladies always take a lively interest<br/>
in babies."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I would gladly gratify you if it were<br/>
possible," I replied; "but, to own the truth,<br/>
I seldom take much notice of the baby race."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"As if I should believe you in this par-<br/>
ticular instance," returned my interlocutor,<br/>
quite gayly. "Why, somebody told Fred<br/>
that you burned the gas all night, on pur-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
pose to see how cunning this wonderful<br/>
baby looks when asleep."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Me!" I exclaimed in horror.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes! You need not deny it," said she.<br/>
"I can readily understand that bashfulness<br/>
conceals your raptures. Of course, it is<br/>
intended for you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It happened that sister Jenny's youngest<br/>
child had been christened Charlie in honor<br/>
of his bachelor uncle, and I surmised<br/>
that her supposition was not incorrect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"When I see Jenny I shall feel it is my<br/>
duty to tell her what heartless indifference<br/>
you have feigned in regard to that baby;<br/>
but you cannot impose upon me," said the<br/>
owner of the blue veil. "I shall acquit you<br/>
of possessing any of the old bachelor non-<br/>
chalance with which you have tried to veil<br/>
your interest."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You must not expect to manufacture a<br/>
baby worshipper out of an old bachelor," I<br/>
said, jestingly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! no; but young fathers are not such<br/>
sublime savages as you would try to have<br/>
me believe."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Gracious! what can she mean!" was my<br/>
silent ejaculation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As she did not seem inclined to rally us<br/>
further we fell into quite converse on com-<br/>
mon-place themes, very much as if we had<br/>
been some dozens years acquainted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We will ride all night," I said, finally,<br/>
"and ought I not to secure a berth for you in<br/>
the sleeping car! I notice that you seem<br/>
very much fatigued."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I am weary; but I detest those sleeping<br/>
cars."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"So do I the same," was my hearty re-<br/>
joinder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Really and truly!" she asked, with some<br/>
incredulity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I fancied that I ought to take one on<br/>
your account, to release you from the pen-<br/>
ance of sitting up in these hard seats all<br/>
night.  But it would be a great pleasure to<br/>
me, if you could be as comfortable, to have<br/>
you accept my shawl, and my arm for a pil-<br/>
low, and make yourself cosy for the night."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Do you thing that Jenny will not object<br/>
to my accepting such a service of you?"<br/>
she asked, sweetly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Certainly, Jenny will not object," I as-<br/>
sured her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I would gladly have added that Jenny<br/>
would not object, on some future day, to<br/>
be presented with a sister-in-law wearing a<br/>
blue veil, but I hardly dared to hazard the<br/>
suggestion while our acquaintance was still<br/>
so recent a date.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She took off her bonnet—a dainty bit of<br/>
millinery—-which I regarded with a species<br/>
of silent awe, and scarcely ventured to put<br/>
up in the rack above us. Then the blue veil<br/>
was tied tightly over her curls, and resting<br/>
her head upon my shoulder, the beauty was<br/>
soon asleep.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But I, Charley Chester, could not sleep—-<br/>
too many visions were haunting me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Was this really Fred Dalrymple's Lizzie!<br/>
would I ever see her again after this journey<br/>
was ended! And oh! most desperate and<br/>
enticing speculation of all, could I ever hope<br/>
to take to myself the life-long burden of<br/>
looking out for Linnie is a blue veil!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This might seem to thee delicious<br/>
reverie. When we were within a few miles<br/>
of Cleveland, my face changed color.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Do you feel rested?" I inquired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! very much. You are exceedingly<br/>
kind to have taken such care of me. Fred<br/>
told me that Jenny's husband would be a<br/>
most desirable escort, but I find that he<br/>
scarcely told me half the truth."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jenny's husband! It struck me dumb,<br/>
so I was Jenny's husband, was 1!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Neither shall I believe, after your gen-<br/>
tleness and attention to me, that you can be<br/>
as indifferent to your baby as you would try<br/>
to have me think."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My baby! The woman was adding insult<br/>
to injury! First a wife, and then a baby be-<br/>
stowed on me, at five minutes' notice, as<br/>
if they were the most every-day affairs in<br/>
the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I think we must be near Cleveland,"<br/>
continued my companion, arranging her<br/>
tangled curls, and putting on her bonnet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is possible that my husband may be<br/>
at the depot, to meet me, and relieve you<br/>
of any further trouble on my account. If he<br/>
is not there, I shall only ask you to put<br/>
me in a coach, and send me home—unless,<br/>
indeed, I can prevail upon you to stop over<br/>
one or two trains in Cleveland, and visit<br/>
us. My husband would be delighted to<br/>
have you. Why will you not be content to do so?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not Fred Dalrymple's sister, after all! I<br/>
muttered something in reply, I know not<br/>
what, but she took it as a refusal to accept<br/>
her hospitality, and continued—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And if you cannot or will not stay with<br/>
us now, I want you to promise that you<br/>
will come soon, and bring dear Jenny and<br/>
the baby, and make us a long visit."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cars stopped.  We had reached<br/>
Cleveland, and the ensuing bustle relieved<br/>
me from the necessity of replying.  I assist-<br/>
ed her to alight, and consigned her to the<br/>
arms of a tall, bearded fellow, who kissed<br/>
dear Lizzie before my very eyes!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And this is Mr. Chester-—Fred's friend,<br/>
you know, Harry."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harry rolled his eyes around, but evident-<br/>
ly did not recognize me, and said nothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Fred received a letter from Mr. Chester,<br/>
saying he would be in Lakeville on business<br/>
on Tuesday, and would take charge of me<br/>
if I would meet him at the evening train—so<br/>
Fred telegraphed to him to look out for me,<br/>
and here I am, very much obliged for his<br/>
care and escort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But where is he all this time!" asked<br/>
the husband, impatiently.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Hang the blue veil! There is some mis-<br/>
take here," I exclaimed, pulling out the<br/>
telegram as a voucher for me. "I am Char-<br/>
les Chester, of Lakeville, at your service.<br/>
I reside in Lakeville, and I received this<br/>
dispatch yesterday. I took charge of this<br/>
lady as well as I knew how; and though I<br/>
could not satisfactorily decided who she might<br/>
be, or by whom committed to my care, it<br/>
is only within half an hour I have discover-<br/>
ed that I, myself, was not the Charles<br/>
Chester who should have been on the "look<br/>
out for Lizzie, in a blue veil!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They started. They read the telegram.<br/>
The oddity of the mistake bewitched us all,<br/>
and they took him home with them to laugh<br/>
it over where they found that no Jenny was<br/>
awaiting me at my journey's end. And as<br/>
all's well that ends well, let me tell you that<br/>
my young wife, to-day, is Lizzie's sister,<br/>
and equally partial to a blue veil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
North American.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wat Visiting.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—Among the many displays<br/>
which His Majesty the supreme king of Siam<br/>
has recently made of his glory as monarch of<br/>
the country and protector of the Boodhist re-<br/>
ligion, none probably was more august than<br/>
that of the 14th inst. in state Barges on the<br/>
river near the royal palace and in Bang-<br/>
kok-yai cana' near the office of the "Recor-<br/>
der." As in entering this canal His Majesty<br/>
must necessarily pass near the office, and<br/>
thinking perhaps that I would be out taking<br/>
notes of the scene for publication in the Re-<br/>
corder, His Majesty sent an officer to me<br/>
about an hour beforehand to invite me and<br/>
my family to repair to Wat-Hong, the tem-<br/>
ple which he was to visit, and have a view<br/>
of the royal procession from its landing. The<br/>
order was, that I should go prepared with<br/>
paper and pencil for taking all the notes I<br/>
might think proper. I had previously made<br/>
up my mind that in consequence of a pre-<br/>
sure of cares I would make no effort to see<br/>
His Majesty that day though he were go-<br/>
ing to pass close by my gate. But as the<br/>
opportunity presented by the invitation of<br/>
the king was one wholly unprecedented for<br/>
acquiring accurate information of much<br/>
that was yet enveloped in darkness to for-<br/>
eigners about the royal visitations of the<br/>
temples, I could not well decline the liber-<br/>
al offer. There were then waiting with<br/>
me several persons of the Am. missionary<br/>
community hoping to get a clear view of<br/>
His Majesty in passing the gate. These the<br/>
king's messenger felt at liberty to invite<br/>
with myself and family into the immediate<br/>
presence of His Majesty at Wat-Hong.<br/>
And as it was an extraordinary opportunity,<br/>
favoring well their object, they gladly<br/>
availed themselves of it. The king's mes-<br/>
senger advised us all to get into a boat at<br/>
once, and hasten to the temple that we might<br/>
have leisure for making observations about<br/>
and within the sacred enclosures, before<br/>
the arrival of the royal cortege. We did so,<br/>
having him with us clothed with the high-<br/>
est authority for giving us full scope; con-<br/>
sequently no one dared to offer the least<br/>
objection to our scrutinizing as minutely as<br/>
we could wish even within the Sanctum<br/>
Sanctorum.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being the only person in the company<br/>
prepared for taking notes, I endeavored to<br/>
improve to the best of my ability the op-<br/>
portunity given me. Although I have been<br/>
a resident in this city more than 30 years<br/>
I then saw many things that were novel to<br/>
me, having never before had so close and<br/>
careful a view of them, and only<br/>
vague reports of others. But it will not<br/>
do for me to think of inflicting upon your<br/>
readers the task of reading a full account of<br/>
what I regarded as worthy of note, and<br/>
hence I will confine myself to a few of the<br/>
most interesting particulars.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having spent half an hour in walking<br/>
about the court of the temple, passing even<br/>
into the OOBOSOTE—the sanctum sanctorum,<br/>
where all the priests of the temple are<br/>
initiated, and where the king worships the<br/>
idol once a year, the long accustomed<br/>
Siamese proclamation Sadet Laaoh, (the<br/>
king is coming) together with the rushing<br/>
of state Barges, and the sounding of OLD<br/>
SIAM trumpets and the playing of the<br/>
brass-band of YOUNG SIAM, announced to<br/>
us clearly that the king was approaching.<br/>
Our royal guide advised us all to stand on<br/>
the right side of the landing by which His<br/>
Majesty would enter the court of the tem-<br/>
ple. We had previously been sitting in a<br/>
Sala at the landing a little elevated above<br/>
the walk on which the king would proceed<br/>
into the most holy place. Hence it was<br/>
thought becoming in us to come down a<br/>
step or two to be on a common level with<br/>
Siam's Monarch when he should there favor<br/>
us with his gracious audience and royal<br/>
salutation. And this we had no hesitancy<br/>
in doing as it required no sacrifice of prin-<br/>
ciple and no undue humiliation as we were<br/>
allowed to stand up in our common manhood<br/>
with the king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The procession of royal Barges was in-<br/>
deed grand as it passed in the canal leading<br/>
to the temple. His Majesty was seated on a<br/>
highly gilded throne under a pagoda-form-<br/>
ed canopy in one of the royal Dragon<br/>
Barges, propelled by eighty men with pad-<br/>
dles. He was fully and richly attired in gar-<br/>
ments wrought with gold, and decked with<br/>
diamonds and other precious stones. He<br/>
wore a hat of immense brim adorned with<br/>
gold and jewels. His Majesty being of slen-<br/>
der form, the Prā Mahā-Mala, as the royal<br/>
hat is called, did not become him nearly as<br/>
well as it would have done one of his cor-<br/>
pulent halfbrothers. Still it distinguished<br/>
him as the Monarch, and that was was enough.<br/>
More than a dozen of His Majesty's child-<br/>
ren followed him in another beautiful Barge<br/>
with capacious acomomodations for a large<br/>
family of little Princes and Princesses which<br/>
the king is fond of taking with him on such<br/>
occasions. Somdet Chowfah, the heir ap-<br/>
parent, a smart lad of 12 years had a fine<br/>
Barge all by himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having waited a few minutes for the<br/>
princes and lords, the royal guard and brass<br/>
band to get in readiness to receive him in the<br/>
court of the temple, His Majesty laid off his<br/>
hat of estate, and taking his sceptre in hand<br/>
walked golden shod up the steps of the<br/>
landing alone, while all his subjects, await-<br/>
ing him in the temple, as well as in the<br/>
Barges were prostrated in the profoundest<br/>
submission. As we had assigned to us a<br/>
standing position near the landing, and as<br/>
I was the elder of the company, His Majes-<br/>
ty immediately saluted me, and gave me his<br/>
hand, and then walked forward on the grass<br/>
matting which had been spread out for him<br/>
the whole way to the Oobosote, which may<br/>
have been 40 rods or more.  A company<br/>
of the royal guard on the left of the path<br/>
presented arms as the king passed, and the<br/>
brass-band played the first strain of "God<br/>
save the king." His Majesty having over-<br/>
heard one of my company inquire whether<br/>
we might be allowed to follow him into the<br/>
temple, promptly responded—-O yes.  We<br/>
accordingly followed the train into the<br/>
porch of the Oobosote.  We observed just<br/>
outside of the porch a large flat water basin<br/>
having the appearance of being made of silver<br/>
in which it was said that His Majesty<br/>
washed his feet before he went into the<br/>
holy place.  There was passing from the<br/>
basin into the temple a clean strip of muslin<br/>
on which the king walked to preserve<br/>
himself from any further defilement with<br/>
earth before entering the most holy place.<br/>
The balcony surrounding the Oobosote,<br/>
was decorated with numerous bouquets set<br/>
in neat vases. There was also arranged<br/>
tastefully among these flowers a great vari-<br/>
ety of the fruits of Siam common to the<br/>
season. All these things were intended as<br/>
offerings by the people, not to the idol, but<br/>
to their king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We supposed of course that the invita-<br/>
tion given us by the king would allow us<br/>
to proceed no further than barely into the<br/>
entrance of the sacred hall. But the event<br/>
proved that we had unduly limited it.<br/>
His Majesty being at the farther end, and<br/>
seeing us all standing at the door, beckoned<br/>
us to come to him. We promptly com-<br/>
plied with the call, and went up and stood<br/>
within six feet of him at his right hand<br/>
as he went through with all the ceremonies<br/>
of the occasion. Here we had a clear<br/>
view of what heretofore we had been able<br/>
to get only from the reports of natives.<br/>
The naked halls of Oobosotes and the dumb<br/>
idols seated each high on thrones where the<br/>
old fashioned christian churches had their<br/>
pulpits, we had many times seen. But the<br/>
king of Siam prostrate before the idol and<br/>
a hundred or more Boodhist priest's<br/>
closely packed, seated on the floor on the<br/>
right side of the hall, holding their telapoins<br/>
or fans and taking their turns in the wor-<br/>
ship and rehearsals we had never before<br/>
witnessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between the king and the idol stood<br/>
an ordinary table about 4 feet by 3, and<br/>
on this were ten candles in quite common<br/>
glass stands arranged in rows of five each.<br/>
These were nearest the king. Next beyond<br/>
were five golden vases containing each<br/>
what appeared to be a large cake of pago-<br/>
da-form but which, as the king informed<br/>
us, was made of wood and painted to have<br/>
the appearance of being a cake of parched<br/>
corn. The next row consisted of five<br/>
similar vases filled with flowers. There were<br/>
also here and there a few incense sticks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty was seated on a silken rug<br/>
eight feet square. On the same rug on<br/>
either side of him were carefully arranged<br/>
a cashion richly wrought with gold and<br/>
set with jewels,—a gold drinking cup,—<br/>
a gold cigar case,—a betel box elegantly fin-<br/>
ished with gold and glistening with diam-<br/>
onds, and the royal sword and lance in scab-<br/>
bards thickly studded with rubies, emeralds<br/>
and diamonds. Besides these there were<br/>
many other costly and to me nameless arti-<br/>
cles, intended to display the riches and<br/>
glory of His Majesty. One of the vessels<br/>
was of solid gold weighing at the least two<br/>
pounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after the king had taken his seat<br/>
in the midst of those insignia of royalty<br/>
he first lighted the candles and the incense<br/>
sticks. He then bowed down on his knees<br/>
and elbows with his face in the palms of<br/>
his hands to the floor and thus worshipped<br/>
the idol. Rising from this prostration he<br/>
turned to me and said, that what I had pub-<br/>
lisbed in the Bangkok Calendar for 1863<br/>
under the head—What the king does in<br/>
the temple, was incorrect in several respects.<br/>
The chief of which appeared to be the state-<br/>
ment I made that the king then renews form-<br/>
erly his covenant to keep sometimes the<br/>
five and sometimes the eight rules of the<br/>
Boodhist religion. He acknowledged that<br/>
that was the old custom, but said, that in<br/>
this reign it had been dispensed with. This<br/>
statement was made in the " King's Eng-<br/>
lish" which no man can murder, and which<br/>
it is exceedingly difficult for an English-<br/>
man or American to understand. Hence it<br/>
is quite possible that I have not got precise-<br/>
ly the idea His Majesty meant to convey<br/>
to me, but not at all probable that I have<br/>
in the main misunderstood him. It struck<br/>
me, on hearing that statement, that it indi-<br/>
cates a marked declension from strict Bood-<br/>
hism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty next proceeded to make a<br/>
formal presentation of suits of yellow robes<br/>
to the priests. He first took a small part<br/>
of a suit in both hands, and in a kneeling<br/>
posture held it up between his face and<br/>
the idol. Then turning to his left towards<br/>
the chief priest sitting near by, he presented<br/>
the robe with the same genuflections<br/>
and manipulations as when it was present-<br/>
ed to the idol excepting that he touched<br/>
his nose to the garment as the last act.<br/>
Taking it from the hand of the king, the<br/>
priest then, in concert with eight or ten<br/>
others, holding their telapoins up before<br/>
then responded attoo satoo—-meaning that<br/>
it is accomplished or perhaps more strictly<br/>
amen and amen. This being finished the<br/>
next move of His Majesty was to place all<br/>
the ten or dozen suits, that had been ap-<br/>
propriated to that company of priests, on a<br/>
large vase or platter together, whereupon<br/>
the chief priest led in Pali rehearsals over<br/>
them. And then the whole hundred or<br/>
more of the clerical fraternity joined in a<br/>
Pali incantation which made the lofty ceil-<br/>
ing as one grand sounding board and<br/>
completely filled the place with the pecu-<br/>
liar roaring of Booddhist chanting. His Ma-<br/>
jesty in the next place distributed the suits<br/>
to eight or ten of the priests, such probably,<br/>
as had been previously designated as suit-<br/>
able subjects of this royal favor. Having<br/>
received them, they all retired for a few<br/>
minutes into some kind of a vestry, and<br/>
dressing themselves in their new robes re-<br/>
turned and held other services, among<br/>
which was prostrating themselves in their<br/>
several places unto the idol. In this they<br/>
were joined by the whole body of the<br/>
priests-—This they did three times in quick<br/>
succession-—And then followed again Pali<br/>
rehearsals in general concert. The chief<br/>
priest next addressed the recipients of the<br/>
new clothing, to which they immediately<br/>
responded and then finally the whole band<br/>
chanted again in concert.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While all this was going on I stood up<br/>
by one of the immense twelve brick pillars<br/>
supporting the ceiling, and used my pencil<br/>
in taking notes as freely as I would have<br/>
done in any other place. My fellow visitors<br/>
stood near by me conversing freely with<br/>
His Majesty's charming children, some of<br/>
whom were sitting on the floor about us,<br/>
and some standing, most of them talkative,<br/>
asking many questions about our dress, our<br/>
country, our children, and our religion.<br/>
There was not the least appearance of fear<br/>
or reverence for the idol in any thing they<br/>
said or did. One of the lads, a folicksome<br/>
follow, even made sport of the great golden<br/>
image of Boodh, and said—this idol is a<br/>
stupid creature, and cannot talk. The one<br/>
we have at home, said he, can talk not only<br/>
Pali and Siamese, but English as well. In<br/>
this remark he referred to a time when one<br/>
of our number was visiting some of her old<br/>
pupils in the royal palace. This regal<br/>
spring of young Siam, then ran behind one<br/>
of the idols there, and made himself spokes-<br/>
man for it, speaking in the English lan-<br/>
guage, and sportively said, "see how well he<br/>
can speak English."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king himself evinced very little rev-<br/>
erence in all that we saw him do at the<br/>
altar. He mixed up his devotions with<br/>
free conversation with myself, and com-<br/>
panions on a variety of quite undevotional<br/>
topics. Indeed the whole affair appeared<br/>
more like an effort to show how little of<br/>
heart the present monarch of Siam and<br/>
sworn protector of the Boodhist faith has<br/>
in the religion of the country, than of a<br/>
display of his zeal for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These children of His Majesty were very<br/>
richly, and beautifully arrayed in golden<br/>
garments thickly studded with diamonds,<br/>
and other precious stones. They were lit-<br/>
erally loaded down with gold chains, neck-<br/>
laces, wristlets, anklets, having several of<br/>
each and each of them quite heavy. The<br/>
complexion of their faces and hands was<br/>
converted to a soft cream colour by cosmet-<br/>
ics, and their keen black eyes sparkled<br/>
like splendid diamonds under their raven<br/>
colored eyebrows, and lashes. Their royal<br/>
sire was evidently very proud of them,<br/>
seeming to be more desirous to exhibit<br/>
them to us and the multitude than to dis-<br/>
play any other phase of his glory as a<br/>
monarch. The heir apparent, Somdet<br/>
Chowfah was occasionally among them, and<br/>
evinced a bright mind, and like a lad of<br/>
promise, did not rely very much up-<br/>
on dress to show forth his preeminence in<br/>
the royal family. His Majesty's first born<br/>
after ascending the throne, a charming look-<br/>
ing princess of about 15 years of age, was<br/>
there. As I was in attendance on her royal<br/>
mother soon after her birth, and had the fire<br/>
removed from the bed in which she was<br/>
writhing, and was thus the means, as His<br/>
Majesty has ever been pleased to think, of<br/>
saving both mother and child, the king took<br/>
peculiar interest in calling my attention to<br/>
this daughter. Taking her by the hand,<br/>
and lifting her up from her seat on the floor,<br/>
he lead her to me, and put her hand in<br/>
mine, when she saluted me very handsomely<br/>
in the English tongue. His Majesty then<br/>
remarked that many of his children could<br/>
now speak English quite well. This ac-<br/>
quisition he would have us understand was<br/>
mainly to be put to the credit of Mrs.<br/>
Leonowens their accomplished teacher.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The time we were in the Oobosote was<br/>
but little short of an hour. The first move<br/>
of the assembly to retire was the walking<br/>
of His Majesty toward the door of the hall.<br/>
Presently a number of royal servants come in<br/>
and gathered up all the insignia of royalty<br/>
and other articles belonging peculiarly to<br/>
the king and carried them down to the royal<br/>
Barges. His Majesty halted a little at the<br/>
porch and presented some little tokens of<br/>
friendship to His Highness Krom Hluong<br/>
Wongsa who had been waiting there during<br/>
the ceremonies. In descending to the royal<br/>
Barge the soldiers and the brass-band sa-<br/>
luted His Majesty in the same manner as<br/>
when he ascended. It required some eight<br/>
or ten minutes for the king to get himself<br/>
adjusted on his little pagoda-formed throne,<br/>
and to array himself in full state as when<br/>
he came, and for all classes of his attendants<br/>
to get themselvs in readiness to move off<br/>
in due order. When all were ready, a man<br/>
dressed in dirty white muslin kneeled be-<br/>
fore His Majesty from the fore part of the<br/>
royal barque and chanted a few words of<br/>
praise to the king. Then all the boatmen<br/>
prostrated themselves unto him three times<br/>
on elbows and knees with their faces<br/>
in their hands down on a level with their<br/>
seats. They were fully clothed in red<br/>
woolen fabric, and their caps seemed to<br/>
be made of the same, and were rather taste-<br/>
fully formed. The boatmen of the second<br/>
royal barque were clothed in like manner,<br/>
but did not I think unite in the triple<br/>
prostrations. When the cortege began to<br/>
move, the boatmen paddled to an ancient<br/>
tune as to Siamese words, all of course in<br/>
praise of their king.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_7_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Boodhism Vs. Christianity.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is a translation of an<br/>
article received in answer to one which<br/>
appeared in our last Siamese issue of the<br/>
Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I understand the numerous questions you<br/>
ask about the Christian and Boodhist reli-<br/>
gion, and beg to answer a few of them<br/>
briefly. In the endless discussions of those<br/>
who hold to different religions there is no use<br/>
of getting angry at all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The assertion you make concerning the<br/>
Boodhist religion, that it is plunged in ut-<br/>
ter darkness, and does not spread nor-en<br/>
large at all, I would answer by saying that<br/>
the precepts of that religion are opposed to<br/>
the depraved passions and natural bent of<br/>
the human heart, just like a man rowing a<br/>
boat against the current of a rapid stream.<br/>
Those only who have great patience and<br/>
perseverance can succeed in stemming the<br/>
current. B?ddhism is very deep, and<br/>
intricate, and difficult to be understood,<br/>
because it opposes the will of man. It is<br/>
not a religion to satisfy the present want as<br/>
scratching satisfies the desire excited by<br/>
itching. For the reason those who have<br/>
arrived at an understanding of it have done<br/>
so by the attainment, in the first place, of a<br/>
state of indifference to everything. If we<br/>
should go abroad and teach this religion in<br/>
other countries no body would believe or<br/>
receive it. Not even those who do hold to<br/>
it are able to live up to its precepts. It is<br/>
only those who have firm unshaken belief<br/>
in it that can live up to it at all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What you said with reference to light and<br/>
darkness, that those who believe in the<br/>
Christian religion, have great prosperity—<br/>
their country flourishes, and light and know-<br/>
ledge abounds, because of the power of<br/>
that religion, I cannot yet agree with. I<br/>
have understood that there are many in<br/>
Europe who do not hold to the Christian<br/>
religion, who yet have light and knowledge<br/>
just the same as those who do hold to it;<br/>
What light is this that shines and gives<br/>
them prosperity, pray!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again the Siamese, Chinese, Peguans,<br/>
and Cochin Chinese in this country who<br/>
have become Christians, hold to that reli-<br/>
gion more firmly than the people of Euro-<br/>
pe, and yet I have not seen them have any<br/>
prosperity. On the contrary, they are much<br/>
in debt, and in slavery. Why does not that<br/>
light come and shine upon them better<br/>
then on them who are not Christians ! If<br/>
Christians have more prosperity than any<br/>
other see, if they have more wealth, live to<br/>
a greater age, have more happiness, and do<br/>
not grow old nor die, nor never become<br/>
poor, I will agree with you that the Chris-<br/>
tian religion is indeed a great blessing. But<br/>
this blessing I do not yet see, and how can<br/>
I hold to it?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To what you state about your having re-<br/>
ceived a royal invitation to visit the temple<br/>
Wat Hōngsa-ran where you saw the idols,<br/>
and what you say about the impropriety<br/>
of worshipping idols, in answer I beg to<br/>
say, that those who make Bōddhist images<br/>
use them for the purpose of leading and as-<br/>
sisting their hearts in thinking of Bōddh.<br/>
They do not hold that the image is god; it<br/>
is only something to assist the minds of<br/>
those who look at them, in thinking of him<br/>
who is the most exalted and sacred teach-<br/>
er. He had truely a body. But those who<br/>
hold to the images of tawada in the san<br/>
chòw, I think are wrong, because they<br/>
represent beings that have no body, they are<br/>
invisible. Whether there are truely such<br/>
beings as tawada or not I do not know.<br/>
What advantage is there in worshipping<br/>
the images of beings that have had no<br/>
bodies, or indeed any thing we cannot see?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What you say about your visit to the<br/>
idol's temple, and the fear you express,<br/>
lest any one should think that you were<br/>
half inclined to believe in the Bōddhist re-<br/>
ligion, I think is true. Whosoever believes<br/>
strictly, as you profess to do, in the Chris-<br/>
tian religion, would never enter the doors<br/>
of an idolatrous place of worship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In what I have said, if I have given you<br/>
any offence, it is wholly unintentional, and<br/>
I beg that you will forgive the expressions<br/>
used.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The above will be answered in the next<br/>
issue of the Siamese department of the<br/>
Recorder.] Ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_7_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Names of Canal's etc.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the Supreme King of Siam<br/>
having sent us an article for our Siamese<br/>
issue, directing how the people shall hence-<br/>
forth call certain new canals and roads;<br/>
we give below a translation of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The canal which begins at the Custom<br/>
House and leads to Wat Tēwārāt-kōōn<br/>
ch'awn, commonly called New Canal, shall<br/>
be called Klawng p'́adoong-Kroong-krarem.<br/>
The canal which leaves the Klawng<br/>
p'́adoong-Kroong-krarem and passes straight<br/>
to Bangaw, south of the mouth of the<br/>
canal Prá kânong, shall be called Klawng<br/>
Tánon-trong.  The road upon its bank<br/>
shall be denominated Tánon-trong.  The<br/>
new road leading from Wat Prá ch'etoo<br/>
p'on straight through the city walls over a<br/>
canal to the Malay and Cambodian village,<br/>
and then bending comes near to Fort Pit-<br/>
chānuk; and then passes over the Klawng-<br/>
p'́adoong-Kroong-krarem, going straight<br/>
to Bang-kaw-krŭm, shall be called Tánon<br/>
chāmrǒn-kroong.  It is hereby forbidden<br/>
that any other names be used for these<br/>
canals and roads than those herein given.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BIRTH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 17th October, the wife of J. M. T. da<br/>
Costa Esqr, of a son
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would you be exempt from uneasiness<br/>
do not one thing you know or suspect to<br/>
be wrong. Would you enjoy the purest<br/>
pleasure, do every thing in your power you<br/>
are convinced is right.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_7_7 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r02"><b>PRICE CURRENT.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>Rice—The prospect for the new rice is</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r01">very favorable; and a fair crop is expected-</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r01">Prices of the old grain has fallen con-</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rbd">
        <p class="r01">siderable; Namuang, Tic. 52, Nasuan Tic.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">62 Coyan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sugar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 1 Tic. 14<span class="s1">⅝</span> pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 2<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>" 14 pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">White No. 3<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>" 13¼ pls.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Supplies Limited.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Brown Tic. 6½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Scarcely any in stock in market.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Pepper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Black Tic. 6½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sapan-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">4 @ 5 pl. Tic. 2¾</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">5 @ 6 pl. Tic. 2½</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teak-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Scarce Tic. 10½ Yok.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Rose-wood</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 210 @ 240</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">100 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Buffalo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Hides-Tic. 10¼ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Horns Black Tic. 10¾ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 13½ picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gum-benjamin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Prime Tic. 210</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">middline Tic. 150 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gamboge</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 49 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Teelseed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 79½ @ Coyan.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Sticklao</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Tic. 13</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">No. 2 Tic. 11 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Ivory</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic. 330 @ 235 picul according to size</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Cardimums</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Best Tic. 160 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Bastard 21<span class="s1">⅞</span> picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Mat Bags</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Tic 83 piculs 1000.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Silk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Laos, Tic 255,</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">Cochin China Tic. 700 picul.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Gold leaf</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">No. 1 Ansing Tic. 19¾ Tical weight</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9f">
        <p class="r01">Exchange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r01">On Singapore 5 cent premium.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—is now<br/>
ready to receive Vessels of any burthen<br/>
and the attention of Ship Owners,<br/>
Agents and Masters is respectfully<br/>
solicited to the advantages for Repair-<br/>
ing and Sparring Vessels which no<br/>
other Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of the<br/>
Premises is submitted for the informa-<br/>
tion of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of wa-<br/>
ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Length. 300 feet. (to be extended)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breadth. 100 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Depth of Water 15 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Caisson,<br/>
has a splendid entrance of 120 feet<br/>
from the River with a spacious Jetty on<br/>
each side, where Vessels of any size<br/>
may lay at any state of the Tides, to<br/>
lift Masts, Boilers etc.—with Powerful<br/>
Lifting Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring Dis-<br/>
patch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the differ-<br/>
ent departments of Ship-wrights, Mast<br/>
and Black Makers, Blacksmiths,<br/>
Engineers, Foundry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended by<br/>
Europeans who have had many years<br/>
experience in the different branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best picked<br/>
men from Hongkong and Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular at-<br/>
tention to the Great advantages this<br/>
Dock offers, being in a Port where<br/>
the best Teak and other Timber can<br/>
be had at the cheapest cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in con-<br/>
nection with the Dock to insure dis-<br/>
patch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in height<br/>
and can be taken out or shifted with-<br/>
out cutting or causing any expense to<br/>
ships having to get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared to<br/>
give estimates or enter into Contracts<br/>
for the repairing of Wooden or Iron<br/>
Ships; or the Building of New Ships,<br/>
Steam Boats, etc. or any kind of work<br/>
connected with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may lay<br/>
at the Company's Buoy's or Wharf free<br/>
of charge until ordered to remove by<br/>
the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leaving<br/>
the Dock must approve and sign<br/>
there-—Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting the<br/>
docking to be addressed until further<br/>
notice to the undersigned by whom all<br/>
Bills will be signed and collected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN BUSH
Managing Director.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-10-14_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having had for<br/>
many years experiences in Europe as<br/>
Mill-wright, and Engineer as well as<br/>
Surveyor, and Valuer of Machinery,<br/>
Contractor for the Erection and repair-<br/>
ing of<br/>
  Marine and Stationary Engines.<br/>
  Boilers of every description.<br/>
  Sugar Mills and Gearing.<br/>
  Hydro Extractors for drying sugar.<br/>
  Rice Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Saw Mills & Machinery.<br/>
  Oil Mills & Presses.<br/>
  Hydraulic Presses.<br/>
  Rolling Mills for Silver, Copper
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and Lead.<br/>
  Iron Bridges.<br/>
  Swing Cranes for Wharfs.<br/>
  Water Wheels.<br/>
  Mill Gearing.<br/>
  Fitting wood Cogs in Wheel.<br/>
  Patterns for Bernal and Spar wheels.<br/>
  Contrifugal and other Pumps for<br/>
  Land Irrigation. &c. &c. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
begs to notify all Steam Ship, Rice,<br/>
and Sugar Mill Owners and the Public<br/>
in General. that he is now ready to<br/>
Execute all orders in connection with<br/>
the above, and can be consulted at any<br/>
time between the Hours of 10 A. M.<br/>
and 4 P. M. at the Bangkok Dock<br/>
Company's New Dock, at Koh Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHARLES HOWARTH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 18th Sept. 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Holding Certificates as passed<br/>
Engineer and Mill-wright from the<br/>
British Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform the<br/>
public that he has recently purchased all the<br/>
presses and type, together with all the type-<br/>
casting and book-binding apparatus formerly<br/>
belonging to the Am. Baptist Mission in<br/>
this city; and having thus reinforced his or-<br/>
iginal Printing establishment with a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to perform a<br/>
much greater amount of printing for the<br/>
Mission and for this business community,<br/>
and to fulfil the desires of his patrons with<br/>
more promptness and certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok Sept 12th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-09-16_8_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice is hereby given that<br/>
the editor of the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endar, issued for six consecu-<br/>
tive years from the Printing<br/>
Office of the Am. Missionary<br/>
Association in this city, fully<br/>
intends to continue the public-<br/>
ation of the work, and hopes<br/>
to show improvements in the<br/>
next issue as he has ever aim-<br/>
ed to improve upon successive<br/>
numbers from the beginning.<br/>
He hereby respectively solicits<br/>
the continued support of all his<br/>
former patrons with their usual<br/>
liberality, at the least, and with<br/>
more if their business at the<br/>
beginning of the next year<br/>
shall revive and flourish.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oriental Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BOWLING ALLEYS AND
BILLIARD SALOONS.
THE NEWEST
Established Hotel
in Bangkok.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
Proprietors.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would here-<br/>
by inform the public that he<br/>
has a free daily post boat con-<br/>
nected with the printing office<br/>
of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles above<br/>
the centre of foreign business,<br/>
is virtually brought to the<br/>
doors of all the Consulates<br/>
and foreign merchants, at least<br/>
once a day, (Sunday's except-<br/>
ed) and twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port. The<br/>
regular daily boat is dispatch-<br/>
ed from the office about 9 A. M.<br/>
and the occasional boat at 1<br/>
P. M. The post boy will call<br/>
at each of the Consulates, and<br/>
at the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for letters,<br/>
or other business for the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers, can<br/>
be left in charge of W. H.<br/>
Hamilton Esqr. at Messer Vir-<br/>
gin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-02-01_7_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper Flat,
near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM LUANG
WONGSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Klawng  Bang Luang.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book and smaller<br/>
Job Printing, in the European and<br/>
Siamese Languages, will here be<br/>
promptly and neatly executed, and<br/>
at as moderate prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connected<br/>
with the Office, where Job work<br/>
in this Department will be quickly<br/>
and carefully performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a supply<br/>
of Boat Notes, Manifests, Blank<br/>
Books, Copy Books, Elementary<br/>
Books in English and Siamese,<br/>
Siamese Laws, Siamese History,<br/>
Siamese Grammar, Journal of the<br/>
Siamese embassy to London, Geog-<br/>
raphy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese &c. &.c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully soli-<br/>
cits the public patronage. And he<br/>
hereby engages that his charges<br/>
shall be is most moderate as in any<br/>
other Printing Office supported by <br/>
as small a Foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of transiating, will<br/>
also be performed by him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ROBINSON & CO.,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHOLESALE AND FAMILY
WAREHOUSEMEN,
Ale, Wine, and Spirit Merchants,
IMPORTERS OF EVERY VARIETY
OF EUROPEAN GOODS,
No, 1 Raffles Place, Singapore.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robinson & Co.'s Millinery Show<br/>
Rooms (upstairs) are stocked with the most<br/>
fashionable Goods, selected by their agents<br/>
in London and Paris and forwarded per<br/>
overland mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_10_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Two men, both cowards, made in a narrow<br/>
way, neither was disposed to turn out of the<br/>
road. "Give me the road," said one, in<br/>
braggart voice, "and if you don't, I'll do for<br/>
you what I did for the man who refused it<br/>
to me, yesterday," The other [....]<br/>
aside in terror, and when he of the braggart<br/>
voice had gone by; asked him, timidly,<br/>
"What did you do, Sir, to the man who<br/>
refused you the road yesterday, and would<br/>
not get out of your way!" "Why, said<br/>
the other, "I let them keep the road, and<br/>
got out of his way."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_10_4 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="15" valign="bottom" class="r1d1">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST NOV 1ST 1865</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r37">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Siam. Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r72">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Mc. Kenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Hampton Court</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Crawford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">376</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Omar Pasha</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01">Black</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01">370</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Prosperity</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Andrews</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r73">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">A. Patronella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Voerendyte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Sourabaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1c3">
        <p class="r01"><b>FOREIGN SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Aladus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">813</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">Popp</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Binten G. Timore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Dutch<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">110</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Prussian do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chantaloon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hong Tay Gunn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sepr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Dutch Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Chin Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Praw</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">98</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Javanese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">British steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hartlepool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co.Limitied</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Omar Pasha</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Black</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1c4">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r1c3">
        <p class="r01"><b>SIAMESE SHIPPING IN PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r01"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r01">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Cruizer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Garnier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barkintine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">573</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwold &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Millington</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh So</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Illus. Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Eames</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Kim Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Morning Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Augt.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Siamese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Koon Lit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">133</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">St. Paul</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Tik Chi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r01">193</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Poop</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r01">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r01">........</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
