---
linkTitle: 'August 2nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 2nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 2nd'
date: 2025-12-08T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 53
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, August 2nd, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 30.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AMERICA, 2ND JUNE.—Bodies of arm-<br/>
ed Fenians crossed Niagara, and captured<br/>
Fort Erie, engaging Canadian Volunteers.<br/>
Two Regiments of Regulars are moving<br/>
against Fenians, whose retreat is cut off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 4TH JUNE.—Prussia, Austria<br/>
and Italy assented to Conference, but<br/>
without suspending armaments or binding<br/>
themselves to results.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Thursday the Prussians disposed<br/>
the Holstein Estates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This evening the Austrian Ambassador<br/>
has been recalled from Berlin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Diplomatic relations terminated be-<br/>
tween Austria and Prussia. Prussian<br/>
troops have occupied the Hanoverian<br/>
and Saxon capitals and Hanoverian troops<br/>
have effected a junction with the Austrian<br/>
Army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
15TH.—Fenian raiders on Canada de-<br/>
feated. Johnston issued a proclamation<br/>
against Fenians. Federal Authorities<br/>
have arrested Roberts and Sweeney, with<br/>
four hundred men. Canadian troops<br/>
are rapidly concentrating on the fron-<br/>
tier. Prussia receded from Confedera-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
16TH JUNE.—The Ministry have ten-<br/>
dered their resignation to Her Majesty.<br/>
The Ministerial defeat is causing uneasi-<br/>
ness in the city. Prussia and Italy have<br/>
formally declared war against Austria.<br/>
Communication with seat of war inter-<br/>
rupted. An engagement has taken place<br/>
before Frankfort between Hessians and<br/>
Prussians, in which the advantage was<br/>
gained by the latter, the Fourth Darms-<br/>
tadt Regiment being nearly annihilated<br/>
by the Prussians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
18TH.—The Bombay Mail arrived at<br/>
Suez. Prussians entered Saxony on three<br/>
sides and advanced within a few hours'<br/>
march of Dresden. Prussians now occu-<br/>
py Saxony, Hesse and Hanover. Saxon<br/>
Army withdrawn into Bohemia and joined<br/>
Austria. The Prussians have entered<br/>
Hanover and Saxony. The Austrians<br/>
and South Germany are opposing them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
19TH.—Government in minority of el-<br/>
even on Lord Dunkellin's motion for<br/>
substitution of rateable value for Fran-<br/>
chise Bill instead of rent. Government<br/>
has been defeated on an amendment to<br/>
Clauses of the Reform Bill by majority<br/>
of 316 to 304. Prussia and Italy have<br/>
declared war against Austria. Prussians<br/>
occupied Hanover, Dresden, Hesse Cas-<br/>
sel. Hostilities have commenced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
20TH.—Ministry resigned in conse-<br/>
quence of the defeat on Borough Fran-<br/>
chise Bill. The Queen at Balmoral. Par-<br/>
liament.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
liament has been adjourned till Monday.<br/>
Exchange on Calcutta and Madras, 1s.<br/>
10½d. on Bombay, 1s. 10½d. ; minimum<br/>
tender in full. Funds weaker. The posi-<br/>
tion of the Ministry and possible dissolu-<br/>
tion of Parliament, are the principal<br/>
causes of the anxiety. Consols, 85¼ to 86.<br/>
The Austrian Army has crossed the Sile-<br/>
sian Frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussians raising earth-works before<br/>
Dresden. Postal traffic stopped between<br/>
Italy and Venetia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
21st.—-Sixty thousand Federal troops<br/>
are now concentrated at Frankfort. The<br/>
King of Italy has issued a manifesto and<br/>
has left for the Italian Camp at Carignan<br/>
(?). The Italians have crossed the Mincio.<br/>
A great battle fought yesterday before<br/>
Verona; the Italians were repulsed with<br/>
heavy loss. The Prussians have entered<br/>
Bohemia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
22nd.—-Probability of immediate dis-<br/>
solution of Parliament. Both Houses<br/>
meet again on the 27th. Slight improve-<br/>
ment in funds. The Austrian troops have<br/>
entered Silesia. The Prussians are sur-<br/>
rounding the Hanoverian Army. The<br/>
Prussians have occupied the whole of<br/>
Saxony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
23rd.—-At a Meeting of the Agra and<br/>
Masterman's Bank the Shareholders a-<br/>
greed to a voluntary liquidation. Los-<br/>
ses one million.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
25th.-—Consols, 85⅜ to 86½. Sir Charles<br/>
Price Company Bank suspend (?). Ita-<br/>
lian Army crossed the Mincio; great bat-<br/>
tle before Verona. Austrians repulsed<br/>
both wings of the Italians. Prince Ama-<br/>
deus and General Cerali wounded. It is<br/>
reported that the Italian army recrossed<br/>
Mincio. Prussians repulsed in invading<br/>
Gallicia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
26th.—-The Queen has accepted resig-<br/>
nation of Ministry. Garibaldi repulsed<br/>
Austrians in Tyrol. Another insurrection<br/>
in Madrid suppressed after six hours'<br/>
fighting. Italians recrossed the Mincio<br/>
after the battle at Verona. In the after-<br/>
noon Italians recrossed the Po. A Military<br/>
revolt at Madrid and Gerona has been<br/>
promptly suppressed. A battle has been<br/>
fought in Bohemia, near Neustadt, in<br/>
which the Artillery and Cavalry were<br/>
engaged.—-At 6 in the evening the Prus-<br/>
sians were in full retreat. [Above partly<br/>
unintelligible.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
27th.—-The Queen sent for Lord Derby<br/>
who consents to form a Ministry. Fair<br/>
Dholleras, 9d. Bengal Cotton, 6½d. Fair<br/>
Western (Madras) Cotton, 9d. Consols,<br/>
86¾ to 87¼. Rumoured engagement be-<br/>
tween Austrians and Prussians. Lord<br/>
Derby has been summoned to Windsor.<br/>
Lord Stanley has been appointed Minis-<br/>
ter of Foreign Affairs. Accounts received<br/>
concerning the Hanoverian Army are<br/>
conflicting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JUNE 28th.-—Lord Derby has not yet<br/>
formed a new Ministry. There has been<br/>
a second battle in Bohemia. The Prus-<br/>
sians were defeated with great loss and<br/>
retreated leaving their dead and wound-<br/>
ed. An Armistice has been refused by<br/>
the Austrians. Discount 10, unaltered.<br/>
Cotton quiet, occasionally in favor of<br/>
buyers, not quotable lower. Sale 8,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JUNE 29th.—-Another battle in Bohe-<br/>
mia. Prussians victorious. Hanoverian<br/>
Army surrendered to Prussians. Shirt-<br/>
ings 12s. 3d. Mule Twist 20s.—-quiet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, JULY 4TH.—-The Oriental<br/>
Mercantile and Bank of Hindustan have<br/>
announced that after December,—their<br/>
Branches will not buy or sell bills exceed-<br/>
ing four months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, JULY 5TH.—The MONITEUR<br/>
announces Peace. Cotton excited. Bank<br/>
rate 10 per cent. Austria ceded Venetia<br/>
-—accepted mediation of Napoleon to<br/>
conclude peace. Napoleon sent com-<br/>
munications to Prussia and Italy to obtain<br/>
armistice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Bombay Telegram of 2nd duly [?]<br/>
presents O. B. C. shares at 20 premium;<br/>
eager buyers. Mercantile 7 premium.<br/>
Terrible outbreak of Cholera at Kursool.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.-—A letter written by the Em-<br/>
peror to his Foreign Minister, in refer-<br/>
ence to the proposed Congress and the<br/>
German conflict, has been read to the<br/>
Corps Legislatif. It is pretty clearly in-<br/>
timated that, in case of the "map of<br/>
Europe being modified," France will<br/>
look to have the Rhenish provinces-—al-<br/>
ways supposing, of course, that they<br/>
demand annexation "by votes freely ex-<br/>
pressed." A correspondent states that<br/>
France is prepared to put 600,000 men<br/>
in the field in a fortnight. Precautions<br/>
are being taken against cholera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GERMAN STATES.—-The Federal<br/>
Diet adopted the Austrian motion for<br/>
mobilizing the Federal army by nine<br/>
votes to six, the larger States being all<br/>
in favour of it. The Prussian represen-<br/>
tative declared the Federal pact to be<br/>
dissolved, and withdrew from the assem-<br/>
bly. The States who assented have been<br/>
warned that Prussia will consider their<br/>
votes equivalent to a declaration of war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.-—News has been received of a<br/>
complete victory gained over the Emir<br/>
of Bokhara on the 8th May by General<br/>
Romanowsky. The Czarewitch arrived<br/>
at Copenhagen on the 13th.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES.-—It is said<br/>
that England, France, and Russia are<br/>
willing to acknowledge Prince Charles of<br/>
Hohenzollern.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PORTUGAL.—-It is said that the King<br/>
and Queen have had a narrow escape of<br/>
being poisoned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.—-A body of<br/>
Fenians crossed the Niagara River and<br/>
took possession of a village called Fort<br/>
Erie. The Canadian Volunteers were<br/>
unsuccessful in attacking them, but reg-<br/>
ular troops coming up the Fenians were<br/>
routed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MEXICO.—-The Emperor Maximilian<br/>
has declared his intention to abdicate<br/>
unless France affords him financial assis-<br/>
tance.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
British North America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer that left New York on<br/>
the 2nd instant brought intelligence that<br/>
a body of Fenians, under Colonel O'Neill,<br/>
variously estimated at from 500 to 2,000<br/>
strong, crossed Niagara river on the night<br/>
of the 29th May, and took possession of<br/>
Fort Erie, a small and undefended village,<br/>
three miles from Buffalo, and threw up<br/>
breastworks to await reinforcements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have since had advices direct from<br/>
Quebec to the same date, which state<br/>
that on receipt of the intelligence two<br/>
volunteer infantry corps left Montreal to<br/>
meet the enemy, and the following des<br/>
patch was put on board the steamer when<br/>
off Panther Point:—"The volunteers af<br/>
ter attacking the enemy this morning<br/>
(June 2) near Ridgway were compelled<br/>
to retire, being outnumbered. Colonel<br/>
Peacock, in the meantime, had moved<br/>
his force (regulars) to a point between<br/>
the enemy and the river. He then eng<br/>
aged them at the point of the bayonet,<br/>
and all who reached the river took to<br/>
the boats, but the United States author<br/>
ities would not allow them to land on<br/>
the United States frontier, and it is be<br/>
lieved that most of them have surrender<br/>
ed to our forces: The Fenians are con<br/>
centrating at Malone and St. Alban's,<br/>
but ample preparations have been made<br/>
to deal with them should they cross the<br/>
border. The greatest enthusiasm pre<br/>
vails amongst our volunteers, who are<br/>
hourly going to the front.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another account is—Fenians defeated,<br/>
and surrounded by 16th and 47th Re<br/>
giments and volunteers. It is stated that<br/>
O'Neill, the Fenian leader, had been shot.<br/>
It is reported that 37 men and three<br/>
officers of the Toronto 10th Royals were<br/>
killed in the action in which the Fenians<br/>
were defeated. The Fenians fought<br/>
desperately. One thousand men, under<br/>
Colonel Lowry, left Toronto to-day<br/>
(the 2nd). The volunteers are pouring<br/>
in from the country. Medical men have<br/>
gone from Montreal to the scene of<br/>
action.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Straits' Transfer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In confirmation of the statement made<br/>
in our last, we now have to announce that<br/>
the Bill was read a first time on the 13th<br/>
inst. We give the following extract<br/>
from a Treasury letter, dated 2nd June:<br/>
—“In order to avoid further delay, my<br/>
lords considered it best that the fixed con-<br/>
tribution of £56,500 a year should be<br/>
adopted for the first five years; and, on<br/>
this understanding, they assent to the in-<br/>
troduction of the Bill into Parliament for<br/>
the transfer of these Settlements. As<br/>
regards that portion of your letter which<br/>
refers to barrack accommodation for any<br/>
troops stationed in the Settlements for<br/>
Imperial purposes, my lords agree that<br/>
no charge, on this account, ought to fall<br/>
upon the Settlements. The only condi-<br/>
tion they have to make upon the subject<br/>
is, that after sufficient barrack and hos-<br/>
pital accommodation has been provided<br/>
at the expense of the Settlements for<br/>
the troops stationed there for local pur-<br/>
poses, any existing barracks or hospitals<br/>
which may be in excess of such accommo-<br/>
dation, and which may be required by<br/>
the War Department, shall be handed<br/>
over to that department free of any<br/>
charge, to be maintained at the Imperial<br/>
expense during their occupation thereof.<br/>
As regards the public debt of the Settle-<br/>
ments, my lords conclude that the arran-<br/>
gement with the Indian Government, as<br/>
explained in the Colonial Office letter of<br/>
the 24th March, 1865, is to be carried<br/>
out; that, as regards the convict expen-<br/>
diture, the whole of it from the date of<br/>
transfer will be repaid by the Indian<br/>
Government and that the notice for the<br/>
removal of the penal establishment with-<br/>
in three years of the date of such notice<br/>
will be given not later than the date of<br/>
transfer, which should take place, as<br/>
recommended in the 66th paragraph of<br/>
Sir Hercules Robinson's Report upon the<br/>
Settlements, at the close of the colonial<br/>
financial year, viz., 31st December 1866<br/>
or 1867, according as the necessary ar-<br/>
rangements can be completed. As re-<br/>
gards the civil establishment to be sanc-<br/>
tioned for the Settlements, my lords will<br/>
be prepared to approve of an establish-<br/>
ment on the basis of that suggested by<br/>
Sir H. Robinson, in Enclosure No. 9 of<br/>
his report, subject to such modification<br/>
as experience may have since dictated, or<br/>
which any change as regards the muni-<br/>
cipalities of the Settlements may here-<br/>
after render necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FIVE BATTLES in one week, and<br/>
Austria victorious in the three most im-<br/>
tant—-such is the news brought by<br/>
telegraph so far as it is intelligible.<br/>
The first conflict is telegraphed on 19th<br/>
June, when Prussia attacked the Darm-<br/>
stadt Hessians who held the federal<br/>
capital of Frankfort, and nearly anni-<br/>
hilated a regiment. One-third of the<br/>
people of Hesse Darmstadt are Roman<br/>
Catholics and the rest Lutherans or<br/>
Calvinists. Thus at the outset a Prot-<br/>
estant German Army, the head of<br/>
which is the husband of our Princess<br/>
Royal, slaughtered the Protestant Ger-<br/>
man troops of a family into which our<br/>
Princess Alice is married. Advancing<br/>
on the west into Bohemia the Pruss-<br/>
ians have been twice beaten, once at<br/>
Neustadt on the 26th, and again on<br/>
the 28th, with great loss. Besides<br/>
this on the east, they were checked<br/>
in invading Galicia. In the south,<br/>
the Italians' ardent patriotism seem to<br/>
have thrown them on the Quadrilateral<br/>
at Verona to meet only the defeat<br/>
so disheartening that they retreated<br/>
not only the Mineio but the Po. Wheth-<br/>
er Garibaldi repulsed the Austrians<br/>
in the Tyrol, as is probable, or was<br/>
repulsed as another telegram says, re-<br/>
mains to be seen. Meanwhile Aus-<br/>
tria is master of the situation. Russia<br/>
has abstained from threatening her Pol-<br/>
ish frontier, the war is as popular<br/>
with the many races who are her sub-<br/>
jects as it is detested by Prussia, and<br/>
that Hungarian sprung from the peo-<br/>
ple, Field Marshal Benedek, has not<br/>
yet met his rival. If Austria pushes<br/>
her victories, as she seems inclined to<br/>
do by refusing an armistice after the<br/>
second great battle, Prussia will rise<br/>
as one man, Italy will only be fired<br/>
by her defeat, and a long and bloody<br/>
contest seems certain.—-FRIEND of<br/>
INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LORD DERBY, by the last news, had<br/>
not formed a ministry or done more than<br/>
assign to his son the Foreign Office, with<br/>
the leadership of the House of Commons<br/>
of course, and he will have such great<br/>
difficulty in getting men from the Con-<br/>
servative ranks that he may be driven to<br/>
a Coalition. In that case the Third Party<br/>
will get scope for their ability, and noth-<br/>
ing is less improbable than that Mr. La-<br/>
ing's services should be made available in<br/>
the Indian Office. He is less a Liberal<br/>
than Lord Stanley, and there is no room<br/>
for his financial abilities in a ministry<br/>
which long ago fixed on Sir Stafford<br/>
Northcote for its Chancellor of the Ex-<br/>
chequer. The mention of Lord Stanley<br/>
in connexion with the Foreign Office, in-<br/>
volves the elevation of Mr. Disraeli to the<br/>
Lords, with a nominal office or the French<br/>
Embassy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE FAMINE, continues its severity in<br/>
Orissa, but the copious rain makes it pro-<br/>
bable that the scarcity will soon disappear<br/>
elsewhere. For Orissa Government has<br/>
advanced £40,000 as capital for the pur-<br/>
chase and sale of rice, which, now that the<br/>
high prices have failed to bring much of<br/>
the supposed hidden store into the mar-<br/>
ket, ought to be sold at a cheaper rate<br/>
than 5 seers a rupee.—-FRIEND of INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ACCORDING TO A RUSSIAN JOURNAL.<br/>
THE object of Russia in extending her<br/>
conquests in Central Asia to the fron-<br/>
tiers of India, is to compel England<br/>
to remain neutral in the war which<br/>
Russia intends sooner or later to wage<br/>
against Turkey.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Russia does not care to command<br/>
the road to India with any ambitious<br/>
idea of wresting their possessions from<br/>
the English for the mere sake of con-<br/>
quest. She will only keep this as a<br/>
reserved argument to force the British<br/>
to retire from the Council Chamber<br/>
of the Sultan; and if she cannot per-<br/>
suade them to join her in the Holy<br/>
War, she can at least insist on their<br/>
remaining passive in the struggle.—-<br/>
FRIEND of INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Beneficence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The beneficence that flowed from the<br/>
American heart during the war of the Re-<br/>
bellion, was not a spasmodic effort, produ-<br/>
ced by the sudden scenes of suffering and<br/>
bloodshed. There was a charitable prin-<br/>
ciple underlying exterior life, which took<br/>
shape in educational plans and various<br/>
other objects. A large number of Ameri-<br/>
can colleges and theological seminaries<br/>
have received princely donations within<br/>
the last two years, when it would be natu-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
rally supposed that every purse would be<br/>
emptied to keep the wolf from the door.<br/>
The application of treasure during the<br/>
rebellion for other objects than those in-<br/>
cident to the war, was of such magnitude<br/>
and spontaneous growth, that its equal can-<br/>
not be found in history. During the last<br/>
two years Bowdoin college has received an<br/>
endowment of $72,000; Dartmouth of $47,<br/>
000; Middlebury, $10,000; Williams, $25,<br/>
000; Amherst, over $100,000; Trinity, $100,<br/>
000; Yale, $450,000; Hamilton, over $100,<br/>
000; Rutgers, $130,000; Princeton, $130,<br/>
000; Andover, Theological Seminary, $70,<br/>
000; New-York University, $60,000; Au-<br/>
burn Theological Seminary at Chicago,<br/>
$80,000; besides various other donations of<br/>
scarcely less amount. Denominational be-<br/>
neficence has not been contracted by the<br/>
war; on the contrary it seems to have gain-<br/>
ed greater power. As an evidence of it, the<br/>
Methodist Episcopal Church, which this<br/>
year celebrates its centennial jubilee, pro-<br/>
poses to raise an extraordinary fund of two<br/>
million of dollars, one-fourth of which has<br/>
already been pledged by one man—Daniel<br/>
Drew of New York. The probability is<br/>
that the close of the centenary year will<br/>
find the Methodist treasury containing<br/>
nearly three millions than two millions of<br/>
dollars.—Lo, Co, News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The True Standard of Dress.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are always excessive when we sacri-<br/>
fice the higher beauty to attain the lower<br/>
one. A woman who will sacrifice domes-<br/>
tic affection, conscience, self-respect, honor,<br/>
to love of dress, we all agree, loves dress<br/>
too much. She loses the true and higher<br/>
beauty of womanhood for the lower beauty<br/>
of gems and flowers and colors. A girl<br/>
who sacrifices to dress all her time all her<br/>
strength, all her money, to the neglect of<br/>
the claims of others on her helpfulness, is<br/>
sacrificing the higher to the lower beauty.<br/>
Her fault is not the love of beauty, but lov-<br/>
ing the wrong and inferior kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In fine, girls, you may try yourselves by<br/>
this standard. You love dress too much<br/>
when you care more for you outward ador-<br/>
nings than for your inward dispositions,<br/>
when it afflicts you more to have torn your<br/>
dress than to have lost your tempers, when<br/>
you are more troubled by an ill-fitting gown<br/>
than by a neglected duty,—when you are<br/>
less concerned at having made an unjust<br/>
comment, or spread a scandalous report,<br/>
than at having worn a PAGAN bonner,—<br/>
when you are less troubled at the thought<br/>
of being found at the last great feast with-<br/>
out the wedding garment, than at being<br/>
found at the party to-night in the fashion<br/>
of last year. No Christian woman, as I<br/>
view it, ought to give such attention to her<br/>
dress as to allow it to take up ALL of three<br/>
very important things, viz: ALL her time,<br/>
ALL her strength, ALL her money. Who-<br/>
ever does this lives not the Christian, but<br/>
the Pagan life,—worships not at the Chris-<br/>
tian's altar of our Lord Jesus, but at the<br/>
shrine of the lower Venus of Corinth and<br/>
Rome. Mrs. STOWE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Strength of Materials.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a remarkable fact that one of the<br/>
most abundant materials in natural iron-<br/>
is the strongest of all known substances.<br/>
Made into the best steel, a rod one-fourth<br/>
of an inch in diameter will sustain 9,000<br/>
lbs. before breaking: soft steel, 7,000 lbs.;<br/>
iron wire, 6,000; bar iron, 4,000; inferior<br/>
bar iron, 2,000; cast iron 1,000 to 3,000;<br/>
copper wire, 1,000; silver, 2,000; gold, 2,000;<br/>
tin, 160; cast zinc, 160; sheet zinc, 1,000;<br/>
cast lead, 50; milled lead, 200.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of wood, oak and locust the same size,<br/>
will hold 1,200 pounds; tough ash, 1,000;<br/>
elm, 800; beech, cedar, white oak, pitch<br/>
pine, 700; chestnut and soft maple, 650; pop-<br/>
lar, 400. Wood, which will bear a heavy<br/>
weight for a minute or two, will break with<br/>
two-thirds the force acting a long time.<br/>
A rod of iron is about ten times as strong<br/>
as a hemp cord. A rope, an inch in diam-<br/>
eter, will bear about two and a half tons,<br/>
but in practice it is not safe to subject it<br/>
to a strain of more than about one ton.<br/>
Half an inch in diameter the strength will<br/>
be one quarter as much: a quarter of an<br/>
inch, one-sixteenth as much, and so on.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colored People in Boston.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Boston Journal says the colored<br/>
population of that city numbers between<br/>
2,500 and 3,000, and are generally speak-<br/>
ing, an industrious, intelligent, frugal<br/>
and quietly disposed class of people—<br/>
much more so than they have credit for.<br/>
There are among them a large number<br/>
of mechanics; most of them, however,<br/>
are laboring men. A large number are<br/>
quite wealthy, owning property averaging<br/>
from $500 to $50,000.—-They support<br/>
five churches—-three Methodist and two<br/>
Baptist—-four of which are upheld en-<br/>
tirely by themselves, and one has been<br/>
assisted somewhat by contributions out-<br/>
side of their own organization. It is<br/>
much to their credit that there are but<br/>
few paupers among them. As a class,<br/>
with the disadvantage of a deep-seated,<br/>
though fast disappearing prejudice a-<br/>
gainst them, they have certainly won for<br/>
themselves the respect of the community<br/>
in which they live. Their children at-<br/>
tend our public schools, and have equal<br/>
privileges with the children of their white<br/>
neighbors, and several of them have been<br/>
recipients at different times of the Fram-<br/>
klin and City Medals for good scholarship.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
August 2nd 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The European war
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our latest telegram of July 5th<br/>
looks somewhat like a morning star<br/>
of hope of a pleasant day after a dark<br/>
night of terrible storm. But we have<br/>
had of late so many false stars that<br/>
have been suddenly blotted out as<br/>
morp meteors, that we cannot but feel<br/>
somewhat distrustful of this sign of<br/>
the times. Still we will hope, though<br/>
it be with trembling, that the myriad<br/>
of swords that had leaped from their<br/>
scabbards have all returned to their<br/>
quiet homes, and that all the mightily<br/>
empowered engines of war, hurling thou-<br/>
sands into eternity, have been hushed<br/>
to peace. One thing appear to as<br/>
pretty certain, and that is, that Prussia<br/>
has lost her arrogant prestige and will<br/>
no more be feared by her German<br/>
neighbors as she has been. And<br/>
another seems quite probable, which<br/>
is that all the German states, it may be<br/>
with Prussia herself included, are now<br/>
about forming a great Republic or a<br/>
limited Monarchy that shall have<br/>
strength and stability enough to bo-<br/>
come second to no other power in<br/>
preserving the peace of Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those many petty independent<br/>
States, having among them more than<br/>
a dozen crowned heads, are necessari-<br/>
ly composed of too inflammable ma-<br/>
terials to allow any rational hope of<br/>
peace among themselves while consti-<br/>
tuted as they hitherto have been. We<br/>
will frankly say, that we fervently hope<br/>
to hear that negociations are in pro-<br/>
gress for the thorough remodelling of<br/>
those States and for their ultimate co-<br/>
alescence into one grand gov-<br/>
ernment for developing the principles<br/>
of liberty and freedom in concert with<br/>
the spirit of the age in which we live,<br/>
and thus become a powerful central<br/>
bulwark of Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 5.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As promised in our last issue, we<br/>
come now to have another pleasant<br/>
interview with our readers on the top<br/>
of P'rá Nákwun-kiree the sacred city<br/>
on a mount. This name has been<br/>
given to it since the royal palace on<br/>
its summit was erected. Prior to this<br/>
it was denominated Maha Sawan; lit-<br/>
erally the great heaven. Why it ever<br/>
received such a name we cannot tell.<br/>
There is nothing in its size, certainly,<br/>
that would render it appropriate; for<br/>
it is scarcely 400 feet high, and pro-<br/>
bably less than two miles in circum-<br/>
ference at its lowest base. You will<br/>
observe that its length is in the direc-<br/>
tion of N. W. and S. E. and that it<br/>
has 3 prinicipal peaks about of equal<br/>
hight. The one at the S. E. extremity<br/>
is honored with the distinguishing name<br/>
SOW P'RÁ NAWN—-mount of a loung-<br/>
ing god, because at its foot is a temple in<br/>
which is enshrined an immense image<br/>
of Buddh in a reclining posture. The<br/>
peak most western is the site of His<br/>
Majesty's mountain palace. The<br/>
middle peak has been set apart for a<br/>
large pagoda the foundation of which<br/>
has been laid and carried up 8 or 10<br/>
feet. There are several peaks, all oc-<br/>
cupied by various brick works inten-<br/>
ded to add beauty and dignity to the<br/>
palace as satellites.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The shrubbery on the mount is now<br/>
so thick and its foliage so dense as al-<br/>
most to hide entirely all the craggy<br/>
rocks of which the mount is mainly<br/>
composed. We once, about 7 years<br/>
since, had a view of those rocks when<br/>
the mount had but recently been<br/>
cleared of most of its primitive shrub-<br/>
bery for the purpose of preparing it<br/>
for the royal palace. We could not<br/>
but mourn over the desolation which<br/>
the work, then but commencing, made<br/>
over the wild magnificence of nature.<br/>
But now a new growth of shrubbery<br/>
has sprung up with a good degree of<br/>
the original wildness, bearing a foliage<br/>
the most luxuriant and beautiful.<br/>
When you look closely among them<br/>
and see the great predominance of<br/>
lime stone rocks, lying edgewise in the<br/>
greatest disorder, with their myriads of<br/>
crags and spires, you can but wonder<br/>
how the vegetation can find soil en-<br/>
ough to flourish as it does. But the<br/>
truth is, the climate of Siam is no won-<br/>
derfully favorable to vegetable life that<br/>
many shrubs, and even trees of con-<br/>
siderable size, will grow with scarcely<br/>
a sprinkling of soil. The pad tree, for<br/>
example, will commence life on the<br/>
naked walls of a brick house more<br/>
than 30 feet from the ground, shoot-<br/>
ing its roots down the sides of the<br/>
wall, entering into every crevice, until<br/>
they reach the ground, and then throw<br/>
the building down by their growth<br/>
among the cracks. Hence it becomes<br/>
necessary that a strict watch always<br/>
be kept of the seedlings of the poâ<br/>
that they be extirpated from walls<br/>
and roofs of buildings ere it becomes<br/>
impossible to eradicate them without<br/>
destroying the building on which they<br/>
have taken root. Of such air plants,<br/>
as we may call them, there are many<br/>
kinds in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wherever there is any vacancy of<br/>
shrubbery on the mount there the wild<br/>
lady slipper occupies, and the pink<br/>
and purple and white four o’clocks and<br/>
morning glories and many other flow-<br/>
ering annuals furnish a pleasing va-<br/>
riety. The lan tom, mentioned in a<br/>
preceding article, abounds and ever im-<br/>
parts by her yellowish white cup flowers<br/>
a very pleasant fragrance to the air.<br/>
—The prickly pear of many varieties<br/>
is perfectly at home here. One of the<br/>
species becomes a tree from 15 to 20<br/>
feet high with a trunk from 6 to 10 in-<br/>
ches in diameter. The old trees that<br/>
had become large were mostly cut down<br/>
years ago, and consequently the new<br/>
growth is now comparatively small.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We cannot attempt a minute de-<br/>
scription of any of the thirty or more<br/>
buildings on the mount, much less<br/>
of the palace itself into which we have<br/>
never entered. This is not a large<br/>
building as one might anticipate. It is<br/>
we should judge not far from 80 by<br/>
40 feet exclusive of the many attach-<br/>
ments to it. To form a foundation<br/>
sufficiently ample for it, walls wery built<br/>
up by the sides of the cliff from 20 to<br/>
50 feet with broken lime stone blasted<br/>
from the rocks, and laid roughly to-<br/>
gether like a common stone fence, and<br/>
then the crevices all filled with lime<br/>
mortar. The walls of the palace are<br/>
two stories high built of brick, finished<br/>
externally with white stucco, and neatly<br/>
polished. The roof of the palace is<br/>
covered with earthen tiles imported<br/>
from China, which form narrow furrows<br/>
and ridges from eve to ridge. The win-<br/>
dows, as usual in Siam, have no glass,<br/>
being closed by wooden shutters. In or-<br/>
der to reach the basement story you<br/>
have to ascend two flights of stone steps<br/>
30 or 40 feet long with a heavy railing of<br/>
white stucco work with green earthen<br/>
balusters or rounds. We have the im-<br/>
pression that while the internal aspect<br/>
of the palace must comport with the<br/>
good taste of what we see of it exter-<br/>
nally, it will not nearly equal the rich-<br/>
ness and magnificence of the royal<br/>
palace at the capital; and the rooms<br/>
must necessarily, be much less capa-<br/>
cious, being designed for His Majes-<br/>
ty's accomodation only a dozen days<br/>
in a year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A theatre, which is always an indis-<br/>
pensable accompaniment of a royal<br/>
palace was early built on the mount,<br/>
situated a little down the cliff at the<br/>
N. West end of the palace. It was<br/>
burnt down two years ago by a balloon<br/>
falling on its attap roof while His Ma-<br/>
jesty was holding holidays, on the<br/>
mount. It is now nearly rebuilt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the S. E. end of the palace, on the<br/>
highest part of that peak, you will ob-<br/>
serve and admire a small brick structure<br/>
called Mon-Top. It is a kind of pago-<br/>
da, perhaps 30 feet high exclusive of<br/>
its spire, having four small wings with<br/>
their gable ends looking to the four<br/>
cardinal points of the compass. The<br/>
general form of the Mon-Top is like<br/>
that of the royal funeral canopy for<br/>
kings. At each of the four angles of<br/>
the pagoda there is a tasty light house<br/>
15 feet high, covered with a glass dome.<br/>
All this work is neatly finished with<br/>
white stucco and adorned with tasty<br/>
mouldings of the same material.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In close proximity with the Mon-<br/>
Top at the S. E. you will see a Budd-<br/>
hist brick Chapel not less than 80 by<br/>
40 feet and 13 or 14 feet from its tiled<br/>
floor to the ceiling. This is also neatly<br/>
finished externally with stucco and pa-<br/>
pered internally both walls and ceiling<br/>
with European paper. At one end of<br/>
the hall is a semi-circular platform of<br/>
imitation marble on which we suppose<br/>
the officiating priest sits in a chair when<br/>
he reads the Buddhist homilies. The<br/>
hall seems to be admirably adapted for<br/>
speaking, the slightest voice being con-<br/>
veyed distinctly from end to end.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As you pass out of the S. E. end of<br/>
the Chapel you come immediately to the<br/>
chief light house and observatory which<br/>
stands on 8 brick pillars with four<br/>
most graceful arches, and is finished<br/>
like all the buildings previously men-<br/>
tioned. You ascend into the upper<br/>
story by spiral steps with an iron rail-<br/>
ing. It is probably 20 feet high and<br/>
covered with a glass dome.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Looking to the S. E. over a valley<br/>
you will notice a very conspicuous<br/>
pagoda on the K'óse-p'ra-no[?]en peak,<br/>
and a foot path brick-flagged with a<br/>
white stucco balustrade and earthen<br/>
rounds on the lower side of it all the<br/>
way. The basement story of the pa-<br/>
goda is of brick and the superstructure<br/>
of granite. The pieces of which it is<br/>
composed are some of them very large,<br/>
which must have required more than<br/>
ordinary skill to have lifted up 400<br/>
feet, and fitted them so accurately in<br/>
their places; for they were brought<br/>
from the other side of the gulf, we think,<br/>
or from China already shaped, so that,<br/>
probably, no hammer had to be used in<br/>
adjusting them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But time would fail us to speak thus<br/>
particularly of the many other brick<br/>
and stuccoed buildings on the mount.<br/>
Some of them are salas, some little<br/>
forts forming entire circles with white<br/>
embrasures, some barracks for the<br/>
king's body guard, some for the accom-<br/>
modation of his numerous retinue etc.<br/>
Down in a deep valley on the north side<br/>
there is a new temple made in good<br/>
keeping with the taste of the other<br/>
buildings on the mount. In another<br/>
direction on the south side there are<br/>
some quite interesting caves with an<br/>
entrance by what has every appearance<br/>
of having been the mouth of a volcanic<br/>
crater. These of course have all been<br/>
consecrated to Buddhism and are full<br/>
of idols. There are other caverns in<br/>
the vicinity of the temple of some re-<br/>
pute among Buddhists. But Mount<br/>
Nakawn Kiree is not now and never<br/>
was famous for its caverns. Her sister<br/>
mounts Kadei-it, and Kow Lóóang<br/>
far excel her in this regard, and may<br/>
claim our notice at some future time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would that we could accompany<br/>
this very imperfect description of the<br/>
palace mount by some of the beautiful<br/>
pictures which last Dec. we saw J.<br/>
Thomson Esq. the photographer take<br/>
from many stand points. Then could we<br/>
hope that our dull account of its scenery<br/>
would be read with lively interest.<br/>
We have yet much to say of Petscha-<br/>
buree in regard to the city, the agri-<br/>
culture of the country, and the people,<br/>
which, if the Lord will, we may give<br/>
in future articles.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
Births.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 21st ult. at her residence in<br/>
this city, Mrs. Alabaster, wife of Hen-<br/>
ry Alabaster, Interpreter to the Brit-<br/>
ish Consulate, of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 28th ult., at her residence<br/>
in this city, Mrs. Carden, wife of Rev.<br/>
P. L. Carden, Missionary of the Am.<br/>
Presbyterian Board, of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam. Str. Chow Phya left for<br/>
Singapore this day about noon, having<br/>
been hurried off, as we learn, by ur-<br/>
gent dispatches of government, two<br/>
days earlier than she would otherwise<br/>
have gone, in order that she may sure-<br/>
ly be in time for the next homeward<br/>
bound mail. It is understood that she<br/>
has orders to remain at Singapore un-<br/>
til the next European mail arrives,<br/>
which will prolong her stay at Singa-<br/>
pore two days longer than usual. Hence<br/>
the time intervening her departure and<br/>
next arrival may be expected to be four<br/>
days longer than it has usually been.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
G. W. Virgin Esqr. and family, went<br/>
as passengers on board the Chow Phya<br/>
for a temporary residence at Singapore.<br/>
Mr. Virgin is in feeble health suffer-<br/>
ing from pulmonary disease, and hopes<br/>
that the climate of Singapore and oth-<br/>
er things will better favor his conva-<br/>
lescence than Bangkok. We took<br/>
leave of our friend and countryman<br/>
and former Consul, on board the steam-<br/>
er this morning, with tender sympathy<br/>
for his welfare, hoping and praying<br/>
that he may realize his fond hopes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Virgin, as will be seen by a no-<br/>
tice in this issue, has left his business<br/>
here in the hands of W. H. Hamilton<br/>
Esqr. of this city. We are sorry to<br/>
learn that he is not expected to return<br/>
hither for business even though his<br/>
health should admit of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The House of Virgin & Co. Amer-<br/>
ican, Ship Chandlers, sold at Public<br/>
Auction all the goods belonging to<br/>
their Store on the 14th ult. We<br/>
learn that the goods sold very poorly,<br/>
amounting only to about $4000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bark "Fah Kee," belonging to<br/>
the same firm, was sold to a Chinese<br/>
Importer on the 27th ult. for the sum<br/>
of $3600.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Peace in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As yet Siam appears to be enjoying<br/>
peace with herself, and with all na-<br/>
tions. We hear occasionally of some<br/>
little political squalls, and now and<br/>
then the semblance of distant thunder.<br/>
But this phenomena serves only to<br/>
keep our atmosphere from stagnation.<br/>
We have heard quite recently some<br/>
blustering threats of an interruption of<br/>
peace. But we think it will prove to<br/>
be only a mere vomiting of bile, which<br/>
symptoms, in our humble opinion, are<br/>
most successfully treated by a stomach<br/>
full of luke warm water, and with no<br/>
newspaper nostrums whatever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The editors of Exchange papers<br/>
from Singapore, Penang, Rangoon,<br/>
Maulmain and Singapore, have no-<br/>
ticed with very becoming respect the<br/>
death of His Excellency Phya Montrée<br/>
Suriwongs, and tender their condolence<br/>
to his family, relatives, and govern-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE STEAMER "Chow Phya" arrived<br/>
here on the 28th ulto, bringing dates<br/>
from the continent by letters, and pa-<br/>
pers up to June 28th, from England to<br/>
June 16th, from America to May 20th<br/>
from Shanghai to July 6th, from Hong<br/>
Kong to July 10th, from Rangoon,<br/>
Maulmain and India to July 11th, and<br/>
from Singapore to July 22nd. Tele-<br/>
grams from Europe to July 5th, and<br/>
from America to June 2nd.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to hear that the pros-<br/>
pects of the Telegraph company, which<br/>
is to run a line through the Malay<br/>
Peninsula and join Bangkok with<br/>
British Burmah, are improving day by<br/>
day, and will, we hope shortly be in<br/>
a position to begin the line. The<br/>
Netherlands Indian government have<br/>
approved of it, and will give the scheme<br/>
its utmost support, and it is said that<br/>
private letters from England state that<br/>
the project has met with support in<br/>
high quarters. May future accounts<br/>
confirm this good news!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On going down town last Monday<br/>
we were struck with the empty appear-<br/>
ance, of the river We counted only<br/>
six square rigged vessels, exclusive of<br/>
steamers, from Klaang Bangkok-yai<br/>
down to the Borneo Co's. A few months<br/>
ago the river was crowded, now it is<br/>
nearly as empty as a country lake. Our<br/>
shipping list shows quite a number of<br/>
vessels in port, but when we look for<br/>
them in town we can see nothing like<br/>
the number mentioned in the list. If<br/>
the whole number be at Paknam, or<br/>
outside the bar there must be a good<br/>
fleet below, and business must be<br/>
somewhat brisk in that quarter
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Paknam July 30th 1866.
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor,—In your issue of the 26th<br/>
inst, you have made a mistake in sta-<br/>
ting that I was umpire at the last races<br/>
at Paknam. It was not so, and I wish<br/>
it to be rectified in your next issue.<br/>
By doing so you will oblige yours<br/>
&c. &c. {{< news/indent2 >}} ATKINS DYER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
From the ILLUSTRATED GUIDE for<br/>
the BLACK VALLEY RAILROAD.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
An American Temperance paper.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
STATEMENT OF THE BUSINESS
OF THE
BLACK VALLEY RAILROAD
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(In the U. S.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. It is constantly carrying over<br/>
300,000 persons toward the doom<br/>
that awaits the Common Drunkard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. It carries untold misery and<br/>
wretchedness to more than 1,500,000<br/>
persons, a large proportion of whom are<br/>
women and children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. It carries down to poverty and<br/>
beggary enough to keep over 200,000<br/>
persons in the Alms House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. It carries down to the condition<br/>
of Criminals enough to keep 75,000<br/>
in prison.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. It is carrying toward destruc-<br/>
tion multitudes of brave and noble<br/>
young men in our Army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. It has carried Victory to our<br/>
enemies and Slaughter to our friends<br/>
in several important battles during<br/>
the war, by disqualifying officers and<br/>
men for their duty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
7. It carries essential help to<br/>
traitors in promoting Mobs and Riots.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
8. It has carried down to disgrace,<br/>
poverty and destruction many of the<br/>
most talented men of the country<br/>
from the Bar, the Bench, the Pulpit<br/>
and the Halls of Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
9. It carries more than 30,000 in<br/>
to Eternity annually.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
10. It carries more than 100,000,<br/>
000 of dollars to Destruction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
11. It carries grain enough to the<br/>
Distillery annually to make more than<br/>
5 millions of barrels of flour for the<br/>
poor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reader, will you assist in diffusing in-<br/>
formation about the above Road, so that<br/>
the multitudes of young men and others<br/>
who are invited to occasional excursions<br/>
upon it, may be informed beforehand a-<br/>
bout the country through which it passes<br/>
and in which it terminates.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MOST STARTLING NEWS has seldom reach-<br/>
ed India than that of the dissolution of the<br/>
Russel-Gladstone ministry and at the same<br/>
time the rapid spread of war over Central<br/>
and Southern Europe, following close on<br/>
the most serious commercial panic ever<br/>
experienced and not yet at an end. The<br/>
war we have considered elsewhere. The<br/>
Ministry were defeated by 14 votes on the<br/>
question whether the borough franchise<br/>
should be based on the ratable or rent<br/>
value of houses, by the adoption of the<br/>
former which the Opposition succeeded<br/>
in raising the franchise to £8. As<br/>
the County Franchise Bill had passed, and<br/>
the redistribution of seats on the Scotch<br/>
principle of grouping was so fair, we can-<br/>
not understand why Earl Russel has not<br/>
dissolved Parliament and appealed to the<br/>
country. Nothing could be more unfor-<br/>
tunate than this ministerial crisis—-for<br/>
England, because she will be unable to<br/>
take her proper position during what<br/>
threatens to be the greatest war Europe<br/>
has seen since 1814;—-for India because<br/>
all Indian questions will now be post-<br/>
poned and the India House will be de-<br/>
prived of Lord de Grey and Mr. Stans-<br/>
feld who protested well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Government of India appears to<br/>
have given the most serious consideration<br/>
to the construction of irrigation works<br/>
in all parts of India on an efficient scale.<br/>
With a glimmering of statesman-ship so<br/>
rarely in these days, the dispatch<br/>
expresses an aspiration that this “develop-<br/>
ment” will be no less successful and no<br/>
less worthy of an enlightened Government<br/>
than that made in respect to the means<br/>
of communication by the adoption of the<br/>
policy originated by Lord Dalhousie for<br/>
the construction of Railways."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—THE ENGLISHMAN says that the sick<br/>
and starving are now pouring into Cal-<br/>
cutta in such that Government has sanc-<br/>
tioned the immediate formation of a tem-<br/>
porary hospital in the Chappole Road, and<br/>
the natives are offering subscriptions.<br/>
THE HURKORA learns that Dr. Francis<br/>
has requested the Bengal Government<br/>
to sanction the establishment of a hospi-<br/>
tal in Amherst Street for the treatment<br/>
of destitute natives attacked with cholera<br/>
and dysentery, for such cases are daily in-<br/>
creasing and seriously overcrowding the<br/>
Medical College Hospital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—THE POSTS, according to the LEVANT<br/>
HERALD, is most active in military pre-<br/>
parations. The intended introduction of<br/>
a rule granting long furloughs has been<br/>
put off till next year. The whole of the<br/>
regiments are to be raised to their full<br/>
nominal strength, for which purpose the<br/>
enrolled conscripts of 1863 and 1864 have<br/>
been summoned to the depots and in ad-<br/>
dition 12,000 orders of the 1st and 2nd<br/>
corps d’armee have been called out. An-<br/>
other great fire has happened in Constan-<br/>
tinople and burned down exactly the mass<br/>
of buildings spared by the great fire of<br/>
September last. This site was necessary<br/>
for the complete carrying out of the<br/>
scheme of reconstruction, which will<br/>
change the whole face of the capital be-<br/>
tween the Ports and the Golden Horn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—THE AMERICAN portion of the Over-<br/>
land Russian telegraph is being pushed<br/>
on so vigorously that communication is<br/>
now complete between Washington city<br/>
and Victoria, Vancouver, a distance of<br/>
7500 miles. On April 25 congratulatory<br/>
messages were exchanged between the au-<br/>
thorities of the two cities. About 24<br/>
hours were required for the transmission<br/>
of the message and the return of the an-<br/>
swer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—THE HEAT has been so severe at Ma-<br/>
drass as to kill the flying foxes in large<br/>
numbers. During the day they drop dead<br/>
from the trees, and are greedily seized by<br/>
the people of the lower castes and bur-<br/>
ried.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—THE SINDIAN asserts that a fleet of<br/>
steamers is now in the course of construc-<br/>
tion to ply direct between Kurrachee, A-<br/>
den and Suez. The trips will be bi-month-<br/>
ly, and it is expected the vessels will be<br/>
ready about January next. Kurrachee<br/>
is two days nearer Aden than Bombay is,<br/>
and the new steamers will take the Punjab<br/>
passenger traffic. But till Mooltan and<br/>
Kotree are connected by rail the rest of<br/>
Northern India will take the Bombay<br/>
route.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HUMAN FOOD.-—A letter from Berlin<br/>
states that great success has attended the<br/>
introduction of horse-flesh in that capital<br/>
as an article of human food. The meat<br/>
is perfectly wholesome, and very palata-<br/>
bly palatable, resembling boiled coarse<br/>
beef. Grand dinners have been given by<br/>
a society interested in its introduction,<br/>
at which horse-flesh alone was produced,<br/>
though prepared in various ways.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
From our own Correspondent.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Paris 18th June 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Game is Up.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bund of Frankfort has voted<br/>
by a majority of nine votes against six.<br/>
The federal occupation against Prussia,<br/>
which had been demanded by Austria<br/>
on account of the occupation of Hol-<br/>
stein, by the Prussians in the [?].
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia on her side has formally de-<br/>
clared that she would consider as ene-<br/>
mies all that should take part with<br/>
Austria.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So the word of command will soon<br/>
be, march on to the slaughter—-sound<br/>
the trumpet of war—wives and mothers<br/>
prepare your mourning-—all for the<br/>
greater glory of Bismarck the usurper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But let the good be comforted, there<br/>
is a justice superior to that of man,<br/>
the crimes of the Prussian government<br/>
will not remain unpunished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CLEVERNESS OF AUSTRIA.-—The a-<br/>
bility shown by Austria in the present<br/>
situation has been very great; it has<br/>
shown infinite patience and art in its<br/>
tactics as you will see, it has succeeded<br/>
in gaining over all the German Con-<br/>
federation and in forcing the cabinet<br/>
of the Tuileries to assume a reserved<br/>
and almost friendly attitude—-all this<br/>
Austria has done, within 15 days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think I need not recall to your me-<br/>
mory that on the 1st inst., Austria gave<br/>
up all its rights in the Duchy of Hol-<br/>
stein in favor of the German Bund at<br/>
Frankfort-on-the-Main and that it had<br/>
further convoked the Estates of Hol-<br/>
stein at Itzehoe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia, on learning this move of her<br/>
friendly enemy, declared that the trea-<br/>
ties of Gastein and Olmütz were there-<br/>
by violated, and General Manteuffel ar-<br/>
rived the order to oppose the meeting<br/>
of the Holstein Estates at Itzehoe<br/>
even by force if necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was thought that violence would<br/>
be the Causa belli. An Austrian bri-<br/>
gade commanded by General Von<br/>
Gablens was in possession of Altona<br/>
and Itzehoe, the question was would<br/>
he allow the Prussians to turn him<br/>
out without a shot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 11th of June the Prussians<br/>
entered Itzehoe, arrested the Austrian<br/>
commissioner Larner, sent the depu-<br/>
ties to the right about and the Austrian<br/>
troops made good their escape, how-<br/>
ever, their trunks and police china were<br/>
left behind, and were confiscated. What<br/>
is of all this? Austria, who had<br/>
been so clever, had prepared for what<br/>
was to occur, by telling her soldiers that<br/>
they would be of no use, they<br/>
might pick up their trunks and follow<br/>
him out of the country as he should<br/>
return home by way of Hanover. On the 12th<br/>
there was not a Kaiserlich white coat<br/>
in the Duchies. As the game of Aus-<br/>
tria was to screen himself behind the<br/>
Bund his tactic was a wise one, it is<br/>
telling, and Prussia will therefore be<br/>
obliged to face not only the Austrian<br/>
army which is formidable, but Bava-<br/>
ria, Saxony, Hanover and all the Sec-<br/>
ondary states who well know that Vic-<br/>
tory for Bismarck will be the usurpa-<br/>
tion of all Germany by Bismarck.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
POSITION OF THE PRUSSIAN GOVERN-<br/>
MENT,-—which was really excellent two<br/>
months ago, is now considerably chang-<br/>
ed. Not only is public opinion in Eu-<br/>
rope against Count Bismarck; but he<br/>
will not even be able to reckon on the<br/>
Prussians. The democratic party which<br/>
a few months ago committed the fault<br/>
of backing the violent policy of the<br/>
haughty premier has now found out its<br/>
mistake. Hundreds of petitions have<br/>
been sent to the King praying he will<br/>
maintain peace. Everyday the troops<br/>
are called out to repress the mobs<br/>
which clamour for work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is certain that the Kammer (or<br/>
Chamber of Deputies) which is short-<br/>
ly to be elected is still more hostile<br/>
than the proceeding one to the policy<br/>
of Bismarck, and we should never be<br/>
surprised to hear that a revolution has<br/>
taken place in Berlin, and that both<br/>
the premier and all the pack of Ho-<br/>
henzollerns have been sent to the<br/>
right about. It cannot be doubted<br/>
that when the first shot has been fired<br/>
German patriotism will show itself in<br/>
all its glory-—but—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WHAT WILL FRANCE DO?—-To this<br/>
question which has been in every bo-<br/>
dy's mouth for the last six weeks an<br/>
answer was given on the 12th Inst. by<br/>
the Sphinx of the Tuileries by a dic-<br/>
tatory written to the minister of State<br/>
M. Rouher and which was read in<br/>
the Corps Legislatif or legislative bo-<br/>
dy—to cheers of applause.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE IMPERIAL MESSAGE—-is as appel-<br/>
[.......] is in many binding injunctions to the<br/>
[....................................]<br/>
[....................................]<br/>
[.......] I rejected all idea of terri-<br/>
tory till the Conference had been<br/>
held, you want to have declared in my<br/>
game, that I rejected all idea of terri-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
torial aggrandisement (loud applause)<br/>
as long as the balance of power in Eu-<br/>
rope should remain unbroken." The<br/>
message of the Emperor, which our pa-<br/>
pers will bring you in extenso, though<br/>
of a pacific character, does not promise<br/>
that France will not enter the lists<br/>
should the work begun in Italy be in<br/>
any way interrupted, the imperial<br/>
speech may be called pacifico bellico-<br/>
—as we say in France ni'eclair, ni'-<br/>
poisson, moitie fique, moitie raison.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THe CoRPS LEGISLATIVE—(as I said<br/>
before) received the Imperial message<br/>
with much applause and was disinclined<br/>
to have the present question debated,<br/>
therefore both Mons. Favre a rank an-<br/>
-Imperialist and even Mons. Thiers<br/>
were coughed down, when they tried<br/>
to say a few words about the matters<br/>
most interesting to the country at the<br/>
present moment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WAR POPULAR IN AUSTRIA AND ITA-<br/>
LY.—-A war which is feared in Prus-<br/>
sia, France and England, is however<br/>
hailed with delight in Austria and It-<br/>
aly. In Vienna vengeance to Prussia<br/>
is vowed from the Palace to the Ho-<br/>
tel. In Florence the cry is morte ai<br/>
Federachi death to the Germana—the<br/>
Italians are prepared to make every sac-<br/>
rifice to get rid of the "stranger and<br/>
the Priest." The revolutionary party and<br/>
the Bourbons are taking advantage of<br/>
the movement to raise their heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Italian government is taking the<br/>
most vigorous measures to crush the<br/>
partisan of the fallen house, and almost<br/>
calls the reign of terror in "France,"<br/>
the dungeons are full of prisoners and<br/>
even the convents and barracks are<br/>
turned into prisons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After many hesitations Garibaldi<br/>
has left the island of Caprera—he is at<br/>
present at the lake of Como organizing<br/>
the bands of volunteers, and it would<br/>
seem as if he intended attacking Aus-<br/>
tria in the Tyrol.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
However we shall soon know what is<br/>
going to be done, for it is utterly impos-<br/>
sible that things can go on as at pres-<br/>
ent, we shall soon see the
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HORRORS OF WAR.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Cholera is in the South of Spain,<br/>
at Nantes, and at Rotterdam, where it<br/>
seems to resist all the efforts of the med-<br/>
ical men. Advices from Italy inform<br/>
us that much fever reigns among the<br/>
troops now on the border of the Po.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN IMPORTANT ARREST—-took place<br/>
a few days ago at one of the Paris<br/>
railway stations, of a man who was<br/>
found to be carrying several detona-<br/>
ting balls in his overcoat pocket simi-<br/>
lar to those made use of by Orsini and<br/>
others who attempted the life of the<br/>
Emperor in 1857. It is thought that<br/>
he forms part of a conspiracy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FARE THEE WELL, AND IF FOREVER.—<br/>
It was yesterday reported that the Em-<br/>
peror Maximilian had decided upon<br/>
throwing up the Imperial crown of<br/>
Mexico, but we are as yet without con-<br/>
firmation of the same. Mexican bonds<br/>
are now 187, they were issued at 345.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION—-will<br/>
take place with or without war; the<br/>
knowing ones affirm that should it<br/>
break out, it will not last long, unless<br/>
indeed the Czar should wish to put<br/>
his finger in the fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARIS AMUSEMENTS.—-As you can<br/>
imagine there is no very great desire<br/>
to take pleasure of any kind with the<br/>
sword of Damocles hanging over our<br/>
heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GRAND FETE AT THE ELYSEE.—<br/>
There were great doings a few days<br/>
ago at the Elysee Bourbon, which has<br/>
just been restored on a grand scale<br/>
as a residence for the Prince Imperial.<br/>
The Empress gave a splendid fete to<br/>
the grand Duchess Marie of Russia,<br/>
who is related to the Emperor. It sur-<br/>
passed any thing yet attempted, and all<br/>
Paris is talking of the fairy-like ap-<br/>
pearance of the gardens lit up by the<br/>
electric light which sent its rays<br/>
through the branches of the beautiful<br/>
trees which used to shade the Em-<br/>
peror whilst taking his coffee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rossi the great Italian tragedian is<br/>
still with us, he has made quite a sen-<br/>
sation in Amleto (Hamlet) and other<br/>
Shakespearean parts—-he will shortly<br/>
leave us for a tour in England and<br/>
the U.S.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Poor Batty who was the other day<br/>
bit by the lion is still suffering from<br/>
the wound inflicted on him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Latest accounts from America in-<br/>
form us that the chamber of represen-<br/>
tatives has just passed a bill voting the<br/>
maintenance and amelioration of the<br/>
Freedmen's Bureau.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate has modified the con-<br/>
stitutional amendment which had been<br/>
previously adopted by the chamber,<br/>
depriving all those of a right to vote<br/>
who had taken a part in the late rebel-<br/>
lion, until the year 1870. It is very<br/>
likely this amendment will take its place<br/>
among the laws of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenians have at last made their<br/>
threatened attack on Canada, but were<br/>
unsuccessful as almost all those who<br/>
took part in the invasion were made<br/>
prisoners by the volunteers of Buffa-<br/>
lo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P. S. Things are coming to a cli-<br/>
max in Germany. The Prussians<br/>
have entered Saxony, Hanover and<br/>
Electoral Hesse. On the approach of<br/>
the Prussians the Saxon army retreat-<br/>
ed abandoning the Capital toward<br/>
which the Prussians were marching.<br/>
The representative of Saxony at Frank-<br/>
fort has demanded the assistance of<br/>
Austria and Bavaria. It is thought<br/>
that the Austrians have already enter-<br/>
ed Saxony and that an encounter will<br/>
shortly take place.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraph extension to Siam
AND SINGAPORE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The public of British Burmah will<br/>
learn with sincere satisfaction, that His<br/>
Majesty the King of Siam, as announ-<br/>
ced in the ‘Bangkok Recorder’ of the<br/>
26th April, has just granted a conces-<br/>
sion to W. H. Read, Esquire, Honor-<br/>
ary Magistrate of Singapore for the<br/>
construction of a line of Telegraph<br/>
through Siamese territory down the<br/>
coast to Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Repeatedly has this interesting sub-<br/>
ject been referred to in our columns.<br/>
Every body may take it for granted<br/>
that the Siamese Government will give<br/>
their entire support to any just and<br/>
rational plan, for connecting Siam with<br/>
Burmah, India and Europe. This<br/>
sanction now given to run the line<br/>
down through Siamese territory to<br/>
Singapore from Rangoon is in keeping<br/>
with the well known liberal character<br/>
of the present sovereign of that king-<br/>
dom. He will not enter upon hazar-<br/>
dous speculations. He will not grant<br/>
concessions, which he may not be able<br/>
to perform. In short, he will engage<br/>
to do only those things, which he<br/>
knows he can do. He will not promise<br/>
to stand sentry over the line wherever<br/>
it may be put down. Nor will be<br/>
promise to make it good in case of its<br/>
getting injured from any accident<br/>
whatever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He will give permission to any Tele-<br/>
graph Company to carry out their plans<br/>
in his territory; and they have the same<br/>
protection for their property, as every<br/>
other subject of His Majesty. It is<br/>
absurd to ask for anything more. More-<br/>
over it is very possible that the King<br/>
may subscribe for a number of shares,<br/>
and require certain guarantees for the<br/>
use of the line when wanted for public<br/>
purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There can be no question, that if a<br/>
line is constructed from Maulmain pas-<br/>
sing down through the Seaport of<br/>
Amherst, the large Burmese town of<br/>
Yes, the town of Tavoy and the town<br/>
of Mergui in British Burmah, it will<br/>
help to swell the future dividends of<br/>
the Shareholders. From Tavoy a line<br/>
of eighty miles will reach Bangkok the<br/>
capital of Siam. If it is intended to<br/>
carry the wire down to the eastern side<br/>
of the Malay peninsula, instead of the<br/>
west, the advantages of that route may<br/>
be more acceptable to the Siamese<br/>
government and the general utility of<br/>
the line than by the western route.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About twelve months ago, a gentle-<br/>
man visited Rangoon, who had been<br/>
deputed by the King of Siam to travel<br/>
across the country from Bangkok. He<br/>
was requested to reconnoitre the coun-<br/>
try to see if any difficulties existed<br/>
against the contemplated possibility<br/>
of constructing a telegraph between<br/>
the two states at an early period.<br/>
We believe he was favorably impress-<br/>
ed from what he saw, that there were<br/>
no obstacles whatever in the way,<br/>
which could not be easily surmounted.<br/>
Whatever Telegraph Company may<br/>
ultimately be induced to embark on<br/>
this enterprise, they may rest perfectly<br/>
sure of receiving every encouragement<br/>
of a reasonable nature both from the<br/>
British and Siamese Governments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This work of constructing a line of<br/>
telegraph through a foreign territory<br/>
must of course be left to private enter-<br/>
prise. Whatever the British Govern-<br/>
ment may do to connect England<br/>
and India, they certainly would feel<br/>
averse to turning Telegraph construc-<br/>
tors to all the East. It is impossible<br/>
to conceive, why there should be any<br/>
hesitation on the part of a Private<br/>
Company to undertake this good<br/>
scheme. Capitalists can find money<br/>
to fling into the ocean, hopeless of all<br/>
benefit or profit to any one; and yet to<br/>
link our own territories with a per-<br/>
fectly friendly Asiatic State is a matter<br/>
for astonishment. It is hoped that a<br/>
scheme so inviting and so full of pro-<br/>
mise will be taken in hand before long<br/>
and that the day for consultation has<br/>
nearly passed and the day of action<br/>
has at length arrived.—-Rangoon Times.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hydrographic Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the politeness of Capt. Orton<br/>
we have the perusal of a little pamph-<br/>
let entitled "HYDROGRAPHIC NOTICE":<br/>
touching the dangers in the China<br/>
sea. Our space will not allow of copy-<br/>
ing it. We can only add a little to<br/>
the circulation of the notice among<br/>
Mariners by a bare reference to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The North Dangers, as they are cal-<br/>
led, are two cays in Lat. 11° 28' N.<br/>
and Long. 114°20' 45" E. The Ri-<br/>
neman Bank extends from Lat. 7°31'<br/>
N. to 7°37' N. and from Long. 111°32'<br/>
E. to 111°45' 30" E. The Prince<br/>
Consort Bank extends from Lat. 7°<br/>
46' N. to 7°58' N. and from Long.<br/>
109°55' E. to 110°6' E. The Central<br/>
London Reef has its centre in Lat.<br/>
8°55' 30" N. and Long. 112°20' E.<br/>
said to be far the most dangerous reef<br/>
of them all. The Cuarteron Reef is in<br/>
the form of a crescent, awash, its most<br/>
Easterly extremity being in Lat. 8°50'<br/>
54" N. and Long, 112°49' 34" E. ex-<br/>
tending W. by N. three miles. The<br/>
East London Reef is seven miles long<br/>
running east and west and from one<br/>
to two miles wide, its E. end being in<br/>
Lat. 8°49'38" N. and Long. 112°37'<br/>
26" E.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To THE EDITOR OF THE "China Mail."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Hongkong, 28th June, 1866.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,—-The following extract of a private<br/>
letter from an Officer of H. M. Surveying<br/>
Vessel SWALLOW at Batavia, containing<br/>
an account of the discovery of a very dan-<br/>
gerous track at the Southern entrance of<br/>
Gaspar Straits—is of so much importance<br/>
especially at this season when so many<br/>
homeward bound vessel, are leaving China,<br/>
that I forward it to you for publication, in<br/>
anticipation of the ordinary official ac-<br/>
count.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN W. REED, MASTER H. N.,
COMMANDING H. M. S. "RIFLEMAN",
IN CHARGE OF CHINA SEA SURVEY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Found a coral patch of 6 feet near the<br/>
position of "Hippogriffe" (in S. 33° 55' 8"<br/>
105°54' 30" E.) steep to on all sides, most<br/>
dangerous for vessels running through Gas-<br/>
par straits; it is of such small extent, that<br/>
after we had found it, we had some difficul-<br/>
ty in picking it up again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Did not succeed in finding either the<br/>
"Sharpshooter" or "Mary Goddard" Rocks.<br/>
Neither could we find the Clifton Shoal,<br/>
(North of Brothers), but picked up a patch<br/>
of 22 feet S. 16° W., 12.5 miles off them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LEGACIES.-—Mary, wife of Silvanns<br/>
Sterling, recently deceased, gave her<br/>
dwelling to the first Congregational<br/>
Society, Bridgeport, to be the future<br/>
residence of its minister; also a small<br/>
sum, the interest of which is devoted<br/>
to keeping it in repair, and a further<br/>
sum towards paying the pew rents of<br/>
the deserving poor of the church. To<br/>
the American Bible Society, American<br/>
Missionary Association, American<br/>
Tract Society, American Board of<br/>
Commissioners for Foreign Missions,<br/>
and American Home Missionary So-<br/>
cieties, respectively each, $1,000; to<br/>
the American Seamen's Friend So-<br/>
ciety, $500; the American Coloniza-<br/>
tion Society, $200; and to Rev.<br/>
Daniel B. Bradley, a missionary of<br/>
the Baptist Board in Siam, a relative<br/>
of the family, $1,000; all the rest and<br/>
residue of her property she gave to<br/>
the town of Bridgeport in trust, for<br/>
the Bridgeport Protestant widow's<br/>
Society, including a lot of ground<br/>
containing about one acre, for the<br/>
site of a suitable building, as a home,<br/>
for the use of said Society.—-Pacific
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[NOTE.—-We know of no man by the name<br/>
of Rev. Daniel B. Bradley in these parts—<br/>
nor indeed of any Bradley a missionary<br/>
connected with the Baptist Mission in Siam.<br/>
But we have a slight acquaintance with one<br/>
Dan B. Bradley of the American Mission-<br/>
ary Association Board in Siam, and sur-<br/>
mise that the legacy in question must be<br/>
designed for him, as he is indeed a rela-<br/>
tive of the late Mrs. Mary Sterling, being<br/>
an own cousin on his mother's side, and she<br/>
lived in Bridgeport Conn. Is it not very<br/>
odd that this notice of the legacy in a<br/>
California paper should have been the<br/>
first word that the said Bradley had ei-<br/>
ther of the death or the legacy? Ed.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Premium on Babies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are now certain that the sour old<br/>
bachelors in Congress do not control<br/>
everything, for the ways and means com-<br/>
mittee have agreed that the income tax<br/>
shall stand as it is, with this exception,<br/>
that fifty dollars shall be added to the<br/>
600 exempted from tax for every child<br/>
of the family up to fifteen in number<br/>
This is reasonable and liberal, and what<br/>
a suggestion for increase of population is<br/>
embodied in extending the number to<br/>
fifteen. That sounds like the good old<br/>
times, when a family meant something<br/>
more than one or two spoiled children.<br/>
To be sure fifty dollars per year is but a<br/>
meager allowance for a baby of any size<br/>
in these times, but it is something to have<br/>
the fact considered, by those who levy<br/>
the taxes, that a man who obeys the or-<br/>
iginal law of the race and does his part<br/>
towards replenishing the earth, necessar-<br/>
ily uses up more of his income than the<br/>
childless, and uses it too for the benefit<br/>
of the country, whose wealth consists in<br/>
population. Family men will take cour-<br/>
age, and thank the Congressmen who<br/>
show this consideration at the same time<br/>
of their services and their necessities.—-<br/>
SPRINGFIELD REPUBLICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">50</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">78</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">75</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Sup. mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P pical.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Ord.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Inf.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuun</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">55</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">110</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P pical.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">none</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO</td>
 <td>HIDES</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">17</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO</td>
 <td>HORNS</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIS</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">190</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">140</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mixed</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">90</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">19½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td>Nominally</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">66</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">700</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">225</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD</td>
 <td>3@4 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>4@5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5@6 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRAOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>7 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plabeng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaalit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mussels</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">250</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GOLDBAY—Tic. 17 P Ticals weight.<br/>
EXCHANGE—On Singapore 8 P cent<br/>
premium 10 d. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS—The harbor is clear of<br/>
foreign unchartered vessels. There is a<br/>
slight demand for small vessels, present<br/>
freights are from 40 to 45 cents P picul<br/>
for Hongkong, and from 25 to 30 cents<br/>
P picul for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We report the following charters—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British ship “Cutty Sark” 12,000 ph.<br/>
45 cents inside, and 40 cents P picul out-<br/>
side, rice to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bremen bark “Scharnhorst” 45 cents<br/>
inside, and 40 cents P picul outside, rice<br/>
for Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner “Clio” 2,700 piculs<br/>
$700 in full to Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner “Water Lily” 25 cents<br/>
P picul to Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed for<br/>
Hongkong, on the owners account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Hap Seng” with 231 pls.<br/>
rice, 695 sapanwood, 680 sugar, 425 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Queen of England” with<br/>
10,366 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Seaforth” with 1,210 pls.<br/>
rice, 969 sapanwood, 823 sugar, 699<br/>
pepper, 136 tin, 567 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Sword Fish” with 4,664<br/>
pls. rice, 1,000 sapanwood, 200 teelseed,<br/>
950 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Rapid” with 1,721 sapan-<br/>
wood, 1,176 sugar, 370 pepper, 180<br/>
teelseed, 950 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Race Horse” with 3,867<br/>
pls. rice, 1,005 sapanwood, 493 pepper,<br/>
972 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam schooner “Mary Rose” with 7,400<br/>
pls. rice, 330 sapanwood, 87 hides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “St. Mary” with 3,673 pls.<br/>
rice, 179 sapanwood, 104 horns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Chow Sye” with 2,876 pls.<br/>
rice, 2,280 sapanwood, 600 sugar, 826<br/>
pepper, 40 horns, 1,194 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Comet” with 2,680 pls.<br/>
sapanwood, 3,590 sugar, 1,416 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship “Contest” with 1,300 pls.<br/>
rice, 1,419 sapanwood, 1,300 sugar, 1,091<br/>
paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer “Chow Phya” for Singa-<br/>
pore, with 4,226 pls. rice, 343 sugar,<br/>
85 horns, 16 silk.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russia
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram had been received at St.<br/>
Petersburg, dated Orenburg, May 20,<br/>
which was to the following effect :—-<br/>
“Major General Romanowski announces<br/>
that on the 8th of May the principal<br/>
army of the Emir of Bokhara, number-<br/>
ing 40,000 men, and having 21 guns, was<br/>
completely routed near Idjar. The Emir<br/>
fled to Dyouzak with a hundred Sarbares<br/>
and two guns. The remainder of his<br/>
artillery, two immense camps, and the<br/>
baggage, fell into our hands. The ene-<br/>
my left more than a thousand dead on<br/>
the battle-field; our losses are insig-<br/>
nificant.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Heat
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A maximum temperature of 102° in<br/>
the shade against 94° last year, with only<br/>
10½ inches of rain against 21, will excuse<br/>
some mention of the weather. Bengal<br/>
lives in a Turkish bath. Seldom if ever<br/>
was such intense and continuous heat<br/>
experienced. The oldest inhabitant is<br/>
compelled to travel back to 1842 to find<br/>
anything approaching to the present wea-<br/>
ther. Week after week passes away with-<br/>
out change or improvement. The friendly<br/>
cloud freighted from the ocean will not<br/>
stay, or stays to no purpose. Sharp storms<br/>
have proved inadequate to dispel the fiery<br/>
atmospheric pall by which the land is en-<br/>
veloped. Thunder, lightning and earth-<br/>
quake avail nothing, and rain only seems<br/>
to evolve caloric from the overcharged<br/>
earth, thereby adding steam to other en-<br/>
joyments. The Calcutta crows sit with<br/>
distended beaks, and the long-legged ad-<br/>
jutants have returned to the ice-bound<br/>
regions of Chandernagore. The air is in-<br/>
tensely sultry-a dull, opaque body of<br/>
warm water heavy laden with dust, and<br/>
a vertical sun beats upon the city, its nar-<br/>
row gullies, impure tanks and crowded<br/>
bazaars, with fierce and unrelenting fury.<br/>
Palki bearers stagger slowly along with<br/>
loads they can scarcely raise, horses lie<br/>
dead in many streets killed by the heat,<br/>
and the palms and cocoa-nut trees droop<br/>
their heads. All nature groans under the<br/>
intolerable burden. The fate of the An-<br/>
cient Mariner was nothing compared with<br/>
that of the Calcutta cockney. Prickly<br/>
heat, mosquitoes and imperfect drainage<br/>
were unknown to him of “the grey beard<br/>
and glittering eye.” Moreover he enjoyed<br/>
the advantage of sea-air. The eye falters<br/>
beneath an insufferable glare, which causes<br/>
the tin dome of Government House to<br/>
shine with ineffable glory—another and<br/>
vice-regal sun. We exist in a huge ex-<br/>
panse, tempered by ice, mango, fish and<br/>
ponkahs bodily pulled. Men waste and<br/>
fade away under the melting ordeal, and<br/>
but for the Directory and Army List<br/>
might forget their identity.—-FRIEND OF<br/>
INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A strange story of a fire
proof chest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What very nearly amounted to a shock-<br/>
ing tragedy, reminding one not a little of<br/>
the famous old story of the bride and the<br/>
chest, took place at Oxford last Tuesday.<br/>
At the handsome Randolph Hotel in that<br/>
city, lately built, two men and a boy em-<br/>
ployed on the premises, from fun and<br/>
curiosity, we believe, got into a very<br/>
carefully constructed fireproof plate closet.<br/>
Another servant, also in fun, little thinking<br/>
what he was doing, closed the door. [..]<br/>
fastened with a spring lock, and the hor-<br/>
rified victims found themselves enclosed<br/>
in an air tight box about three feet square<br/>
by six feet high. It is difficult to under-<br/>
stand how three persons could have squeez-<br/>
ed themselves into such a place, for there<br/>
was only just standing room; but such is<br/>
the fact. Their cries soon alarmed the es-<br/>
tablishment and at last the key was found;<br/>
but, as might be expected in the confusion,<br/>
under the agonised efforts of the frighten-<br/>
ed man who had shut the door, it broke<br/>
in the lock. There was now nothing for<br/>
it but to break in, but the extraordinary<br/>
strength of the door resisted every effort<br/>
of several sledge-hammers, wielded by<br/>
powerful men, working for the life of their<br/>
fellow-creatures. The escape of the pri-<br/>
soners was only effected after having<br/>
been immured for more than half-an-hour,<br/>
by breaking through the wall with proper<br/>
mason's tools. The boy had fainted, and<br/>
one of the men was bleeding at the nose<br/>
and mouth; the other had not yet begun<br/>
to suffer visibly, though much distressed.<br/>
A very few minutes more—it is said not<br/>
more than five—and some, if not all, must<br/>
have perished. Considerable crowds col-<br/>
lected round the hotel both at the time<br/>
and afterwards.-—CHURCHMAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—"I can't," never crossed the Alps or<br/>
raised an acre of corn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—If you would be nothing, just wait<br/>
to be something.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Look out for the man, or woman,<br/>
who is always telling you to look out for<br/>
others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Said a crazy woman, of a penurious,<br/>
stingy man, "Do you see that man?"<br/>
You can blow his soul through a hum-<br/>
ming bird's quill into a mosquito's eye,<br/>
and the mosquito wouldn't wink!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Grapple ever with opportunity. And<br/>
as you do not know when opportunity<br/>
will happen, keep your grappling irons<br/>
always ready.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The man who can make his own fire,<br/>
black his own boots, carry his own wood,<br/>
hoe his own garden, pay his own debts,<br/>
and live without wine and tobacco need<br/>
ask no favor of him who rides in a coach-<br/>
and-four.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Dutchman carried two mugs to<br/>
the milkman in place of one, as usual,<br/>
and being asked the meaning of it, re-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
plied: “ Dis vor te millich, an’ dis vor<br/>
te vater, an’ I vill mix tem zo as to zoote<br/>
myzelf.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-An Eastern caliph being sorely a-<br/>
flicted with enui, was advised that an<br/>
exchange of shirts with a man who was<br/>
perfectly happy, would cure him. After<br/>
a long search, he discovered such a man,<br/>
but was informed that the happy fellow<br/>
had no shirt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An old picture represents a king sit-<br/>
ting in state, with a label, “I govern all,”<br/>
—-a bishop with a legend, “I pray for<br/>
all,”—-a soldier with a motto, “I fight<br/>
for all,” and a farmer, drawing forth<br/>
reluctantly a purse, with the superscrip-<br/>
tion, “I pay for all.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Any assurance which does not lead to<br/>
more careful walking before God, to<br/>
more earnest and deep heart-searchings,<br/>
and to quicker and heart felt repentings,<br/>
we may rest assured is a false peace—<br/>
one that comes from the father of lies,<br/>
and not from God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Lost wealth may be regained by in-<br/>
dustry; the wreck of health restored by<br/>
temperance; forgotten knowledge may<br/>
be ours again by study; alienated friend-<br/>
ship soothed into forgetfulness and even<br/>
forfeited reputation redeemed by a life<br/>
of patience and virtue. But who ever<br/>
again looked upon his vanished hours?—<br/>
recalled his wasted years? or erased from<br/>
Heaven’s record this fearful blot of was-<br/>
ted time?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“I will extend no other mercy to<br/>
you,” said a prince to a jester, who for a<br/>
fault, was condemned to death, “except<br/>
permitting you to choose what kind of<br/>
death you will die.—Decide immediately,<br/>
for I will be obeyed.” “I adore your<br/>
clemency,” said the jester; I choose to<br/>
die of old age.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“When the world had become so cor-<br/>
rupt that the Lord could do nothing with<br/>
it, he was obliged to give it a thorough<br/>
sowing in cold water.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Yes,” replied a toper present, “but<br/>
it killed every critter on the face of the<br/>
earth.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The lawyer’s motto—Be brief.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The doctor’s motto—Be patient.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The potter’s motto—Beware.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The type-setter’s motto—-Be com-<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
—-One of the miseries of human life<br/>
is going to dine with your friend on<br/>
the strength of a general invitation,<br/>
and finding, by the countenance of his<br/>
wife, that you had much better have<br/>
waited for a particular one.<br/>
posed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-An Irish gentleman parting with<br/>
a lazy servant woman was asked<br/>
whether she was what is termed afraid<br/>
of work. “Not at all; she’ll frequent-<br/>
ly lie down and fall asleep by the<br/>
very side of it.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-It has been said that “the finest<br/>
arts are fine manners,” and the saying<br/>
is a good and true one. But if man-<br/>
ners come from art alone, they can<br/>
have only a superficial value. When<br/>
they spring from the heart refined by<br/>
grace, they are precious as ointment<br/>
poured forth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Of a truth there can be no mean-<br/>
er type of human selfishness than<br/>
that afforded by him, who unmindful<br/>
of the world of sin and suffering about<br/>
him, occupies himself in the pitiful<br/>
business of saving his own soul in the<br/>
very spirit of the miser, watching over<br/>
his own private hoard while his neigh-<br/>
bors starve for the lack of bread.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-It does us good to admire what<br/>
is good and very beautiful. But it<br/>
does us infinitely more good to love<br/>
it. We grow like what we admire.<br/>
But we become one with what we love.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The fears which cause most of<br/>
the trouble and worry that men ex-<br/>
perience, result from undue anxiety<br/>
for the riches and so-called good<br/>
things of this life—not having the<br/>
calm faith that sustains one in doing<br/>
cheerfully and gladly the duties of<br/>
to-day, feeling fully assured that the<br/>
morrow will take care of itself, and<br/>
that strength will be given to do the<br/>
work when it is needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Reputation is a good deal like a<br/>
bonfire, you’ve got to keep piling on<br/>
the shavings. If you don’t, the flames<br/>
will soon subside.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Many people use their accomplish-<br/>
ments as a spider uses his web,—to<br/>
catch the weak upon, that they may<br/>
be mercilessly devoured.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dook Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ALL persons having any de-<br/>
mands on the undersigned,<br/>
will present them for payment,<br/>
and all persons indebted to the<br/>
undersigned, are requested to<br/>
make payment, on or before, the<br/>
15th of August, or the same will<br/>
be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
