---
linkTitle: 'July 26th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 26th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 26th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 52
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, July 26th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 29.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Closing notice of Karens.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The previous notice of the Rev. Dr.<br/>
Mason's pamphlet relating to the peculiar<br/>
views entertained by the Karen people on<br/>
various subjects, ended with the story<br/>
of the Magic Ring, which had been cut<br/>
out of the head of a Crocodile, by the<br/>
express wish of that animal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were Giants in those days before<br/>
the Flood, and the Karens believe that<br/>
there are supernatural beings even in<br/>
this day with whom they have to contend.<br/>
They are men-eating giants. "The elders<br/>
say, remarks Dr. Mason, that a little girl<br/>
went down to the brook to draw water<br/>
in the usual Karen bucket made of a joint<br/>
of a large bamboo. When she laid it on<br/>
the surface of the stream to fill with<br/>
water, it escaped from her hands and<br/>
floated away. She ran after it down the<br/>
bank till she reached a dam, which proved<br/>
to be the dam of a giant. Soon after her<br/>
arrival the giant came down to fish and<br/>
was about to devour her, but she told her<br/>
artless story, and the giant spared and<br/>
took her up to his house. Here they were<br/>
met by the giantess, who congratulated<br/>
her husband on having picked up so nice<br/>
a morsel for their dinner. However the<br/>
old giant protected the child and she be-<br/>
came their adopted daughter."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the Karens it is a friendly act<br/>
to examine one another's beads for ver-<br/>
min. In performing that act for the<br/>
giantess, the little girl found her head full<br/>
of green snakes and centipedes. It be-<br/>
came necessary to get an axe to destroy<br/>
them. While living in the giant's family<br/>
the little girl made a discovery that there<br/>
were two baskets in the house, one was<br/>
filled with gold and silver, the other with<br/>
human skulls, the owners of which had<br/>
been eaten by the giant and giantess.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The girl got leave to return home, and<br/>
when she was going, she asked to have a<br/>
basket to take with her. Of course she<br/>
took the one with the gold and silver in<br/>
it. On reaching home, the fame of her<br/>
gold and silver brought all her friends<br/>
around her, to each of whom she give a<br/>
full bowl. Among those who received a<br/>
bowl of silver and gold, there was a dis-<br/>
satisfied young man, who coveted more.<br/>
He went to the giants house and was al-<br/>
lowed to stay with them. After a time<br/>
he, too, wished to leave and thought of<br/>
taking away a basket of gold and silver.<br/>
He got hold of the wrong basket which<br/>
contained the skulls. The giant followed<br/>
him and then eat him up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Omens. The Karens believe in Omens,<br/>
and when unpropitious they desist from<br/>
any undertaking. The Romans were simi-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
early superstitions. A snake crossing a<br/>
path, a woodpecker tapping, the falling<br/>
of the branch of a tree, the bleating of a<br/>
barking deer are all omens which must be<br/>
respected. Sickness comes because omens<br/>
are not heeded, and the neglect requires<br/>
the sacrifice of a dog, which is killed as<br/>
an atonement. After being flung three<br/>
times backwards and forward the dog is<br/>
then cooked and eaten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOOTHSAYING. The wrath of unseen<br/>
spirits is appeased through soothsayers,<br/>
who make offerings to get the evil one to<br/>
depart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NECROMANCERS, are a superior class to<br/>
the soothsayers. They profess to have<br/>
eyes to see invisible spirits. They can<br/>
call up the spirits of the dead from Hades<br/>
and converse with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A necromancer was once invoked to<br/>
bring back the two daughters of a widow,<br/>
both of whom died from ill usage. He<br/>
spoke to them both in Hades, "Thy<br/>
mother on earth, weeps for thee exceed-<br/>
ingly. Go comfort her."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The younger sister then sang to her<br/>
elder sister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Return Sister, mother requests,"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"She weeps for us in deep distress,"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Return not to her, sister dear,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Twas mother who beat and sent us here,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The younger sister was a case of resurrection,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}She came to life again.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The elder sister responds,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FOWLS' BONES. Concerning this super-<br/>
stition Dr. Mason remarks, "In the be-<br/>
ginning, say the elders, God gave to the<br/>
Chinese a book of paper, to the Burmese<br/>
a book of palm leaves, to the Karens a<br/>
book of skins. The Chinese and Burmese<br/>
studied their books, and taught then to<br/>
their children. But the Karens were<br/>
indolent and did not value their book, but<br/>
laid it at the end of their house, where<br/>
it was thrown down on the ground and a<br/>
hog came and tore it up. After the hog<br/>
had gone, a fowl came and picked up all<br/>
the fragments."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This, it will be noticed, is the Karen<br/>
tradition respecting the manner in which<br/>
they lost the law of God, which they as-<br/>
sert they once possessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Both the Chinese and Burmese greatly<br/>
excelled the Karens, because of their<br/>
knowledge of books. Believing that the<br/>
fowl which had eaten up the book, must<br/>
possess all the knowledge which is con-<br/>
tained, the Karens resolved to consult its<br/>
thigh bones, and to note the mark and<br/>
indentations made by the tendons on them<br/>
as letters, and pray to it to reveal its<br/>
knowledge.' This praying to the thigh<br/>
bones of a cock seems to be a very com-<br/>
mon superstition among that people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are able to present our readers<br/>
with only the most meagre outline of these<br/>
Karen stories, which have come down<br/>
from father to son, for many generations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ASTRONOMY AND COSMOLOGY. Accord-<br/>
ing to the views of these people, "There<br/>
are seven heavens, and seven earths."<br/>
Though this expression occurs frequently<br/>
in Karen traditions, yet the people have<br/>
no definite ideas on the subject. The<br/>
sun is supposed to go round the earth.<br/>
In the west are two massive strata of rocks<br/>
which are continually opening and shut-<br/>
ting. Between these strata the sun<br/>
descends in the evening, but how the up-<br/>
per stratum is supported they are unable<br/>
to describe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONSTELLATIONS. For the most promi-<br/>
nent constellations, the Karens have<br/>
names. The great bear, they call an<br/>
elephant, and so do the Burmese and Hin-<br/>
dus. The Polestar is a mouse crawling<br/>
into the elephant's trunk. The Southern<br/>
cross, they call the Mai-la-ka, a name<br/>
whose derivation is not obvious. The<br/>
Pleiades is called the great house and is<br/>
regarded as a family of persons, one of<br/>
whom being lost, there are only six now.<br/>
The Karens of the South call the milky<br/>
way, THE PADDY BIN, while the Bghais<br/>
denominate it as the BAZAR STREET, be-<br/>
cause the streets in a bazar are an undes-<br/>
tinguishable mass of people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COMETS are sometimes called, 'Tailed<br/>
Stars,' sometimes 'Fire Stars' and some-<br/>
times, 'smoke stars.' In common with all<br/>
other unenlightened nations, the Karens<br/>
regard their appearance as indicating ap-<br/>
proaching war, famine, pestilence, or other<br/>
public calamities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PLANETS seem to be unrecognized<br/>
except Venus, which is sometimes called<br/>
The Star receiving the morning, at other<br/>
times, 'The Star receiving the evening.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SHOOTING STARS are said to be Youth<br/>
stars going to visit the 'Maiden Star.'<br/>
When a Karen girl sees one, she exclaims.<br/>
'May my hair grow as long as the path<br/>
thou fliest.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
METEORS are the animals which pro-<br/>
duce gold and silver and when seen in the<br/>
heavens descending to earth, are suppo-<br/>
sed to be returning home. When a report<br/>
is heard, as the Karens say there often is,<br/>
it is the roar the animal makes on enter-<br/>
ing the earth. Wherever they fall gold<br/>
or silver is sure to be found.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DIVISION OF THE YEAR. The Karens<br/>
divide the year into twelve lunar months,<br/>
and like occidental nations, they begin it<br/>
with January and end it with December.<br/>
This is contrary, says Dr. Mason, to<br/>
the usage of all the nations that surround<br/>
them. The Burmese, the Talines, and<br/>
the Shams commence the year in March<br/>
(or April.) The Civil year, as stated<br/>
in the Journal of the Asiatic Society<br/>
Bengal, commences differently in dif-<br/>
ferent parts of Thibet, varying from<br/>
December to February. Dr. Mason thinks<br/>
the Karens have derived their calendar<br/>
from Thibet, for while they now make<br/>
the year to begin in January, the months<br/>
corresponding to June and July are de-<br/>
signated numerically the "seventh" and<br/>
eight months, which must have origina-<br/>
ted from a system, that made December<br/>
the first month, as our September and<br/>
October must have been named when the<br/>
year was made to commence in March.<br/>
With these people, January is the search-<br/>
ing month. February the hewing month,<br/>
April the seed month, August is the month<br/>
of gladness, and December is named the<br/>
month of shades.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We must here close this somewhat<br/>
lengthened notice of the Rev. Dr. Mason's<br/>
interesting production regarding the<br/>
Karens. We have to express our obliga-<br/>
tions for his researches, which have en-<br/>
abled us to place a good deal of informa-<br/>
tion before our readers, concerning one<br/>
of the indigeneous races of Burmah, who<br/>
are rapidly accepting those great and<br/>
grand truths, which make wise unto sal-<br/>
vation.—-RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sir Herbert Edwardes on India
Missions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Monday the Sixty-seventh Anniver-<br/>
sary Meeting of the Church Missionary<br/>
Society was held in the large room, Exe-<br/>
ter Hall, the Bishop of Ripon in the<br/>
Chair. Sir H. Edwardes, seconded by<br/>
the Rev. W. S. Smith Chaplain to the<br/>
Bishop of Madras, moved the Resolution:<br/>
—-“That the speedy triumph of Chris-<br/>
tianity in British India becomes every day<br/>
more hopeful, if the proclamation of the<br/>
Gospel be viewed in connexion with the<br/>
momentous changes which are going for-<br/>
ward in the political, social, and intel-<br/>
lectual habits of the people.” The battle<br/>
of India has now been fought. Clive's<br/>
battle of Plassey, in 1757, founded the<br/>
British Empire; but it was not completed<br/>
till the Sepoy war of 1857, and the total<br/>
re-organization of the native army, and<br/>
increase of the European army, which<br/>
succeeded that great effort to expel us.<br/>
All ranks, from the Rajah to the mercen-<br/>
ary soldier; all classes, from the million-<br/>
aire banker to the tiller of the soil; all<br/>
creeds, Hindoo, Mohammedan, Parsee,<br/>
native Christian, and European Christian,<br/>
alike feel this to be the case, and act upon<br/>
it; some with disappointment, some with<br/>
fear, some with hope, but all with a new<br/>
impulse and conviction. The native chiefs<br/>
are now busy in securing or extending<br/>
their rights under English title deeds.<br/>
The military classes see their occupation<br/>
slipping away, and are betaking themsel-<br/>
ves to other callings. Capital, of which<br/>
the timidity is proverbial has unlocked its<br/>
hoards in India since 1857, and is trading<br/>
no longer village with village, and pro-<br/>
vince with province, but with all the<br/>
countries of the world. And what is to be<br/>
noted is the novel association of natives<br/>
and Europeans in large schemes of com-<br/>
merce, which forms a new bond of union.<br/>
One of the most marked results of an as-<br/>
sured state of peace is the extraordinary<br/>
struggle for land which is now going on<br/>
in India, as if the whole population were<br/>
animated by an instinct to take root, and<br/>
perceived that it must be done now<br/>
or never. Every squatter of unquiet times<br/>
is now engaged in obtaining from the<br/>
English Courts a title derived from oc-<br/>
cupation; every old proprietor, who had<br/>
left the paternal acres to go off soldiering<br/>
at native courts, is now reappearing at<br/>
his home, and spending his last rupee in<br/>
trying to oust the squatter, and establish<br/>
a title from hereditary right. Every<br/>
tenant-at-will is trying to convert himself<br/>
into a landlord, and every landlord is<br/>
trying to eject his tenant-at-will. The<br/>
struggle is intensified by two classes, the<br/>
native merchants and bankers and the<br/>
European settler. The native merchant,<br/>
like the merchant in England desires the<br/>
status in the country which land carries<br/>
with it; and the European settler, believ-<br/>
ing in a prosperous and peaceful future,<br/>
wants land for tea, coffee, sugar, cotton,<br/>
flax, and indigo, and calls on the Govern-<br/>
ment of India to redeem the land-tax in<br/>
perpetuity, that there may be no fetters<br/>
on his enterprise. Then we have the<br/>
telegraph from every corner of India to<br/>
the three capitals, and from the capitals<br/>
to Europe, spreading intelligence, encour-<br/>
aging enterprise, awakening human sym-<br/>
pathies, and carrying with it political<br/>
education. The great system of railroads<br/>
projected under the East India Company<br/>
is now rapidly approaching development<br/>
in the union of all the capitals with each<br/>
other and with the farthest frontiers;<br/>
bringing province into communication<br/>
with province in a way unknown before<br/>
to the stagnant East, and raising the prices<br/>
of all agricultural produce for the benefit<br/>
of the people; while it places in the hands<br/>
of Government a fresh security for peace<br/>
throughout the empire. New works of<br/>
irrigation are increasing year by year the<br/>
area of cultivation. Great public works<br/>
are raising the demand for labour; so that<br/>
one of the most thickly populated coun-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tries in the world can no longer afford to<br/>
send coolies to the Mauritius or the West<br/>
Indies, but wants every man at home. I<br/>
do not expatiate upon these changes which<br/>
are going on in the political life of India.<br/>
I do but hastily marshal them before you.<br/>
You are well able to think them out for<br/>
yourselves; and all I ask you to realize is<br/>
that the great mutiny of 1857 fell like a<br/>
landslip from the mountains across the<br/>
current of British power; that by God’s<br/>
help the dammed-up flood rose and rose<br/>
till it prevailed; and clearing its way<br/>
through piled up rock and forest, scatter-<br/>
ed them in broken splinters over the land<br/>
and is now flowing on in broader, deeper,<br/>
swifter streams than ever of fertility,<br/>
progress, and civilization. Let us now<br/>
turn and see what changes are going on<br/>
in the "social and intellectual habits of<br/>
the people." They are so intertwined<br/>
together that I will not attempt to sep-<br/>
arate them. The great fact that stands<br/>
out from all others is this, that Western<br/>
education has begun to tell at last upon<br/>
the Eastern mind; and that after centuries<br/>
of stagnation it may now be said joyfully<br/>
of the intellect of India, as the hearty<br/>
English crowd shouted the other day at<br/>
the launch of the Northumberland, "She’s<br/>
off! She’s off!" In using the term "West-<br/>
ern education" I speak advisedly, in or-<br/>
der to include education of all kinds,<br/>
secular and religious, that given by the<br/>
State and that given by missionary Socie-<br/>
ties. The latest statistics I can obtain<br/>
are from the FRIEND OF INDIA, which<br/>
states that "There are in all 30,000,000<br/>
of children in India who should be at<br/>
school. Of these, missionaries educate<br/>
100,000 and the State only 127,513." The<br/>
State schools were costing £250,000. a<br/>
year; and the State also gave grants-in-<br/>
aid to the mission schools amounting to<br/>
£16,500. more. This seems very little;-<br/>
less than 300,000 children at school out<br/>
of 30,000,000. But it is as large as the<br/>
leaven which raises a baking of bread.<br/>
(Applause.) After all it is only a small<br/>
knot of thinkers who ever raise their<br/>
country out of ignorance. (Hear, hear.)<br/>
And what we have to look to is not as<br/>
much the number of the scholars, as the<br/>
kind of ideas which are being taught and<br/>
spread abroad in the country. Now, what<br/>
are the ideas of the educated natives of<br/>
the day? Let us take the Hindoos, for<br/>
they are nine-tenths of the population of<br/>
India; are the most thoughtful race, and<br/>
are doubtless the race through whom In-<br/>
dia will be regenerated. It may surprise<br/>
many of you—but no one who knows<br/>
India of to-day will deny what I now<br/>
state—that a school, of thoughtful and<br/>
proselytizing Reformers has sprung up,<br/>
who are actively engaged in what they<br/>
call the Reformation of Hindooism. The<br/>
points on which they mainly insist are,—<br/>
renunciation of idolatry and polytheism,<br/>
and adoption of a pure Deism; abolition<br/>
of caste; abolition of polygamy; abolition<br/>
of infant marriages; female education,<br/>
and general introduction of women into<br/>
society; purity of morals. (Great ap-<br/>
plause.) A still more advanced school<br/>
have a dawning consciousness that even<br/>
Deism is but a halting place, and real<br/>
reformers must push on to a higher faith.<br/>
The centre of all this movement has been<br/>
the association called the Brahmo Somaj<br/>
in Calcutta; and what marks the vitality<br/>
of their impulse, is their missionary zeal.<br/>
(Applause.) The Brahmo Somaj are<br/>
most active proselytizers, and have sent<br/>
missionaries of their own to the other two<br/>
capitals of India, to preach the reform-<br/>
ation they have in hand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor are these movements entirely con-<br/>
fined to the Brahmo Somaj and its bran-<br/>
ches. The very last mails from India<br/>
have brought us accounts of a Petition<br/>
having been presented to the Bengal<br/>
Government praying for the emancipation<br/>
of the "females of Bengal from the pains,<br/>
cruelties, and attendant crimes of the<br/>
debasing custom of polygamy." (Hear,<br/>
hear.) The Petition was signed by<br/>
21,000 Hindoos, among whom (says the<br/>
FRIEND OF INDIA) "are the highest in<br/>
rank, learning, wealth, and sanctity in<br/>
Bengal." (Applause.) Every question<br/>
connected with the degraded state of wo-<br/>
man in India is just now being thoroughly<br/>
canvassed by the natives themselves; and<br/>
I doubt not that some decided movement<br/>
like this against polygamy will soon be<br/>
made against infant marriages. The<br/>
Mohammedans still remain the most dif-<br/>
ficult to move; and they are in danger of<br/>
dropping into the rear and being left be-<br/>
hind in all departments by the educated<br/>
Hindoos. Still here and there we hear<br/>
of some Mohammedan like Safder Ali,<br/>
who has the courage to inquire for him-<br/>
self, and become a Christian. (Applause.)<br/>
The last mail mentions two incidents of<br/>
great independence among Mohamme-<br/>
dans. The first is the establishment of<br/>
female schools throughout his territory<br/>
by the Nawab of Rampore in Rohilkund;<br/>
and the second is the prayer for the Royal<br/>
family being offered up (it is believed<br/>
for the first time in India) in the great<br/>
Mosque at Lahore, in the name of Queen<br/>
Victoria. (Great applause.) Here are<br/>
proofs, in the language of the Resolution<br/>
before us, that "momentous changes are<br/>
going forward in the social, and intel-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
lectual habits of the people." Whence do<br/>
they spring, and whither are they leading<br/>
the people of India? I maintain that from<br/>
Christianity they come; and in Christianity<br/>
they will find their consummation. (Ap-<br/>
plause.) I do not deny that the Secular<br/>
Education imparted by the State has had<br/>
a large share in this good work, as well as<br/>
the direct missionary labour. But what<br/>
is the secular education of the nineteenth<br/>
century? It is an amalgamation of ancient<br/>
learning, modern science, and Christian<br/>
ethics. Alone it cannot give the Christian<br/>
faith; but neither is it hostile to Christ-<br/>
ianity-—rather it prepares the way, and<br/>
welcomes fuller light and truth when it<br/>
arrives. (Applause.) That secular educa-<br/>
tion and civilization will ever regenerate<br/>
a nation I do not believe. It does not<br/>
go to the root of the matter. It is a police<br/>
code at best. It does much to suppress<br/>
crime between man and man; but it does<br/>
nothing for sin between man and his Ma-<br/>
ker. Undoubtedly it softens what is "brutal<br/>
in human nature;" but it leaves untouched<br/>
what is Satanic. (Hear, hear.) It was<br/>
well said by one of the ablest missionaries<br/>
in India (Dr. Mullens) that "He alone<br/>
can make a new nation who can form a<br/>
new man." (Great applause.) That he<br/>
is forming a new nation in India, is clear<br/>
to every thoughtful mind. While the<br/>
Hindoos are busy pulling down their own<br/>
religion, the Christian Church is rising<br/>
above the horizon. Amidst a dense popu-<br/>
lation of 200 million of heathen, the little<br/>
flock of 200,000 native Christians, may<br/>
seem like a speck; but surely it is that<br/>
"little cloud out of the sea, like a man's<br/>
hand," which tells that there is to be "a<br/>
great rain." (Hear.) Every other faith<br/>
in India is decaying. Christianity alone<br/>
is beginning to run its course. It has<br/>
taken long to plant, but it has now taken<br/>
root, and by God's grace will never be<br/>
uprooted. (Great applause.) The Chris-<br/>
tian converts have already been tested by<br/>
persecution and martyrdom, in 1857; and<br/>
stood the test without apostasy. And I<br/>
believe that if the English were driven<br/>
out of India to-morrow, Christianity<br/>
would remain and triumph. (Applause.)<br/>
In conclusion, I would wish to guard all<br/>
friends of Missions against two great<br/>
errors,-—the Scylla and Charybdis of<br/>
Evangelical work. 1. Expecting too great<br/>
results. 2. Valuing too little the results<br/>
obtained. On the one hand don't expect<br/>
a millennium on earth before the coming<br/>
of our Lord himself. The conversion of<br/>
200,000,000 of heathen is not to be done<br/>
by pulling a bell at your fireside. It is<br/>
the vast inheritance of the Saviour, and<br/>
must be gathered in by toil and waste of<br/>
human life. But do not on the other<br/>
hand be discouraged by the testimony of<br/>
those faint-hearted witnesses who return<br/>
from the promised land with the report<br/>
that "the people be strong that dwell in<br/>
the land, and the cities are walled and<br/>
very great, and moreover we saw the<br/>
children of Anak there." (Laughter and<br/>
applause.) I too have gone up and seen<br/>
it; and have flung at your feet a cluster<br/>
of the grapes of Eshcol. (Applause.) It<br/>
is but "a cluster" it is true; for time<br/>
and strength do not serve to gather<br/>
more; but it testifies that the land "floweth<br/>
with milk and honey", of Christian<br/>
promise; and I would say with Caleb,<br/>
"Let us go up, and possess it, for we are<br/>
well able to overcome it." (Loud and<br/>
long-continued applause.) Put confidence<br/>
then in your missionaries, and sustain their<br/>
hearts. I feel ashamed to offer my poor<br/>
testimony in behalf of such a band; but<br/>
the questions that have been put to me in<br/>
England compel me to say a word. I<br/>
have been 25 years in the Indian service,<br/>
and have been thrown into contact with<br/>
many missionaries of many Protestant<br/>
denominations and from many countries.<br/>
I have found no angel among them. They<br/>
were all men. Some were gifted by God<br/>
with very high powers indeed, and some<br/>
with very humble powers. All had some<br/>
share of human frailty. But I have never<br/>
seen one who was not labouring with a<br/>
single eye for the conversion of the hea-<br/>
then to the utmost of his ability, and set-<br/>
ting the example of a holy Christian life.<br/>
(Loud applause.) Well would it be for<br/>
the State, if in any department of its ser-<br/>
vice, civil or military, it had such a body<br/>
of servants as the missionaries in India.<br/>
Do not discourage them then. Do not<br/>
distrust them. Send out more to help<br/>
them. Think how little can be done by<br/>
500 missionaries among 200,000,000 of<br/>
heathen. I remember the two first Pro-<br/>
testant missionaries who ever went to In-<br/>
dia—-Ziegenbalg and Plutscho. They<br/>
were sent by Frederic IV. of Denmark,<br/>
great-great-great-grand-father of our<br/>
Princess of Wales, (loud applause), in<br/>
1705. They found not one Protestant or<br/>
Christian in India! Remember Schwarz,<br/>
and Rhenius, and the long line of Evan-<br/>
gelists and martyrs down to Ragland, Dr.<br/>
Pfander, Janvier, and Robert Noble.<br/>
These men ploughed, and sowed, but<br/>
only reaped their tens and hundreds. And<br/>
where are they now? Absorbed like the<br/>
souls of the Brahmins? Or annihilated<br/>
like the souls of the Buddhists? Not they<br/>
are a portion of the "great cloud of wit-<br/>
nesses" who encompass you now, as Noah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued on last page.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
July 26th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Heir Apparent
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have heretofore on several oc-<br/>
casions spoken of the prince Somdetoh<br/>
Chowfa Chulalonkorn as being heir<br/>
apparent to the throse of his roy-<br/>
al sire His Majesty the present king of<br/>
Siam, and have wished him as we<br/>
still most heartily do, such promotion.<br/>
It has just occurred to us that some<br/>
of our readers may have received an<br/>
incorrect impression from our seeming<br/>
unqualified use of the phrase heir ap-<br/>
parent. We have always been aware<br/>
of the fact, that according to Siamese<br/>
custom and laws from time immemo-<br/>
rial, that there never is in Siam, an<br/>
heir apparent in the full sense in<br/>
which the phrase is used in Europe.<br/>
As we understand the English sense<br/>
of it, the person to whom it is applied is<br/>
understood to have "an absolute and<br/>
exclusive title to succeed to an estate<br/>
or crown". Now while it is true that<br/>
the eldest living son of a Siamese king<br/>
by his Queen or Queen-consort will,<br/>
according to both ancient and modern<br/>
custom, most probably become heir<br/>
to the throne of his royal sire, he can-<br/>
not be said to have an absolute and<br/>
exclusive title to it; because the ques-<br/>
tion of his accession is understood to<br/>
depend upon the electing voice of the<br/>
Senabawdee—that is the Grand Council<br/>
of the kingdom, composed of the<br/>
chief princes, nobles and lords of the<br/>
land. Whenever a Siamese king dies<br/>
there is, as we understand it, an in-<br/>
terregnum for the time being, until<br/>
the Grand Council shall make a selec-<br/>
tion of a prince to succeed to the<br/>
throne. The election, as we have<br/>
before intimated, usually results in<br/>
the choice of the eldest son of the<br/>
Queen. But there occur sometimes<br/>
certain contingencies in regard to such<br/>
a son, which render his accession to<br/>
the throne legitimiatly objectionable<br/>
in the opinion of the Council; as for<br/>
example, extreme childhood, or too<br/>
little manhood—manifest want of men-<br/>
tal capacity—gross intemperance,—<br/>
prodigacy etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have from the beginning of our<br/>
long residence in Siam ever under-<br/>
stood, that the king who immediately<br/>
preceeded his present Majesty was<br/>
elected by the Grand Council of the<br/>
kingdom out of the usual line of suc-<br/>
cession, because the elder son of his<br/>
father's Queen was then thought to be<br/>
too young to render it suitable that<br/>
he should take the reins of government:<br/>
but when, in process of time, his half-<br/>
brother, after a reign of twenty-seven<br/>
years deceased, the Grand Council<br/>
were then unanimous in the election<br/>
of him to the throne instead of one of<br/>
the most honorable and promising sons<br/>
of his late supreme Majesty, whom<br/>
his royal sire had fondly hoped would<br/>
be elected as his successor. What<br/>
better proof can we have of the advan-<br/>
tages of this Council than the choice<br/>
it made in the present just, wise and<br/>
good sovereign of Siam! This old pre-<br/>
rogative of the Senabawdee we have<br/>
no reason to think has been or will be<br/>
soon abrogated. Its abrogation now<br/>
would, in our opinion, be tantamount<br/>
to a revolution—an overthrow of the<br/>
long and justly revered prerogative of<br/>
the Grand Council.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hence in speaking or writing of an<br/>
heir apparent in Siam, we would be un-<br/>
derstood as using the phrase in its<br/>
limited not in its absolute sense—as in<br/>
speaking of the monarchy of England<br/>
all would understand us to mean a<br/>
limited and not an absolute monarchy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 4.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would hereby crave the pardon<br/>
of our readers for having left them so<br/>
long in the dark on the top of Mount<br/>
Pra-Nakawn-k'tree, without fulfilling<br/>
the promise we made them, that we<br/>
would the next week point out the<br/>
chief objects of interest in the magni-<br/>
ficent landscape as viewed from that<br/>
point of observation. Unforseen and<br/>
unavoidable circumstances have pre-<br/>
vented us doing so, until now, in the<br/>
providence of God, we find ourselves,<br/>
after an absence of more than six<br/>
weeks, transported "body soul and<br/>
spirit" to the same spot, and prepared<br/>
to make some amends for our past<br/>
failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We design to describe the scenery,<br/>
now before us, much in the order of<br/>
the impressions we conceive to be<br/>
most commonly made on the minds<br/>
of European spectators after having<br/>
the first time reached the top of the<br/>
observatory in which we now write.<br/>
And the first object of admiration that<br/>
will strike you is the paddy fields.<br/>
It is so because of their wonderful<br/>
uniqueness. You have seen nothing<br/>
in all your travels like them, nor ever<br/>
heard any description of them which<br/>
half equals the reality; nor have we<br/>
the vanity to think that we even, now<br/>
in full view of the whole panorama,<br/>
aided by a clear atmosphere and a good<br/>
glass, shall do it adequate justice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fields are so level and smooth,<br/>
without a knoll, or stump, or stone, as<br/>
to defy a parallel being found in all<br/>
the world. They are laid out into<br/>
squares, parallelograms, acute an ob-<br/>
tuse angles, generally with straight<br/>
lines, by means of narrow embank-<br/>
ments from 2 to 3 feet high in lots of<br/>
various sizes from a tenth to a quarter<br/>
of an acre each. Most of these lots<br/>
have on them one, two, or more pal-<br/>
myra trees in various stages of growth<br/>
from 6 to 50 feet high.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The condition of the vast paddy<br/>
prairies as seen from this stand point,<br/>
is of course quite different in different<br/>
months of the year, producing a cor-<br/>
responding change in the general scen-<br/>
ery. In February, when the fields are<br/>
all dry and destitute of green grass as<br/>
well as of green paddy, the palmyra<br/>
trees, whose leaves are always of a dark<br/>
green color, studding all the fields,<br/>
appear to their best advantage in con-<br/>
trast with the sered and yellowish face<br/>
of the lots in which they stand. In<br/>
the latter part of May, soon after the<br/>
first rains have fallen, which have resur-<br/>
rected the dead grass all over the field,<br/>
and caused the scattered kernals of rice<br/>
left in the fields at the last harvest to<br/>
sprout and shoot up their tender<br/>
blades, make the lots appear like so<br/>
many beautiful lawns. In June, you<br/>
will see some of these lots beginning<br/>
to be ploughed and otherwise prepared<br/>
for another crop; for the paddy which<br/>
springs up spontaneously must be up-<br/>
rooted as it will not produce a harvest<br/>
of any value among all the grass and<br/>
weeds that spring up with it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our present view of these paddy<br/>
fields is on the 23d July 1866. Near-<br/>
ly half of the lots are carpeted with<br/>
green paddy and grass of various hues<br/>
from that of the darkest to the lightest<br/>
pea-green; the other half, variously in-<br/>
terspersed among the others, and being<br/>
entirely or nearly covered with water<br/>
shine like glass. Some of these appear<br/>
clear as crystal; some of a yellowish or<br/>
turbid color; some look like soft yel-<br/>
lowish mud a little ragged as roads much<br/>
used in a very wet time appear, but<br/>
without any ruts or furrows; some of<br/>
the lots have the glare of the water<br/>
a good deal removed by grass which<br/>
the water has not yet entirely over-<br/>
topped. These latter are mostly such<br/>
as have not been ploughed; the<br/>
others have both been ploughed and<br/>
planted so that the paddy, standing<br/>
three or four sprouts in a place ten<br/>
inches apart, reaches a little above the<br/>
surface of the water, which is a foot or<br/>
more deep all over the lots. Those lots<br/>
that appear muddy and a little ragged<br/>
have recently been ploughed, but not<br/>
smoothed down by harrowing. Those<br/>
that present a uniform turbid appear-<br/>
ance have been harrowed and prepar-<br/>
ed for transplanting rice into them,<br/>
and those which are entirely covered<br/>
with a thick pea-green carpet, are lots<br/>
in which sprouted rice, having been<br/>
sown, has come up as thickly as it can<br/>
stand, and is awaiting the proper time<br/>
for being transplanted regularly in the<br/>
lots that are now being prepared for<br/>
them. This kia—-for such it is called,<br/>
is now from 18 to 24 inches tall, but<br/>
has the appearance from where we sit<br/>
of being quite short and perfectly un-<br/>
broken in its surface.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You hear from all quarters the men<br/>
driving their oxen and buffaloes saying<br/>
hat and t’m—that is haw and gee, and<br/>
the ploughmen are scolding their teams<br/>
and using the vilest language to them.<br/>
Those near the base of the mount you<br/>
can see without a glass like dwarfs<br/>
following a pair of small oxen or<br/>
single buffalos, holding their ploughs<br/>
and a whip with one hand, and the<br/>
ox reins in the other, with a large<br/>
knife or short sword in a wooden<br/>
scabbord bound around their waists.<br/>
They are generally fully clothed in<br/>
dark blue, and wear sometimes a sim-<br/>
ple palm leaf hat unbraided, sometimes<br/>
a cloth tied around the head like a<br/>
turban, and are bare-foot, wading half-<br/>
knee deep in water and mud. And<br/>
these men, let our readers fully under-<br/>
stand, are in these circumstances, ac-<br/>
tually breaking up the fallow ground<br/>
in preparation for a new rice crop, and<br/>
you will now and then see men fishing<br/>
with a net in the same lot in which<br/>
they are ploughing. We observe<br/>
some of them following a harrow<br/>
drawn by a yoke of oxen or a single<br/>
buffalo; and what is very singular to<br/>
us, their harrows have handles, and the<br/>
men take hold of them with both<br/>
hands, and every now then lift them up<br/>
to clear off the grass from their wooden<br/>
teeth. You generally see nothing for<br/>
them to harrow but tarbed water; but<br/>
sometimes there is the appearance of a<br/>
slight roughness on the surface of the<br/>
water which is harrowed down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are quite disappointed in not<br/>
being able to see any person either with<br/>
or without our glass, transplanting rice.<br/>
A good proportion of the fields seem<br/>
to have been prepared for this next<br/>
step in rice farming, and the usual sea-<br/>
son for doing this is certainly fully<br/>
come and going rapidly past. Per-<br/>
haps the water in the several lots is<br/>
not yet quite deep enough, and possi-<br/>
bly in some it may be too deep. We<br/>
hear that the rice in some fields that<br/>
had been planted a week or two since,<br/>
has been destroyed by too much<br/>
water.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These fields viewed from our present<br/>
stand point in the latter part of the<br/>
month of September will have greatly<br/>
changed in their appearance. The<br/>
watery lots will then have nearly or<br/>
quite all disappeared, and in their<br/>
places the most beautiful fields of liv-<br/>
ing green of various hues will be dis-<br/>
played. They are then covered with<br/>
paddy in many stages of progress and<br/>
shades of color from the delicate yel-<br/>
lowish green of recently transplanted<br/>
rice to that of rice nearly ready to ear.<br/>
The dividing embankments of the lots<br/>
will then appear less prominent, yet<br/>
clearly discernible, and afford a plea-<br/>
sant resting place and guiding lines to<br/>
the eyes as they wander over the<br/>
thousands of acres they behold.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The palmyra trees are in Sept. some-<br/>
what shorn of their glory by contrast<br/>
with the vast fields of the liveliest<br/>
green which envelop them. Still<br/>
they impart a pleasing variety to the<br/>
entire landscape. As you extend<br/>
your vision far in the distance, these<br/>
sugar palms appear to become much<br/>
more thickly set, so that they finally<br/>
seem to form one unbroken forest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next view which most impres-<br/>
ses a European from the mount is the<br/>
vast sea-level forests to the South and<br/>
the East, extending in either direction<br/>
from 12 to 20 miles. Many of the<br/>
trees are doubtless palmyra trees, but<br/>
the greater part must be of many<br/>
other species common to this country,<br/>
as the mango, the tamarind, the oil<br/>
tree, the bamboo, the tabaak, etc.<br/>
The teak seems not to be indigenous<br/>
to this part of Siam. These forests ap-<br/>
pear to be almost an unbroken timber<br/>
jungle, but are only such in appearance.<br/>
There are many villages and vast<br/>
tracts of paddy fields hidden among<br/>
them. The town of P'etchaburee,<br/>
even, which is less than a mile to the<br/>
East, is but little seen from this mount<br/>
on account of the many trees that are<br/>
about it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next objects of admiration are<br/>
the several little mounts which you<br/>
see near by and afar off, standing up<br/>
out of the sea-level plains like little is-<br/>
lets out of the sea. The one more<br/>
particularly interesting, aside from<br/>
that on which you stand, is the one<br/>
a mile at the West called Ków Kadie-<br/>
it, which appears to be a twin-sister of<br/>
the one on which we now write-—the<br/>
palace mount. It is about 400 feet<br/>
high, two miles or more in circumfer-<br/>
ence, extending up boldly on all sides<br/>
to its summit, and is composed of the<br/>
most ragged and forked limestone rocks,<br/>
thrown up in all probability, by a jet<br/>
of volcanic eruption in a semifluid<br/>
state, and which, by rapidly cooling,<br/>
has left them in the wildest state of<br/>
disorder. In the progress of ages a<br/>
soil has been generated among those<br/>
rocks, which now brings forth much<br/>
beautiful shrubbery, and some trees of<br/>
very dignified dimensions. It would<br/>
seem that all the mountains in this re-<br/>
gion, especially the more isolated ones<br/>
are of the same origin. They are all<br/>
now so clothed with verdure, that<br/>
their original wildness and disorder is<br/>
scarcely discernible from the view we<br/>
here have of them. They abound in<br/>
caves, and most of the caves have been<br/>
consecrated to Buddhism by placing<br/>
multitudes of idols in them. Ków<br/>
Looang two miles at the north is<br/>
another sister mount of more humble<br/>
dimensions but dignified by the grandest<br/>
idol caverns the country affords. There<br/>
are several other small isolated mounts<br/>
at the North and at the South from 2 to<br/>
10 miles distant. One of them at the<br/>
N. E. is remarkable for having a slen-<br/>
der base, apparently not more than ¼<br/>
of a mile in diameter and extending<br/>
up in the form of a sugar loaf from 4<br/>
to 500 feet. At the West, S. W. and<br/>
South your eyes behold magnificent<br/>
ranges of mountains, the nearest of<br/>
which may be 30 miles distant, and<br/>
the farthest from 80 to 100 miles. The<br/>
most distant at the West, form the<br/>
boundary lines between Burmah and<br/>
Siam. The most distant at the South<br/>
is a range in Siamese territory called<br/>
by the Siamese Sam roi-yawt, that is<br/>
the mountain range with 300 peaks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In looking to the E. and N. E. over<br/>
a level plain of from 10 to 12 miles in<br/>
width you see the gulf of Siam.<br/>
When the air is clear vessels may be<br/>
seen without a glass sailing far out on<br/>
her bosom; and the highlands on the<br/>
islands of Koh-see-ch'ang on the eas-<br/>
tern side of the gulf, and the moun-<br/>
tains of Bangplasoi are often discern-<br/>
ible. We can this morning just discern<br/>
without a glass the peaks of an island<br/>
in the direction of S. S. E.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are now again compelled to take<br/>
leave of our readers, hoping by anoth-<br/>
er week to meet them again on the<br/>
same delightful "mount of vision," and<br/>
point out to them many very interest-<br/>
ing things in connection with the roy-<br/>
al country palace on the mount.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Siamese bark-intine<br/>
"Hera," arrived from Hongkong on<br/>
the 22nd inst. Rev. Jonathan Wilson<br/>
and wife, and Miss Field. Mr. Wil-<br/>
son belongs to the Presbyterian Mis-<br/>
sion, and Miss Field joins the Baptist<br/>
Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Hera" spoke the Siamese ship<br/>
"Conquerer" 30 miles S. W. of Polo<br/>
Obi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Correction.—In the notice of the<br/>
U.S. Consulate in one of our last issues,<br/>
we stated that one of the Consuls was<br/>
a machinist. We have since learned<br/>
that such is not strictly the fact. The<br/>
person alluded to claims to be more<br/>
correctly an artist and inventor, having<br/>
devoted many years to these labors,<br/>
but more particularly to the latter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor—In your notice of the<br/>
grounds of the American Consulate<br/>
you failed to convey to the public a cor-<br/>
rect idea of the place. You should<br/>
not have omitted the fact, that in ad-<br/>
dition to the row of Banyan trees, and<br/>
the two venerable Tamarinds—that<br/>
eighteen other varieties of shade trees<br/>
beautified the grounds—and that pro-<br/>
bably the best and greatest variety of<br/>
shrubs and flowers adorn the premises<br/>
of any residence in the city. And in-<br/>
stead of 150 feet front, the lot is 250<br/>
feet by 400 deep, and the house from<br/>
floor to ceiling in the second story is<br/>
16 feet instead of 13 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours &c.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor—Were I an artist, and<br/>
your humble little sheet "The Bang-<br/>
kok Illustrated" or Pictorial, I might<br/>
give you some sketches which would<br/>
enhance materially your circulation<br/>
abroad, and together we might edify<br/>
and astonish the world at large: but as<br/>
neither of the above contingences ex-<br/>
sists, it is useless to speculate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Saturday July 21st was rather a ga-<br/>
la day at Samutta prakan, or more com-<br/>
monly called Paknam, and not unfre-<br/>
quently by Europeans, Pickenham.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was throughout one of those clear<br/>
bright days, which we seldom find here<br/>
at this season of the year—no threat-<br/>
ening cloud, no pouring rain, no mur-<br/>
muring thunder. The breeze from the<br/>
South west was just sufficiently strong<br/>
to raise a gentle ripple upon the surface<br/>
of the water, and to keep things gen-<br/>
erally cool, but not strong enough to<br/>
get up a sea and make it unpleasant.<br/>
Koh See-ch'ang loomed up like a dia-<br/>
mond set in the Southern horizon,<br/>
and the Bangplasoi mountains in the<br/>
South east lifted up their lofty heads,<br/>
piercing the blue ether above.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The premises of Messrs Dyer & Co.<br/>
were befittingly decorated with signals,<br/>
and Captain Dyer himself was seated<br/>
as umpire. The regatta fleet, seven<br/>
in number, was lying opposite, await-<br/>
ing the signal to start. They rejoiced<br/>
in such names as the Plunger, Mr. Car-<br/>
ter—the Mosquito, Capt. Peterson—the<br/>
Laura and others whose names I did<br/>
not learn. Among the rest was a neat<br/>
little yatch, said to be the property of<br/>
His Royal Highness Prince George.<br/>
The Foam, which at the last regatta<br/>
capsized with almost serious results,<br/>
was on this occasion commanded by<br/>
Capt. Shannon, but on account of some<br/>
unfortunate delay, did not arrive until<br/>
about five minutes after the signal was<br/>
given, and consequently was not in the<br/>
race. The yatch Kestrel having no com-<br/>
petitor, did not enter the contest, but<br/>
with some other amateurs sailed along.<br/>
Signal boats were placed by the sunken<br/>
junks at the upper end of the fort,<br/>
to indicate the turning points. At 1½ <br/>
o'clock A. M., the signal gun was fired<br/>
by the umpire, and all sails were set.<br/>
The boats started opposite the umpire's<br/>
station, sailing up to the upper signal<br/>
boat, and rounding that, and beating<br/>
asok, and down to the lower signal<br/>
cbbt which was also rounded, and thence<br/>
back to the place of starting. The<br/>
Plunger was the first to round the up-<br/>
per boat, and she retained the advan-<br/>
tage thus gained throughout, and con-<br/>
sequently was the winner. It is<br/>
but justice to the Plunger to say,<br/>
that she is an American bottom and<br/>
centre board. Next to the Plun-<br/>
ger, came the Musquito. As to the<br/>
comparative standing of the other com-<br/>
petitors, I regret to be unable to re-<br/>
port.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The seekers of pleasure on the oc-<br/>
casion consisted of two steamers well<br/>
loaded. Part of the community, had<br/>
secured the fine new steamer, belong-<br/>
ing to the estate of the late Phya Mon-<br/>
tree, and called the Morning Star,<br/>
which was well laden with passengers,<br/>
and good things. His Excellency the<br/>
Prime Minister had also placed his<br/>
excellent and swift steamer Volant at<br/>
the disposal of part of the European<br/>
community. He had also supplied her<br/>
with provisions, and every thing ne-<br/>
cessary for comfort and pleasure, and<br/>
enjoined upon them, to shew hospital-<br/>
ity to all Europeans with whom they<br/>
came in contact. His Excellency's<br/>
brass band was also on board and af-<br/>
forded excellent music. The Volant<br/>
therefore was rather the attraction of<br/>
the day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours &c.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
QUAM PROXIME
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—I observed in your last<br/>
issue a notice of the young prince<br/>
Som-detcli Chow-fa Chulalonkorn enter-<br/>
ing into the priesthood, and think-<br/>
ing that perhaps a little more full<br/>
account of the affair might not be<br/>
without interest to some of your rea-<br/>
ders, I will now, with your consent,<br/>
attempt something of the kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think that it was a mistake that<br/>
the prince was then entering or even<br/>
preparing to enter the priesthood. It<br/>
was, if I am correctly informed, a<br/>
ceremony for his initiation into the<br/>
Buddhistical order called Nane.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An invitation was given some days<br/>
before in an autograph circular of His<br/>
Majesty to all the foreign residents in<br/>
this city to be present on the two<br/>
days of the ceremony. Those whose<br/>
pleasure it was to accept the invita-<br/>
tion, assembled on Wednesday the 18th<br/>
inst. in a salla out-side of the palace<br/>
gate, where seats were provided for<br/>
them, and at the appointed hour were<br/>
conducted to the grand audience hall,<br/>
at the porch of which they were met<br/>
by His Majesty and children with<br/>
cordial greetings. But Somdetcli Chow-<br/>
fa, the lion of the day, appeared a little<br/>
later, and was carried in a radan di-<br/>
rectly into the audience hall. His<br/>
Majesty, the princes and princesses,<br/>
and all the rest of us comprising con-<br/>
suls, merchants, missionaries, govern-<br/>
ment interpreters and secretaries, la-<br/>
dies and children followed the train His<br/>
Majesty did not ascend the throne on<br/>
this occasion, but made himself one<br/>
among us, sitting down on a mat a lit-<br/>
tle distance from the Somdetcli<br/>
Chowfa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Presently he arose and perambula-<br/>
ted the hall, directing the ceremonies,<br/>
the chief of which were to encircle the<br/>
Prince with light and blessings. This<br/>
was done by a circle of princes, nobles,<br/>
and lords extending entirely around<br/>
the great hall in front of the throne.<br/>
The ladies were concealed by a curtain<br/>
in a little recess at the right hand of<br/>
the throne. Lighted candles were<br/>
passed from one to the other in the cir-<br/>
cle round and round, craving, as it was<br/>
understood, a silent blessing upon the<br/>
Prince. The scene was one of touch-<br/>
ing interest. A meekr and more un-<br/>
assuming youth it seemed to me I had<br/>
never seen in any station, and yet he<br/>
was dignified and perfectly self posses-<br/>
sed. What was said to the prince I was<br/>
unable to hear. No christian heart<br/>
who witnessed the ceremony could re-<br/>
frain from craving a blessing, and es-<br/>
pecially divine light upon the mind<br/>
and heart of the Prince. After the<br/>
candles had completed their fifth evo-<br/>
lution, that part of the ceremonies<br/>
closed, and the guests all retired to the<br/>
dining hall, the ladies having been pre-<br/>
viously treated to tea. Of course<br/>
on an occasion like this it matters lit-<br/>
tle what are the viands so there is hear-<br/>
ty good cheer, which was certainly not<br/>
wanting at this festival; Toasts were<br/>
given to His Majesty, to Somdetch<br/>
Chowfa, and to the ladies in full voices,<br/>
and silently, as I suppose, from the latter<br/>
to the gentlemen. Thus ended the cere-<br/>
monies of the first day when the com-<br/>
pany retired to their homes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second day of the festival<br/>
commenced with a procession, by which<br/>
the Prince was escorted to the royal<br/>
temple, Wat P'ra kaao. Few if any<br/>
of the Europeans were in time to wit-<br/>
ness it, though some of them had re-<br/>
linquished their breakfast for that pur-<br/>
pose. The crowd was great in all parts<br/>
of the temple grounds, and became more<br/>
dense as we approached the entrance<br/>
of the main building. Some of us al-<br/>
most regretted that we had undertaken<br/>
to gain access to the most holy place<br/>
of the ceremony, where His Majesty<br/>
and royal son, Somdetch Chowfa, had<br/>
begun the dressing exercises. But as<br/>
it was not European or American cus-<br/>
tom to give way to such difficulties,<br/>
we proceeded to thread our way among<br/>
priests, nobles, and officers of all<br/>
grades, treading with the greatest care<br/>
lest we should crush pearls which<br/>
strewed the way in the form of fin-<br/>
gers and toes, or soil their rich robes.<br/>
But time and perseverance brought us<br/>
to the end of this scene, and we were<br/>
congratulating ourselves that we had<br/>
given no great offence by giving every<br/>
now and then a brush of a royal or no-<br/>
bleman's head almost in contact with<br/>
the pavement, if not with mother<br/>
earth—-such being the universal native<br/>
custom of prostration in the presence<br/>
of their king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then a curtain was drawn, where to<br/>
our astonishment we observed that our<br/>
most difficult task of moving through<br/>
a dense crowd thus prostrated without<br/>
shocking any one of them by a tread<br/>
on a finger, or toe, or a touch of a<br/>
head held sacred, had but just commen-<br/>
ced. Delighted as we were to see be-<br/>
fore us the fairest and noblest speci-<br/>
mens of Siamese royalty as closely<br/>
compacted as it were possible, we could<br/>
not but feel extremely anxious lest by<br/>
some mis-step we should unavoidably<br/>
offend some of them. But we<br/>
were on our way to royalty, and we<br/>
felt that we must take the royal road<br/>
thither. So we began bowing, and<br/>
stooping and begging pardon from in-<br/>
stinct for what seemed to be, in our cir-<br/>
cumstances, a matter of necessity. Had<br/>
there been any other way of access to<br/>
the place, how gladly would we have<br/>
availed ourselves of it! but not for our<br/>
own sakes, for nothing could have<br/>
been more interesting to us than that<br/>
group of smiling and wondering faces<br/>
many of whom we recognized as old<br/>
friends, though we had not seen them<br/>
for years. We hope and trust the<br/>
time will not be far distant when Si-<br/>
amese ladies will be allowed to sit in<br/>
chairs, even in the presence of their<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Presently another curtain is drawn,<br/>
and we are all in a worshipping assem-<br/>
bly. There sits His Majesty, and there<br/>
the Prince candidate for induction into<br/>
the order of the Names, and there<br/>
the Prime ministers, nobles, priests and<br/>
people, Europeans and Americans, la-<br/>
dies as well as gentlemen, all on a<br/>
common level, with His Majesty,sitting<br/>
flat down on rugs, mats, or carpet.<br/>
This was a leveling of rank and station<br/>
with which even republicans of the<br/>
most ultra stamp could not be pleased.<br/>
As for ourselves we would much pre-<br/>
fer to have had a leveling upward 16<br/>
or 18 inches at least, so that each<br/>
might have packed his feet under him,<br/>
instead of being obliged to point them<br/>
out backwards towards the faces of<br/>
those close behind. Why, it seem-<br/>
ed most barbarous to put ones feet in<br/>
the faces of fellow-guests in that way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great object of the 2nd day's<br/>
ceremony was to clothe the Prince in<br/>
all due formality with the robes of a<br/>
Name, and to invest him by a good<br/>
deal of religious service with every<br/>
needed Buddhistical blessing as such.<br/>
These services being over, a breakfast<br/>
was given to the 50 or more officiating<br/>
priests in their holy place. His Majesty<br/>
and his yellow robed son drank tea or<br/>
coffee by themselves in the same hall.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the priests had finished their<br/>
breakfast and dinner united, between<br/>
eleven and twelve o'clock, there came<br/>
upon the stage another ceremony of<br/>
presenting the new made name with<br/>
a variety of articles needed in the<br/>
practice of that order. It seemed to<br/>
us that many of them were equally<br/>
needed in the life of a priest as well as<br/>
of a name. It is probable that these<br/>
were presented to the Prince that he<br/>
might have the privilege and the mer-<br/>
it of giving them to the fraternity of<br/>
the priests in the temple Baswaneawate<br/>
in which he is to serve 3 months as a<br/>
monk. All the presents thus made,<br/>
whether designed for the one on the<br/>
other order are considered irrevoca-<br/>
bly devoted to sacred purposes, and<br/>
cannot by any means never become<br/>
personal property. But there were<br/>
many valuable articles given the prince<br/>
on this occasion which we suppose<br/>
were designed especially for the<br/>
prince's own personal use. In making<br/>
these presents almost all classes par-<br/>
ticipated. First came His Majesty<br/>
with his gifts, then His Majesty's child-<br/>
ren, then the Prince's uncles, aunts,<br/>
and cousins, then the prime ministers,<br/>
and then Chinese and Mohamedan<br/>
merchants, etc. The occasion was em-<br/>
braced by a Chinese nobleman of pre-<br/>
senting each of his Majesty's children<br/>
with a gold watch.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the gifts had all been present-<br/>
ed and removed to the outer Court, a<br/>
number of the brothers of Somdetech<br/>
Chowfa, arrayed in full state costume<br/>
loaded with gold and precious stones<br/>
appeared upon the stage for the enter-<br/>
tainment of the assembly in a game of<br/>
fencing, in Siamese style, and displayed<br/>
a good, degree of dexterity and skill<br/>
for lads of their age. It was a pleasing<br/>
evidence, that while their minds had<br/>
been thoroughly disciplined under Eu-<br/>
ropean teaching, their physical exercise<br/>
had not been neglected. Not only<br/>
were the spectators much interested in<br/>
the game, but His Majesty also, so that<br/>
he was constrained to lay aside for the<br/>
moment the dignity of a monarch for the<br/>
pleasure and pride of a father, in evin-<br/>
cing lively sympathy with his little sons.<br/>
Some of the spectators may be dispos-<br/>
ed to criticize this condescension and<br/>
playfulness of His Majesty on the oc-<br/>
casion; but I confess I am not one of<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having finished the game, their<br/>
royal sire then presented each of the<br/>
actors with a purse of money, and the<br/>
Chinese nobleman above spoken of,<br/>
gave each a gold watch. This was the<br/>
finishing stroke of the two days fes-<br/>
tival. How the assembly managed<br/>
to get to their homes in the rain, which<br/>
just then came on, I will not attempt<br/>
to show. {{< news/indent4 >}} SIGMA
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Errors of Speech.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The newspaper writers never allow<br/>
us to go anywhere, we always pro-<br/>
ceed. A man going home, is set down<br/>
as 'an individual proceeding to his<br/>
residence.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We never eat, but always partake,<br/>
even though we happen to eat up the<br/>
whole of the thing mentioned. In<br/>
court, counsel asks a witness, 'Did<br/>
you have anything to eat there?' 'Yes.'<br/>
'What was it?' 'A bun.' Now go<br/>
to the report in the paper, and you'll<br/>
be sure to find that witness confes[?]ed<br/>
to having partaken of a bun,' as if<br/>
some one else shared it with him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We never hear of a place; it is al-<br/>
ways locality. Nothing is ever placed,<br/>
but always located. 'Most of the<br/>
people of the place' would be a terri-<br/>
ble vulgarism to this gentlemen; it<br/>
must be 'the majority of the residents<br/>
in the locality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then no one live in rooms, but al-<br/>
ways in 'apartments.' 'Good lodg-<br/>
ings' would be far too meagre; so we<br/>
have 'eligible apartments.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another horrible word, which is<br/>
fast getting into our language through<br/>
the provincial press, is to 'eventuate.'<br/>
If they want to say that a man spent<br/>
his money till he was ruined, they tell<br/>
us that his unprecedented extravaga-<br/>
ance eventuated in the total dispersion<br/>
of his property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Avocation' is another monster<br/>
patronized by these writers. Now<br/>
avocation, which of itself is an inno-<br/>
cent word enough, means the being<br/>
called away from something. We<br/>
might say, 'He could not do it, having<br/>
avocations elsewhere.' But in our<br/>
newspapers, avocation means a man's<br/>
calling in life. If a shoe-maker at his<br/>
work is struck by lightning, we read<br/>
that 'while pursuing his avocation,<br/>
the electric fluid penetrated the un-<br/>
happy man's person.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If I have to complain to the post-<br/>
office, that a letter legibly directed to<br/>
me at Canterbury has been missent to<br/>
Caermarthen, I get a regular red-tape<br/>
reply, beginning: 'The letter alluded<br/>
to by you.' Now I did not allude to<br/>
the letter at all; I mentioned it as<br/>
plainly as I could.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is an expression creeping into<br/>
general use which cannot be justified<br/>
in grammar, 'a superior man;' 'a very<br/>
inferior person.' We all know what<br/>
is meant; and a certain sort of defence<br/>
may be set up for it by calling it ellip-<br/>
tical: by saying that the comparatives<br/>
are to be filled up by inserting 'to<br/>
most men,' or the like. But with all<br/>
its convenience, and all the defence<br/>
which can be set up for it, this way of<br/>
speaking is not desirable; and if fol-<br/>
lowed out as a precedent, cannot but<br/>
vulgarize and deteriorate our language.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We seem rather unfortunate in our<br/>
designations for our men of ability.<br/>
For another term by which we describe<br/>
them, 'talented,' is about as bad as<br/>
possible. What is it? It looks like<br/>
a participle. From what verb? Fancy<br/>
such a verb as 'to talent!' Coleridge<br/>
sometimes cries out against this news-<br/>
paper word, and says, Imagine other<br/>
participles formed by this analogy, and<br/>
men being said to be pennied, shilling-<br/>
ed, or pounded. He perhaps forgot<br/>
that, by an equal abuse, men are said<br/>
to be 'moneyed' men, or as we some-<br/>
times see it spelt (as if the word itself<br/>
were not bad enough without making<br/>
it worse by false orthography,)<br/>
'monied.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another formation of this kind,<br/>
'gifted,' is at present very much in<br/>
vogue. Every man whose parts are<br/>
to be praised, is a gifted author, or<br/>
speaker or preacher. Nay, sometimes<br/>
a very odd transfer is made, and the<br/>
pen with which the author writes is<br/>
said to be 'gifted,' instead of himself."<br/>
—Dean Alford.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Moonless Month.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The month of February, 1866, which<br/>
is now gone, will be marked in the astronomi-<br/>
cal calendar as the month which had no<br/>
full moon. January had two full moons,<br/>
and March has had two; but February<br/>
had none. Of course, this peculiar con-<br/>
juncture of periods that makes the full<br/>
moon show her face but a few hours before<br/>
the month comes in, and again a few hours<br/>
after the month goes out, is a rare thing in<br/>
nature; but HOW rare, do you suppose,<br/>
gentle reader? It has not occurred before<br/>
in your lifetime nor ours—not since the discov-<br/>
ery of America by Columbus; no, nor since<br/>
the Christian era, nor since the fall of<br/>
Adam, nor since the creation of the world,<br/>
unless that be placed back myriads of<br/>
years. And it will not occur again, ac-<br/>
cording to the computation of astronomers,<br/>
for TWO MILLION AND A HALF OF YEARS<br/>
—-or probably NEVER—for before that cycle<br/>
of ages shall be completed, it is our Chris-<br/>
tian faith that time will be ended, and the<br/>
solar system be destroyed.—-EVANGELIST.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Longevity.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have the impression that 70 is the<br/>
appointed period of human life. But the<br/>
average is far short of it. And many<br/>
might, and ought, to live far beyond it,<br/>
who perish, as we say, PREMATURELY.<br/>
Dr. Haller gathered up a thousand cases<br/>
of men who had lived to be a hundred years<br/>
old and over—-twenty-nine of these lived<br/>
to be from 120 to 130, and fifteen of them<br/>
from 130 to 140. Henry Jenkins, a York-<br/>
shire fisherman, died in December, 1670,<br/>
at the age of 169. Thomas Parr is the<br/>
most celebrated of very old men. He was<br/>
first married at the age of 80, again at 122,<br/>
and died, in 1635, at 152. He was a farm-<br/>
er, and up to the age of 130 was able to<br/>
dig, plough, and thrash. Dr. Hervey, the<br/>
famous surgeon, dissected him after death,<br/>
and found no appearance of decay in any<br/>
organ. Demetrius Gradowsky died in Po-<br/>
land in 1880 at the age of 169. Petrarch<br/>
Carstan died in 1724 at the good old age<br/>
of 125. His biographer says of him:—He<br/>
was born at Jofroach, a village four miles<br/>
from Temeswar. A few days before his<br/>
death he walked four miles to beg. His<br/>
eyes were much inflamed, but he still en-<br/>
joyed a little sight. His hair and beard<br/>
were of a greenish-white colour, like<br/>
mouldy bread, and he had a few of his<br/>
teeth remaining. His food was chiefly milk,<br/>
and certain cakes called COLLATSCHEN,<br/>
together with a good glass of brandy, such<br/>
as is made in the country." Another<br/>
family in Hungary, by the name of Boven,<br/>
attained great age. The father 172, the<br/>
wife and mother 164. They had been<br/>
married 142 years, when their youngest<br/>
child was 115. In 1844, at Kieff, a man<br/>
died at the age of 152. A few years ago<br/>
a peasant died in Russia, aged 137 years,<br/>
10 months, and 11 days. He had 32 chil-<br/>
dren, one of whom, a daughter, was still<br/>
living, at the age of 100. He retained<br/>
the use of his faculties to the last day of<br/>
his life, and was very cheerful. In 1830<br/>
there were in these United States 2500<br/>
persons a hundred or more years old, the<br/>
oldest being 140. This was an Indian<br/>
woman in North Carolina. Baily, in his<br/>
Annals of Longevity, mentions the case of<br/>
Thomas Cam, whom the parish register of<br/>
Shoreditch affirms to have died in 1588 at<br/>
the age of 207—-and the St. PETERSBURG<br/>
GAZETTE speaks of a man who died in 1812,<br/>
aged 200. But what are all these cases,<br/>
compared with the patriarchs? Think of<br/>
Adam, 930; Seth, 912; Enos, 905; Canaan,<br/>
920; Jared, 962; Noah, 956; and Methu-<br/>
selah, 969! Why is the life of man so<br/>
much shorter now than then? Why do<br/>
some men live so much longer than others<br/>
now? Is there any reason why the ordi-<br/>
nary life of man should not be greatly<br/>
prolonged? We cannot in one generation<br/>
overcome the inherited degeneracies that<br/>
reduce our years; but the laws of health<br/>
are now so well understood, that we might<br/>
in a few generations, bring back a race of<br/>
longer-lived, more enduring and useful<br/>
men, than have lived since the flood. This<br/>
is worth thinking of; and if no general<br/>
reform can be wrought, it is still in the<br/>
power of any household to initiate the<br/>
work, and set a noble example. God<br/>
would be well pleased with the effort.—-<br/>
THE PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thomas Carlylo.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He is a genius and an artist—a won-<br/>
derful word-painter of what he sees and<br/>
knows, but not a philosopher in any<br/>
sense, much less a reformer, and scarcely<br/>
a man, or at best a very inferior style of<br/>
man. Carlyle’s earlier books, the Sartor<br/>
Resartus, for instance, and the essay on<br/>
Burns, reveal some degree of human<br/>
sympathy : there are passages in them of<br/>
deep and earnest pathos ; and these no<br/>
doubt acquired him the almost universal<br/>
admiration and hope he once excited.<br/>
The world hailed with delight the rising<br/>
of a new orb, not only with glory but<br/>
healing on its wings. A passionate eulo-<br/>
gist of sincere men, he was supposed to<br/>
be sincere himself and much good was<br/>
augured from the literary career of a<br/>
man who united to such varied learning<br/>
and such brilliant power, generous hu-<br/>
manitary purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the intellectual arrogance of Carl-<br/>
yle, and his want of heart, betrayed him<br/>
soon into a false worship. It was no long-<br/>
er the sincere men he admired, but the<br/>
strong men, the men of moral force that<br/>
is, of will, doers and not thinkers, wheth-<br/>
er their doing happened to be right or<br/>
wrong. The transition from Burns and<br/>
Goethe was through Johnson to Mirabeau,<br/>
one of the foulest and most treacherous<br/>
creatures that ever breathed, but whose<br/>
energy of vociferation and action com-<br/>
pletely won Carlyle's heart. In his<br/>
“French Revolution ” he began to gloat<br/>
like a fiend over the destructive forces at<br/>
work ; he seemed to revel in uproar and<br/>
blood during that wild Walpurgis night<br/>
of ferocity ; and throughout his book<br/>
there is scarcely a pitying word, scarcely<br/>
a sob or a sigh over the awful sufferings<br/>
of the men and women who passed<br/>
through the fiery furnace. An imperson-<br/>
ation of the old pagan idea of fate, he<br/>
was as impassive to the dread scenes he<br/>
lit up with the lurid torch of hell as if<br/>
they had been only phantasma gorical.<br/>
His “Cromwell” was equally hard and<br/>
heartless, and his latest work, in which<br/>
he makes a sort of bronze military man,<br/>
utterly destitute of human affections and<br/>
the ordinary human passions his hero, is<br/>
repulsive in its metallic glitter and hard-<br/>
ness. Carlyle, indeed, has become such<br/>
a blind worshipper of Force that nothing<br/>
gentle, or sweet, or soft now touches<br/>
him ; he is, in fact, quite skeptical of the<br/>
existence of that side of human nature,<br/>
and when it turns up he treats it as a<br/>
proper topic for his huge Brobdignagian<br/>
laughter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
*
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To a person so constituted human de-<br/>
stiny has no meaning but an eternal strug-<br/>
gle between the strong and the weak, or<br/>
rather a struggle in which the strong will<br/>
survive and the weak go to the wall.<br/>
The universe will become what the Old<br/>
Norse fighters believed their Walhalla to<br/>
be—-a place of endless combats and<br/>
drinking bouts. Therefore persons hav-<br/>
ing a hope of society are infinitely dis-<br/>
tasteful to Carlyle.—-Americans in parti-<br/>
cular, in whom the spontaneous life has<br/>
been developed over the civic or moral<br/>
life. Despairing of man and society, in-<br/>
deed, he shuts himself up in his conceit,<br/>
and growls and rails.—-N. Y. Post.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Eating, and What Comes of it.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tell me what a nation eats, what is its<br/>
diet, and I will tell you what is its liter-<br/>
ature, its religious belief, and so forth.<br/>
Solid, practical John Bull is a mutton,<br/>
beef, and pudding eater. He drinks<br/>
strong ale or beer, and thinks beer. He<br/>
drives fat oxen, and is himself fat. He is<br/>
no idealist in philosophy. He hates gen-<br/>
eralization and abstract thought. He is<br/>
for the real and concrete.—-Plain, una-<br/>
dorned Protestantism is most to the taste<br/>
of the middle classes of Great Britain.<br/>
Music, sculpture, and painting add not<br/>
their charms to the Englishman’s dull<br/>
and respectable devotions. Cross the<br/>
channel and behold his whilom hereditary<br/>
foeman, but now firm ally, the French-<br/>
man! He is a dainty feeder and the<br/>
most accomplished of cooks. He ether-<br/>
izes ordinary fish, flesh and fowl by<br/>
his exquisite cuisine. He educates the<br/>
palate to a daintiness whereof the gross<br/>
feeding John Bull never dreamed. He<br/>
extracts the finest flavors and quintes-<br/>
sential principles from flesh and vegeta-<br/>
bles. He drinks light and sparkling<br/>
wines, the vintage of Champagne and<br/>
Burgundy. Accordingly, the Frenchman<br/>
is lightsome and buoyant. He is a great<br/>
theorist and classifier. He adheres to the<br/>
ornate worship of the Mother Church<br/>
when religiously disposed. His literature<br/>
is perspicuous and clear. He is an ad-<br/>
mirable doctrinaire and generalizer-—wit-<br/>
ness Guizot and Montesquieu. He puts<br/>
philosophy and science into a readable<br/>
and comprehensive shape.—-The Teuto-<br/>
nic diet of sauer-kraut, sausages, cheese,<br/>
ham, &c, is indigestible, giving rise to a<br/>
vaporous, cloudy, cerebral state. German<br/>
philosophy and mysticism are its natu-<br/>
ral outcome.—-ATLANTIC MONTHLY.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dress and Diseases.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no truth more firmly esta-<br/>
blished among medical men that diseases<br/>
follows fashion as much as bonnets do.<br/>
When thin shoes prevail, consumption is<br/>
the prevailing epidemic with the females<br/>
in every fashionable community in the<br/>
country. When low-necked dresses are<br/>
in the ascendant, sore throat and quinsy<br/>
are the raging maladies. When "bus-<br/>
tles" and "bishops" made their appear-<br/>
ance spinal affections became "the TON."<br/>
—The reign of corsets is denoted by col-<br/>
lapsed lungs, dyspepsia, and a general<br/>
derangement of the digestive organs. In-<br/>
deed, a certain doctor says that all he<br/>
needs to determine what the majority of<br/>
the young women are dying of is to have<br/>
an inventory of their WARDROBE handed<br/>
to him.—EXCHANGE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chine Juggling
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While walking on the bank of the river<br/>
this afternoon, near the junction with the<br/>
Grand Canal, I saw some clever juggling.<br/>
A boy fourteen years of age, performed the<br/>
needle trick in an exceedingly expert man-<br/>
ner. He commenced by sticking a dozen<br/>
of common sewing needles upon the end of<br/>
a piece of wood, and showed them to the<br/>
lookers-on. I examined one of them, and<br/>
found it to be an ordinary sharp-pointed<br/>
needle. Having done this, he placed them,<br/>
one after another, between his lips, and<br/>
sucked them slowly into his mouth; and<br/>
to all appearance, swallowed them. He<br/>
then walked round the circle with his<br/>
mouth open, and allowed the people to look<br/>
into it; but nothing was to be seen of the<br/>
needles. He then took a crystal ball, about<br/>
the size of a walnut, and, placing it be-<br/>
tween his teeth, drew it to his mouth, and<br/>
to all appearance, swallowed it, as he open-<br/>
ed his mouth, and it was not visible. He<br/>
then made an effort as if bringing it up<br/>
from his stomach, and ejected it from his<br/>
mouth—-repeating this performance several<br/>
times. He next took a long piece of thread,<br/>
passed it up one nostril, and brought the<br/>
end out of his mouth, moving it backward<br/>
and forward by the two ends—the one<br/>
hanging out of his nostril, and the other<br/>
out of his mouth. He then pulled the<br/>
string out altogether, introduced it again<br/>
into his nostril and seemed to swallow the<br/>
whole piece of string. He again swallow-<br/>
ed the glass ball, ejected it, and immediate-<br/>
ly afterward drew the thread out of his<br/>
mouth with all the the needles strung upon<br/>
it. This is really a clever trick, showing<br/>
wonderful powers of stowing things away<br/>
in the mouth—the more so, as he was talk-<br/>
ing the whole time. A great amount of<br/>
skill is exhibited, and no small degree of<br/>
risk must be run in performing this trick,<br/>
as Mr. Lockhart mentions a case that oc-<br/>
curred at Shanghae, where the needles that<br/>
had been introduced into the mouth, ready<br/>
threaded, slipped down and became im-<br/>
bedded into the thick part of the throat,<br/>
and caused death the fifth day afterward.<br/>
—-LIFE IN CHINA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Want of Decision.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great deal of labor is lost to the world<br/>
for the want of a little courage. Every<br/>
day sends to their graves a number of ob-<br/>
scure men, who have only remained in ob-<br/>
scurity because their timidity has prevent-<br/>
ed them from making a first effort, and<br/>
who if they had only been induced to be-<br/>
gin, would in all probability, have gone<br/>
great lengths in the career of fame. The<br/>
fact is, that in doing anything in the world<br/>
worth doing, we must not stand shivering<br/>
on the bank, thinking of the cold and dan-<br/>
ger, but jump in and scramble through as<br/>
well as we can. It will not do to be per-<br/>
petually calculating risks and adjusting<br/>
nice chances; it did all very well before<br/>
the flood, when a man could consult his<br/>
friends upon an intended publication for a<br/>
hundred and fifty years, and live to see its<br/>
success for six or seven centuries after-<br/>
ward; but at present a man waits and<br/>
doubts, and consults his brothers, and un-<br/>
cles, and his particular friends, till one<br/>
day he finds that he has lost so much time<br/>
in consulting first cousins and particular<br/>
friends that he has no more time to follow<br/>
their advice. There is so little time for<br/>
over squeamishness at present, that the<br/>
opportunity slips away. The very period<br/>
of life at which a man chooses to venture,<br/>
if ever, is so confined that it is no bad rule<br/>
to preach up the necessity, in such instances,<br/>
of a little violence done to the feelings,<br/>
and efforts made in defiance of strict and<br/>
sober calculations.—SIDNEY SMITH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hugo's Habits.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Victor Hugo rises, winter and summer,<br/>
with the sun. He lights his fire and makes<br/>
his coffee, takes two writes, reads, or com-<br/>
poses until elven, and during that time<br/>
no one troubles him in his meditations. <br/>
At eleven, whatever the temperature may<br/>
be, he goes out on the terrace of the house,<br/>
which is on the same level as his room, and<br/>
makes long [....] with cold water.<br/>
He counts the breakfast-hour, devoted to<br/>
family and the reading of newspapers<br/>
and letters. This meal generally lasts for<br/>
an hour and a half. Then the poet takes<br/>
long walks across the island. He works<br/>
while walking, and writes at times before the<br/>
points he specially admires. He is not<br/>
much given to eating. His table is simply<br/>
set, and he is always satisfied with his<br/>
dishes before him. Although he has a<br/>
good appetite, he is moderate, and no one<br/>
can say that he has seen him commit the<br/>
least excess. He goes to bed early, gener-<br/>
ally before ten o'clock. Pens, ink and pa-<br/>
per are placed on a table near him. Often,<br/>
in his broken sleep, he jots down the<br/>
thoughts that cross his mind. Sometimes<br/>
he writes in the dark, and makes hierogly-<br/>
phics that in the morning he alone can<br/>
decipher.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, encompas-<br/>
sed the Hebrew Church. And they are<br/>
now thanking God for the 200,000 re-<br/>
deemed ones over whose scanty numbers<br/>
you are murmuring with faithless discon-<br/>
tent. (Hear, hear). Murmur no more,<br/>
but urge your missionaries to develope<br/>
and complete the native Churches—-to<br/>
bring forward native Pastors for ordina-<br/>
tion; and where these have been secured,<br/>
with vast congregations of native Chris-<br/>
tians, as at Tinnevelly, give no rest to<br/>
the Bishops of India till they consecrate<br/>
a Native Bishop, (applause), and leave<br/>
the native Christian Church to walk alone.<br/>
Christianity will then be more indigenous<br/>
in India then Mahommedanism has be-<br/>
come in eleven centuries; for instead of<br/>
being propagated by the sword of the<br/>
stranger, it will be preached and evan-<br/>
gelised by the natives of the soil. God<br/>
grant that we may all live to see it!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Gallant Officer then moved the<br/>
Resolution, and resumed his seat amidst<br/>
loud and prolonged applause.-—FRIEND<br/>
OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
English views of the Presi-
dent & Congress.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would recommend those who ad-<br/>
mire the constitution of the United States,<br/>
and prefer it to our own, to observe the<br/>
position into which it has now brought<br/>
the machinery of Government. The<br/>
central idea of that arrangement was to<br/>
entrust legislative power to the represent-<br/>
atives of the people and of the States,<br/>
and executive power to an individual<br/>
elected by the whole population, just as<br/>
the central idea of our own is to unite<br/>
both functions in the hands of the Min-<br/>
istry of the day. After years of com-<br/>
promise, a great occasion arises upon<br/>
which the people and the executive are<br/>
at direct variance, and instantly the con-<br/>
stitution comes to a dead lock, and the<br/>
nation is driven to choose between obey-<br/>
ing an individual will—which is despot-<br/>
ism, or resisting it—-which is neither more<br/>
nor less than civil war. A majority of<br/>
the people of the North, probably, as we<br/>
shall soon show, a very great majority,<br/>
but certainly a very considerable one in-<br/>
deed, are resolutely determined upon two<br/>
points; first, that substantial freedom of<br/>
labour shall be the universal rule of the<br/>
Union; and secondly, that the South shall<br/>
either give the negroes the franchise, or<br/>
abandon the claim to count them among<br/>
the electors to be represented. So long<br/>
as the President showed that these were<br/>
his ends also, the people, with the remark-<br/>
able docility of Americans, were willing<br/>
to let him choose the means, and witness-<br/>
ed his first acts with little annoyance or<br/>
even agitation. The veto which stopped<br/>
the Bill consolidating the Freedmen’s<br/>
Bureau was tolerated, not without a cer-<br/>
tain complacency, and the first thing which<br/>
aroused suspicion was the wild speech<br/>
from the steps of the White House, which<br/>
in opposition to most of our contempora-<br/>
ries we felt compelled to condemn. That<br/>
speech being made by a half-educated<br/>
person to uneducated persons was per-<br/>
fectly intelligible to the quiet farmers<br/>
who form the bulk of the American peo-<br/>
ple, and they saw at once that it was an<br/>
undignified explosion of extreme hatred<br/>
to the Radicals. Well, the farmers did<br/>
not love the Radicals particularly either,<br/>
but still they thought them only a little<br/>
extreme, and to hear them denounced in<br/>
this undignified fashion excited a suspi-<br/>
cion which the veto placed upon the Civil<br/>
Rights Bill changed into certainty. That<br/>
Bill was perhaps defective as to its machi-<br/>
nery, but the President’s Message showed,<br/>
first, that he did not think the negro ought<br/>
to be protected in his civil rights at all;<br/>
secondly, that he was attached to State<br/>
rights in an extreme degree; and thirdly,<br/>
that as between North and South he was<br/>
a Southerner at heart. The agitation<br/>
became extreme, and Mr. Johnson, either<br/>
irritated beyond bearing by the pressure<br/>
placed on him, or misled by his Tenness-<br/>
sean experiences, or deceived by his ig-<br/>
norance of the North in which he has<br/>
never lived, and has traveled very little,<br/>
issued without necessity or provocation<br/>
a proclamation announcing the Civil War<br/>
at an end, thus cutting away not only his<br/>
own “war power”—-the useful fiction<br/>
through which the necessary dictatorship<br/>
was exercised,—but the power of Con-<br/>
gress to legislate for public security, and,<br/>
in fact, making the re-admission of the<br/>
South a constitutional necessity. Then<br/>
the people broke with him. So strong<br/>
was the public feeling that it became<br/>
possible for the Radicals to use the re-<br/>
serve power of the constitution, and pass<br/>
the Civil Rights Bill in the Conservative<br/>
branch of the Legislature over the Presi-<br/>
dent’s head by a majority of two-thirds.<br/>
Moreover, that majority was less than the<br/>
majority in the country, many senators<br/>
saying openly that they had received dis-<br/>
tinct orders from the Legislatures of their<br/>
States to vote against the President, but<br/>
could not conscientiously obey them.<br/>
Even New York City, the stronghold of<br/>
democratic feeling, turned against Mr.<br/>
Johnson, and were he to be re-elected<br/>
to-morrow it is probable he would not<br/>
obtain a fifth of the popular vote. And<br/>
yet under circumstances in which a Brit-<br/>
ish Ministry would be instantly driven<br/>
from power, the free people of America<br/>
are powerless. Substantive power belongs<br/>
up to March 1869, not to them or to their<br/>
representatives, but to a self willed indi-<br/>
vidual chosen by accident, who is not<br/>
amenable to Congress, who if affected by<br/>
opinion at all is affected by that of the<br/>
half Southern Border States, who thinks<br/>
yielding discreditable, who is legally mas-<br/>
ter of the army, the navy, and the civil<br/>
service, who is by position master of the<br/>
Legislatures of the South, and who can-<br/>
not be removed. The public feeling has<br/>
no more power of resolving itself into<br/>
action than in Prussia. Congress can, no<br/>
doubt, pass the Civil Rights Bill over the<br/>
President’s head, but that is only a declar-<br/>
ation. The President must carry it out,<br/>
and he either will not do it, or will do it<br/>
ineffectually while he takes measures to<br/>
prevent further legislation from being of<br/>
any effect. Congress cannot forbid him<br/>
to withdraw the army or compel him to<br/>
fill up vacancies in the Freedmen’s Bu-<br/>
reau, or keep him from filling the bureau<br/>
with Southerners, or in fact from doing<br/>
anything which Queen and Cabinet to-<br/>
gether can do in England. If he likes to<br/>
defy them he can, and they have only<br/>
two constitutional remedies—to stop the<br/>
supplies or impeach the President. The<br/>
former expedient is nearly impossible, as<br/>
it would dissolve the army and shake<br/>
public credit; and the latter can only be<br/>
attempted after the President has done<br/>
some decidedly illegal act. It is true that<br/>
the words of the Constitution, Art. II.<br/>
sec. 2, are excessively wide, Congress be-<br/>
ing empowered to elect a President, “in<br/>
case of his removal from office, or of his<br/>
death, resignation, or inability to discharge<br/>
the powers and duties of the said office;”<br/>
but there can be little doubt that “ina-<br/>
bility” was only intended to cover such<br/>
contingencies as lunacy, paralysis, pro-<br/>
tracted illness, blindness or the like, and<br/>
not mere deficiency in capacity or willing-<br/>
ness. Should the President, indeed, as-<br/>
semble the Southern members by them-<br/>
selves, or do any act of that kind, then<br/>
indeed he might be impeached for trea-<br/>
son; but he is a man with great legality<br/>
of thought, and has the extraordinary rev-<br/>
erence of all Americans for the letters of<br/>
the Constitution. The people can do no-<br/>
thing, could do nothing if Congress were<br/>
unanimous; and the conflict must, so far<br/>
as appears, last till March 1869. Of<br/>
course it cannot last so long, for either<br/>
one side will yield or one resort to force;<br/>
but constitutionally, there is no provision<br/>
which could bring it to an end. There<br/>
is, in fact, under the American system,<br/>
no effective representative machinery<br/>
through which the nation can carry out<br/>
its will, while in England, though our<br/>
President is hereditary and irremovable,<br/>
the action of the people upon Govern-<br/>
ment is almost dangerously direct and<br/>
swift, becoming often effective, as was<br/>
seen in the matter of the Conspiracy Bill,<br/>
within a very few days. This is, as seems<br/>
to us, the one grand defect of the Ameri-<br/>
can system; one, too, absolutely irreme-<br/>
diable, except by an amendment to the<br/>
Constitution which the President himself<br/>
can veto, and which is nearly sure to be<br/>
vetoed. It was the defect also of our<br/>
own Government under the Common-<br/>
wealth, that government by “Parliament<br/>
and a Person,” which Mr. Carlyle so much<br/>
admires. The Person and Parliament<br/>
came, after many efforts at compromise,<br/>
into collision, and the Constitution went<br/>
down. In America it is probable that<br/>
the Parliament may win, but not till a<br/>
revolution has once more become immi-<br/>
nent. So strongly is this felt that the last<br/>
vote on the Civil Rights Bill was given<br/>
amid profound emotion, and the most<br/>
absurd plans for the employment of phy-<br/>
sical force are discussed in provincial<br/>
newspapers. It is this possibility of any<br/>
necessity arising for an appeal to force<br/>
on behalf of a clear majority which our<br/>
Constitution presents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Charles Mackay, who was THE<br/>
TIMES’ Correspondent during the Amer-<br/>
ican war, thus writes in the FORTNIGHT-<br/>
LY REVIEW for 1st April.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One thing is clear and distinct. There<br/>
is a reaction against fanaticism and phi-<br/>
losophism in America, and as strong a de-<br/>
sire in peace as there was during the war,<br/>
for a real Union—a union of hearts as<br/>
well as of interests—a union that, purified<br/>
of the great stain of slavery, shall have<br/>
nothing left on which any of its citizens<br/>
can found a pretext of quarrel. If such<br/>
a Union is to be the result, it will be the<br/>
imperishable glory of President Johnson,<br/>
and his undying claim to the gratitude of<br/>
his country, that he was sagacious enough<br/>
to see the right course, and hold enough<br/>
to follow it. Among all the statesmen of<br/>
his age he stands preeminent. There is<br/>
not a public man in Europe, unless it be<br/>
the Emperor Napoleon, who does not ap-<br/>
pear dwarfed when placed in comparison<br/>
with him. Greater is his task than was<br/>
that of Washington : brighter will be his<br/>
place in history if he perform it.—-FRIEND<br/>
OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARENTS and teachers should never put<br/>
away their own youth. They must never<br/>
cease to be young. Their sympathies and<br/>
sensibilities should always be quick and<br/>
fresh. They must love that which God<br/>
made the child to love. Children need<br/>
not only government firm and mild, but<br/>
sympathy warm and tender. So long as<br/>
parents are their best and most agreeable<br/>
companions, children are comparatively<br/>
safe, even in the society of others.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the Bang-<br/>
kok Calendar for 1866, in May,<br/>
June, August, and October, for<br/>
High read Low, and for Low read<br/>
High.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ALL persons having any de-<br/>
mands on the undersigned,<br/>
will present them for payment,<br/>
and all persons indebted to the<br/>
undersigned, are requested to<br/>
make payment, on or before, the<br/>
15th of August, or the same will<br/>
be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
