---
linkTitle: 'October 18th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - October 18th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); October 18th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 64
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, October 18th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 41.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Come Unto Me."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Art thou weary? Art thou languid?<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Art thou sore distrest?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Come to me," saith One,"and coming,<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Be at rest."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Hath He marks to lead me to him,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}If he be my Guide?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In his feet and hands are wound-prints,<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
And His side."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Is there diadem as a monarch<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That his brow adorns?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Yes, a crown in very surety,<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
But of thorns!"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}If I find him, if I follow,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}What his guerdon here?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Many a sorrow, many a labor,<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Many a tear."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}If I still hold closely to him,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}What hath he at last?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Sorrow vanquished, labor ended.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Jordan past!"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}If I ask him to receive me,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Will he say me nay?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Not till earth, and not till Heaven<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Pass away!"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Tending, following, keeping, struggling,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Is he sure to bless?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Angels, martyrs, prophets, pilgrims,<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Answer, Yes!"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-FROM ST. STEPHEN, THE SABBATH
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrama.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our Telegrams extend no later than<br/>
to the 10th instant: A Telegram is said<br/>
to have been received at Galle before the<br/>
steamer left, dated London, 15th Sept.,<br/>
stating trade generally to be very dull;<br/>
but no copy of this has come on to Sing-<br/>
pore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, September, 7th,—The Times<br/>
denies the report of the Marriage of the<br/>
King of Greece to the Princess Louise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London September 8th.—The Prus-<br/>
sian chamber voted for the annexation<br/>
bill almost unanimously.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, SEPTEMBER, 7TH.—Mr.<br/>
Seward presented Romero to President<br/>
Johnson, who said he hoped Mexico<br/>
could be freed from foreign invasion by<br/>
November.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
[The following European news we ex-<br/>
tract from the Straits Times.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
European Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE HOME NEWS, AUGUST 18TH.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Berlin Cabinet has refused the<br/>
French demand for a rectification of<br/>
frontier ; and the Emperor has declared<br/>
that their friendly relations shall not be<br/>
disturbed in consequence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon has written to<br/>
King Leopold to assure him that no in-<br/>
tention is entertained of annexing any<br/>
part of Belgium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principal inhabitants of Jamaica<br/>
have presented addresses to General<br/>
Eyre on his departure. Subscriptions<br/>
are being entered into in England for his<br/>
defence against prosecution. He has<br/>
been invited to a public banquet at<br/>
Southampton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Stephens, the Fenian leader, has an-<br/>
nounced in America that a rebellion will<br/>
break out in Ireland within the present<br/>
year. Preparations are making for an-<br/>
other raid into Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Negotiations for peace between Prus-<br/>
sia and Bavaria are proceeding favour-<br/>
ably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An armistice has been signed for four<br/>
weeks between Austria and Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A deputation of bankers has asked the<br/>
Chancellor of the Exchequer to relax the<br/>
restrictions on the issue of bank notes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A deputation from Birmingham urged<br/>
the necessity of reducing the present rate<br/>
of discount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reform meetings, demanding manhood<br/>
suffrage and ballot, continue to be held.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A revolution has broken out in the city<br/>
of Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cholera, upon an average of days,<br/>
is slightly diminishing in London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The investigation into the plot against<br/>
the life of the Emperor of Russia has led<br/>
to the discovery of secret revolutionary<br/>
societies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insurrection in Candia has assum-<br/>
ed formidable dimensions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mission of the Prussian General<br/>
Manteuffel to St. Petersburg has been<br/>
completely successful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Baker, the African traveler, has<br/>
been knighted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great loss of life has been occasioned<br/>
by a dreadful crush of people in Paris,<br/>
on the night of the Emperor’s fête.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A conflagration has occurred in Ant-<br/>
werp, involving an immense destruction<br/>
of property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(FROM THE HOME NEWS, AUGT. 27.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace has been signed with Prussia by<br/>
Austria and Bavaria.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon has assured<br/>
the English Government that he does<br/>
not contemplate the acquisition of any<br/>
Belgian territory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A public banquet has been given to<br/>
ex-Governor Eyre in Southampton. On<br/>
the same evening a counter-meeting was<br/>
held in the town. Mr. Eyre has been<br/>
since invited to banquets at Bath, Chip-<br/>
penham, and Cambridge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Disturbances are spreading in Mexico,<br/>
and the Imperialists have suffered seri-<br/>
ous defeats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
French ships are fitting out to convey<br/>
the last of the French troops home from<br/>
Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia has inflicted on Saxony a fine<br/>
of two millions and a half sterling for<br/>
having taken up arms in the late war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A petition is getting up in Belgium,<br/>
praying the King to place native Bel-<br/>
gians and not Frenchmen at the head of<br/>
the War and Foreign departments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A political amnesty, including Mazzi-<br/>
ni, has been declared in Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Much popular irritation exists in Paris<br/>
against Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An insurrection of Polish exiles has<br/>
broken out in Siberia, and been suppress-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Military law still prevails in New Or-<br/>
leans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Queen Emma of the Sandwich Islands<br/>
has arrived in New York.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of Mexico has left Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A separate ministry is to be conceded<br/>
to Hungary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insurrection in Candia has ob-<br/>
tained important successes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The grand jury of Middlesex have<br/>
made a presentment to the effect that<br/>
grand juries are practically useless.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague is rapidly diminish-<br/>
ing in England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Extraordinary cases of bribery have<br/>
been discovered by the commission ap-<br/>
pointed to inquire into the last Great<br/>
Yarmouth election.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lower Chamber has announced<br/>
its acceptance of the reorganization of<br/>
the army, and will vote all required sup-<br/>
plies if only it may retain the full control<br/>
of the budget. The government an-<br/>
nounces that it wants about £9,000,000,<br/>
which it will obtain by issuing Treasury<br/>
notes. A bill has been introduced estab-<br/>
lishing a German Parliament, on the<br/>
basis of universal suffrage and one mem-<br/>
ber to every 100,000 persons. It has<br/>
been delayed, though published, as the<br/>
Premier wishes the annexations to take<br/>
precedence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sunday, August 19, the king re-<br/>
ceived the address in reply to the speech<br/>
from the throne voted by the Upper<br/>
House. It is reported that his majesty<br/>
asked the members of the deputation<br/>
which presented the address, "whether<br/>
any one of them believed five weeks ago<br/>
that such results would have been obtain-<br/>
ed in so short a time. As for himself,<br/>
he did not believe it. Every one did his<br/>
duty, but it was to God that thanks were<br/>
due for the great things which had been<br/>
accomplished, and every one should in<br/>
entire humility rejoice in the divine be-<br/>
nediction." The king requested the de-<br/>
putation to give his thanks to the Upper<br/>
House for their conduct in supporting<br/>
the new organization which is in course<br/>
of preparation in spite of the efforts made<br/>
in other quarters to impede this move-<br/>
ment. The son of a prince, it was easy<br/>
to understand how reluctant he was to<br/>
deprive princes of their possessions. A<br/>
painful struggle took place in his own<br/>
mind on this subject, and the conviction<br/>
alone that such a measure was necessary<br/>
for the welfare of the country dictated<br/>
his decision.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the sitting on the 20th of the Lower<br/>
House committee on the bill for the elec-<br/>
tions to a German Parliament, the govern-<br/>
ment commissioner declared that the<br/>
whole of Prussia would belong to the<br/>
new Confederation, and that a bill would<br/>
be drawn up in conjunction with the other<br/>
Confederate governments to determine<br/>
the competency of the new Bund. He<br/>
further stated that the aim of the govern-<br/>
ment was to bring about, not merely a<br/>
personal, but a material union of the an-<br/>
nexed States with Prussia. On the 23rd,<br/>
the debate on the address, in reply to the<br/>
speech from the throne, took place in the<br/>
Lower House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The annexation gives the Prussian<br/>
monarchy an increase of 961 square<br/>
(German) miles, with 3,000,000 of in-<br/>
habitants; and if we add Holstein and<br/>
Schleswig, we have a territory of 292<br/>
square miles and 1,000,000 of inhabitants.<br/>
It will now form a State of 5387 square<br/>
miles and 23,000,000 inhabitants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram from Berlin of August 23<br/>
states that peace had been signed between<br/>
Prussia and Bavaria. The territories to<br/>
be ceded by Bavaria to Prussia comprise<br/>
the districts of Orb, Gersfeld, Hilters,<br/>
and Tham, situated in Lower Franconia.<br/>
These districts contain in all 40,000 in-<br/>
habitants. According to a French paper,<br/>
Bavaria is to pay Prussia 30,000,000 florins<br/>
towards the expenses of the war. The<br/>
Bavarian Chambers are summoned, and<br/>
the terms of peace accepted by Prussia<br/>
are to be laid before them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty of peace between Austria<br/>
and Prussia was also signed at Prague on<br/>
the evening of the 23rd, and sent to Vien-<br/>
na for ratification. After the ratifications<br/>
have been exchanged the evacuation of<br/>
the Austrian territory occupied by the<br/>
Prussian army will commence immedi-<br/>
ately. Three weeks is said to be the term<br/>
fixed for the complete evacuation of<br/>
Bohemia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian official report on the bat-<br/>
tle of Koniggratz computes the loss of<br/>
the Austrians at 40,000 men, 18,000 be-<br/>
ing prisoners, without wounds; and the<br/>
number of Prussians killed and wounded<br/>
at nearly 10,000. According to another<br/>
Prussian official report the following are<br/>
the losses sustained by the Prussians dur-<br/>
ing the late war:—4472 dead, 5341<br/>
severely wounded, 8885 slightly wounded,<br/>
2569 missing, making a total of 19,267.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Various stories are told of Count Bis-<br/>
marck. The first is told as occurring on<br/>
occupation of the village of Nikolsburg<br/>
by the Prussians, when many of the in-<br/>
habitants complained of the exactions of<br/>
the Prussian commandant:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of them, a Jew, so loud and bit-<br/>
ter in his complaints that some Prussian<br/>
soldiers who happened to be passing at<br/>
the time seized him and began to strike<br/>
him with their muskets. Count Bismarck,<br/>
hearing the noise, now came up, in the<br/>
uniform of a major of the Landwehr, and<br/>
asked what was the matter. The soldiers<br/>
explained that the Jew had been speak-<br/>
ing in offensive terms of the Prussians.<br/>
"It isn't true," exclaimed the Jew, who<br/>
did not know the Prussian minister, "I<br/>
was not abusing the army, but that Bis-<br/>
marck. All eyes now turned inquiringly<br/>
towards the Premier, who, however,<br/>
quietly rejoined, "Let him go; he has<br/>
only done what many others did before<br/>
him."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Italy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The feeling in Italy seems now to be<br/>
all in favour of peace and of a speedy<br/>
settlement of the present uncertain state<br/>
of things. The following expressions of<br/>
'l' Italie' may be taken as a fair sample<br/>
of these sentiments :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wishes of public opinion in Italy<br/>
are very clear at this moment. The coun-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
try desires as soon as possible to see an<br/>
end of the negotiations which henceforth<br/>
seem devoid of all serious object, and to<br/>
take possession of Venice and the Quadri-<br/>
lateral. For more than six weeks Italy<br/>
has been thrown like a shuttlecock from<br/>
deception to deception, and, if the truth<br/>
must be told, she has not understood nor<br/>
does she now understand the meaning of<br/>
all that has passed. But she sees clearly<br/>
that we are no further advanced to-day<br/>
than on the 6th of July, and she wishes<br/>
at least to assure herself of some results<br/>
gained by the great sacrifice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Baron Ricasoli has addressed a circular<br/>
to the prefects and sub-prefects of Italy,<br/>
in which he says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Last night I communicated the news<br/>
of the signature of the armistice, and<br/>
negotiations for peace will now commence,<br/>
which the government will endeavour to<br/>
render honorable and useful to the country.<br/>
Impress upon the people, and also upon<br/>
the press, that this is no time for resistance<br/>
or recrimination. The internal and exter-<br/>
nal condition of the country is known to<br/>
every one. But if true patriotism brings<br/>
to light the evils of the country, it also<br/>
knows how to conceal them when neces-<br/>
sary, and to remedy them in due season.<br/>
It is patriotism we need now, the essential<br/>
characteristic of which is not to substi-<br/>
tute personal desires for the necessities of<br/>
the country. Bitter controversy and inop-<br/>
portune recrimination would be a proof<br/>
of external weakness, which benefit our<br/>
enemies in every manner, and disturb the<br/>
action of the government, which has now<br/>
more than ever need to be free, and to be<br/>
supported by public opinion in entering<br/>
upon the peace negotiations. I feel that<br/>
the government has a right to the confi-<br/>
dence of the Italians, for it will do every-<br/>
thing that can conduce to the welfare of<br/>
the country. It is resolved to fulfil its<br/>
duty to the end, and to exert all its efforts<br/>
to enable Italy to issue stronger and more<br/>
assured from her present position. Con-<br/>
fidence in the government, concord and<br/>
moderation among the citizens, such are<br/>
the sentiments from which will arise the<br/>
strength which will enable us to triumph<br/>
over the obstacles, and accomplish in a<br/>
fitting manner the destinies of the nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rome.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Roman question remains unchang-<br/>
ed. The Pope has not yet come to any<br/>
resolution. His holiness's attitude is<br/>
still passive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The official journal of August 21st<br/>
say :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Signor Giacomo Commin, deputy to<br/>
the Florence Parliament, has been con-<br/>
ducted to the Pontifical frontier, solely<br/>
for using a false passport, contrary to<br/>
law. Other deputies and senators have<br/>
previously visited Rome without ever<br/>
having been molested, notwithstanding<br/>
their intemperate language in Parliament<br/>
and their hatred against the Catholic<br/>
Church.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The emperor's health has improved.<br/>
The Paris correspondent of the 'Globe'<br/>
writes on the evening of August 22:—<br/>
"The emperor, after having twice re-<br/>
ceived the last sacraments, and having<br/>
been on the point of death from half the<br/>
diseases to which flesh is 'heir, miracu-<br/>
lously recovered, and now drives ou<br/>
daily."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prince Napoleon has left for Switzer-<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Moniteur' of August 21 con-<br/>
tradicts the statement that the Emperor<br/>
Napoleon had written a letter to the<br/>
King of the Belgians, giving him an as-<br/>
surance that he has no intention of an-<br/>
nexing Belgian territory. It says:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although it is true that the French<br/>
Minister for Foreign Affairs has inform-<br/>
ed the British Government that France<br/>
would not demand the fortresses of Ma-<br/>
rienburg and Philippeville, which are in<br/>
the hands of a neutral Power, it is not<br/>
correct that the emperor has written to<br/>
the King of the Belgians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Patrie' contradicts a report<br/>
which had gained currency, that the em-<br/>
peror will only give Venetia to Italy<br/>
conditionally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of Mexico left Paris on<br/>
August 23 for Miramar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Gazette du Midi' asserts that<br/>
some ships fitting out for Mexico are to<br/>
convey reinforcements to the French<br/>
troops in that country, instead of to<br/>
bring home those which are already<br/>
there.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Turkey.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insurrection in Candia has reach-<br/>
ed serious proportions. Several of the<br/>
foreign commission, especially those of<br/>
Holland, Sweden; and the United States,<br/>
have suffered considerable damage, and<br/>
the consuls have protested. Intelligence<br/>
received viâ Trieste states that the in-<br/>
surgents, 25,000 strong, occupy import-<br/>
ant positions. The population is much<br/>
incensed against the Turks, and the lat-<br/>
ter are not in sufficient force to suppress<br/>
the revolt.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest.
Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The manner in which Prussia is treat-<br/>
ing the kingdom of Saxony is described<br/>
by a Paris paper as extremely harsh,<br/>
notwithstanding the generous interposi-<br/>
tion of France and Austria in its behalf.<br/>
A million and a half sterling is the fine<br/>
inflicted by the government of Berlin on<br/>
the Saxons in the shape of a war contri-<br/>
bution for having taken arms in the late<br/>
conflict on the side of the Austrians. To<br/>
this amount, strong objection might not<br/>
be taken ; but if it be true, as stated,<br/>
that Saxony has been forced to complete<br/>
a treaty transferring the command and<br/>
the organization of its army to King<br/>
William, the penalty is considered out of<br/>
all proportion excessive for the offence<br/>
of asserting its own independence and<br/>
aiding a faithful neighbour and ally in<br/>
his extremity. Meanwhile it is reported<br/>
from Leipsic that the Liberal national<br/>
party in Saxony are unanimously in fa-<br/>
vour of the incorporation of their country<br/>
with Prussia. They held a meeting on<br/>
Aug. 25, at which a resolution was pas-<br/>
sed to the effect that the common in-<br/>
terests of Germany would thereby be<br/>
best secured. That failing, it was re-<br/>
commended as an alternative that mili-<br/>
tary and diplomatic affairs should be<br/>
vested in Prussia, and commercial mat-<br/>
ters, both administrative and legislative,<br/>
in the government of the new Confeder-<br/>
ation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the treaty of peace signed at Pra-<br/>
gue on the 24th August, between Austria<br/>
and Prussia, the emperor consents to the<br/>
union of Venetian Lombardy with the<br/>
kingdom of Italy, conditional only upon<br/>
the payment by the latter of the debts<br/>
which shall be recognized as the share<br/>
of the ceded territory. The precedent<br/>
for this arrangement is the treaty of<br/>
Zurich, under which Milanese Lombardy<br/>
was transferred to Italy. But, notwith-<br/>
standing this arrangement, it appears to<br/>
be by no means clear that all difficulties<br/>
are removed. It is said the Italian re-<br/>
presentative in the negotiations with<br/>
Austria is authorized to demand the re-<br/>
stitution of national relics and objects of<br/>
art which Austria has carried away from<br/>
Venetia, including the iron crown of<br/>
Lombardy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Austria.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is asserted that immediately after<br/>
the ratification of the peace treaty with<br/>
Prussia, the interior questions relating to<br/>
the constitution of the empire will be<br/>
settled. "The principle of a separate<br/>
administration of Hungary and Austria<br/>
will," it is said, "prevail in the new pol-<br/>
itical organization of the empire. An<br/>
imperial manifesto will be published,<br/>
granting responsible ministries to Hun-<br/>
gary with such power of independent<br/>
action as is compatible with the unity of<br/>
the empire." It is further stated that<br/>
the emperor will reside during several<br/>
months of the year at Buda, in Hungary.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram from New York, dated<br/>
August 23d, transmitted by the Atlantic<br/>
telegraph, announces that "President<br/>
Johnson had abandoned the Fenian pro-<br/>
secutions."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our advices by mail steamer are to<br/>
August 16, and among the more import-<br/>
ant items of intelligence are the sub-<br/>
joined :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Great National Union Convention<br/>
was opened on August 14th at Philadel-<br/>
phia, and General Dix elected temporary<br/>
chairman. Great enthusiasm prevailed,<br/>
and the mention of President Johnson's<br/>
name elicited prolonged applause. The<br/>
Convention adjourned on the 16th, after<br/>
passing resolutions declaring the Union<br/>
and the constitution to be restored, and<br/>
that neither Congress nor government<br/>
could deny representation to any State.<br/>
The resolutions urge the people to elect<br/>
none but men admitting this principle.<br/>
The right to prescribe qualification for<br/>
the elective franchise is reserved to States.<br/>
No State can withdraw from the Union,<br/>
nor by its action in Congress exclude an-<br/>
other State from the Union. The reso-<br/>
lutions further tender sincere support to<br/>
President Johnson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cholera is slowly abating in New<br/>
York, but it is becoming epidemic in the<br/>
interior and at several points on the coast.<br/>
The disease has appeared at Chicago,<br/>
Memphis, and other interior cities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bill has passed the Canadian Parlia-<br/>
ment prohibiting persons suspected of<br/>
disloyalty in Canada, drilling or carrying<br/>
arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_1_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—-Charms strike the sight, but merit<br/>
wins the soul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-It may not be generally known that<br/>
editors get one important item of subsis-<br/>
tence at a low price-—they get nomaid for<br/>
nothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"I say Jim," says one friend to an-<br/>
other, "I hear our friend A. has been in<br/>
the oil speculation heavily ; has he made<br/>
anything?" "Oh yes," says Jim, "he<br/>
has made an assignment."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
October 18th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Birth-day of the King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the many flags of all nations<br/>
which we see floating on the flagstaffs<br/>
at the royal palace, the palaces of all<br/>
the princes, the nobles and lords and<br/>
the Siamese shipping in port, we are<br/>
reminded that this day is the 62nd an-<br/>
niversary of the birth of His Majesty<br/>
the king of Siam. Most heartily do<br/>
we wish him a happy new year; and<br/>
we would have been quite well pleased<br/>
to attend his birth-day dinner party<br/>
which came off this evening in the<br/>
royal palace, had we been honored<br/>
with an invitation to it. But this<br/>
honor it did not please His Majesty<br/>
to give us, nor one of our brethren<br/>
the mere missionaries, nor one of the<br/>
foreign merchants, as we learn, be-<br/>
cause he has been led by some pecu-<br/>
liar European influence, not necessary<br/>
now to name, to think that it is not<br/>
customary in monarchical and imperi-<br/>
al governments for a monarch or em-<br/>
peror to allow mere clergymen and<br/>
merchants to sit at his table on such<br/>
an occasion in company with consuls<br/>
and bishops, as the former are sup-<br/>
posed to rank below the latter. Hence<br/>
His Majesty, being himself a mon-<br/>
arch, and wishing to conform to Eu-<br/>
ropean usages as much as he conveni-<br/>
ently can, invited all the consuls, to-<br/>
gether with the Roman catholic bis-<br/>
hop and the vicar apostolic of Siam to<br/>
his birth-day dinner. But we hear<br/>
that there was one consul among them<br/>
of whom the king stood in doubt<br/>
whether his presence would be agree-<br/>
able to certain European dignitaries<br/>
whom he thought it all important to<br/>
please, and that therefore he sent to<br/>
obtain their views on the question be-<br/>
fore-hand. The doubt was not as to<br/>
character but solely as to rank.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that that eclectic party had<br/>
as good a time by themselves as they<br/>
had last year, that the dinner was full<br/>
equal to that of any of its predecessors,<br/>
that His Majesty looked full as hale<br/>
and robust as he did ten years ago,<br/>
that he promises to have at least fifteen<br/>
years of good health added to his<br/>
illustrious reign, and that he was quite<br/>
gracious to them all, but showing some<br/>
preferences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now the reader of this may ask are<br/>
you sporting with words, or are you<br/>
really in earnest in saying that His<br/>
Majesty did not invite any of the mere<br/>
missionaries and foreign merchants to<br/>
his birth-day dinner? To be sure<br/>
we are in sober earnest, for it is a fact<br/>
that none of us were invited to that<br/>
dinner. But still it is due to truth<br/>
to say that the king did not fail to<br/>
remember us as his old and tried<br/>
friends, for he sent us a very conde-<br/>
scending and polite invitation to dine<br/>
at his palace on the second day of his<br/>
new year, wishing us to bestow our<br/>
individual and collective blessings up-<br/>
on him and his dynasty. How many<br/>
of us his second class friends will at-<br/>
tend, we are not prepared to say; and<br/>
can only for ourselves apologize for<br/>
non-compliance by offering the excuse<br/>
that we are too Republican in spirit, ev-<br/>
en "dyed in the wool" to encourage by<br/>
our influence such foolish distinctions<br/>
of honor made among persons invited<br/>
to a celebration of a birthday in any<br/>
man's mansion or palace, but more<br/>
especially that of a monarch, who is<br/>
expected to have adequate room in<br/>
his heart and in his palace to receive<br/>
all his invited friends at one and the<br/>
same time, and to treat them essen-<br/>
tially alike. We conceive that such<br/>
an occasion as that of a birthday cele-<br/>
bration, like that of a wedding, is the<br/>
last place for any man, be he a peas-<br/>
ant or a monarch, to divide the friends<br/>
he accounts worthy of being invited<br/>
to it, into different castes, and seating<br/>
them at separate tables. This mere<br/>
statement of the case must carry with<br/>
it abundant evidence to any civilized<br/>
and educated mind, not highly in-<br/>
flated with the pride of station, that<br/>
such gradations at such times are, and<br/>
cannot but be abhorrent to good<br/>
breeding. But it is not strange that<br/>
a heathen monarch should naturally<br/>
consider such a course as quite unex-<br/>
ceptionable, especially if he be taught<br/>
so by European consuls, and that he<br/>
would need to be reasoned with on<br/>
the subject to show him its inpro-<br/>
priety. Hence we do not and cannot<br/>
entertain any unfriendly feelings to-<br/>
wards His Majesty for the course he<br/>
has taken. But we do feel to censure<br/>
strongly those persons from christian<br/>
nations who have advised him to take<br/>
it. We did hope that the experience<br/>
of the two last royal birthday celebra-<br/>
tions would be full enough to induce<br/>
the king to return to his former cus-<br/>
tom of having all his invited friends<br/>
seated at tables in the same hall and<br/>
at the same time, mixing consuls,<br/>
clergymen, merchants, and others to-<br/>
gether in a common and pleasant<br/>
brotherhood. With the exception of<br/>
one and at the most two Europeans,<br/>
the unanimous testimony of all the<br/>
guests at these annual celebrations<br/>
and that of the king's we doubt not,<br/>
was then and is now that such com-<br/>
mingling of rank and feeling is in-<br/>
deed as pleasant as heart could wish<br/>
for such an occasion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Domestic Animals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPT. IV.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose now, after a long inter-<br/>
val of five months to resume our se-<br/>
ries on domestic animals. The last<br/>
animal we wrote about under this<br/>
head was the little house lizard or the<br/>
gecko. We will in this article de-<br/>
scribe another animal belonging to<br/>
the same genus, scientifically classed<br/>
among the Saurians, and in which<br/>
class belong crocodiles or alligators.<br/>
Preposterous, some of our readers<br/>
may think, to class a species of the<br/>
alligator among domestic animals! But<br/>
wait a little and we will show good<br/>
reasons for what we do. The animal<br/>
we now allude to is called by the Sia-<br/>
mese tookkaa, being so named because<br/>
it always utters this word when it<br/>
speaks. Its general form is much like<br/>
that of an alligator but a thousand<br/>
times smaller. We class it among our<br/>
domestic animals because it makes its<br/>
home in our houses, and is a harmless,<br/>
serviceable, social, and beautiful crea-<br/>
ture as seen on our walls and ceiling,<br/>
coming out every evening to look at<br/>
you, and serve you in hunting and<br/>
catching bugs and beetles that are an-<br/>
noying you by buzzing about your<br/>
lamps and your heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A full sized tookkaa is about ten<br/>
inches long from the extremity of its<br/>
jaws to the end of its tail, the latter<br/>
being full one third of its whole length.<br/>
Its head is somewhat of the dart shape<br/>
being one and a fourth of an inch long,<br/>
an inch wide from side to side, and<br/>
three quarters of an inch thick. The<br/>
two small nasal orifices are quite near<br/>
the extremity of the upper jaw; the<br/>
eyes, being as large as a small pea and<br/>
beautifully black are set in the sides<br/>
of the head a quarter of an inch be-<br/>
hind the nasal passages; and the ears<br/>
are placed quite in the posterior part<br/>
of the head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tookkaa is a quadruped, hav-<br/>
ing legs two inches long with five toes<br/>
on each foot, armed each with a sharp<br/>
claw. The balls of the toes look much<br/>
like a fine rasp, but when seen through<br/>
a glass on which they are holding, the<br/>
grooves of the rasp-appearance entire-<br/>
ly disappear. This must be the<br/>
mechanism of divine make by which<br/>
they are enabled to exhaust the air<br/>
between their toes and the ceiling,<br/>
and walk with their backs downward.<br/>
But they sometimes forget to use it<br/>
and hence fall from the ceiling pro-<br/>
ducing a concussion which quite stuns<br/>
them. Sometimes they fall on your<br/>
heads and by their claws shock you<br/>
dreadfully.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a great similarity in the<br/>
color of tookkaas, which is a very<br/>
curious arrangement of pale red spots<br/>
on a pale green ground—the red occu-<br/>
pying less than a third of the entire<br/>
superfices. The order is such as to<br/>
form nine or ten green circles around<br/>
the body some three quarters of an<br/>
inch apart. The red spots on the<br/>
back are a little protuberant, but on<br/>
the belly they are quite smooth.<br/>
Looking at the creatures without a<br/>
glass, they appear to be covered with<br/>
a coat of mail made of the smallest<br/>
glass beads very closely set. But<br/>
when you take a magnifying glass you<br/>
find that the beads are only scales<br/>
neatly lapped on each other. There<br/>
is the appearance of a small corded<br/>
seam on each side of the belly mark-<br/>
ing, as it were, its boundary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The jaws of tookkaas are capable<br/>
of sufficient expansion to grasp the<br/>
largest beetles; but they make a singu-<br/>
lar ado in getting them ready for<br/>
swallowing. Beetles being too large to<br/>
swallow at once without any prelim-<br/>
inaries as they do flies, and too stren-<br/>
uous of their own right to life to suc-<br/>
comb without a vigorous and prolong-<br/>
ed struggle, tookkaas have to work<br/>
hard for their living after they have<br/>
caught their game. They will give it<br/>
three or four hard shakes and taps<br/>
on the wall every few minutes, and<br/>
this operation they have often to con-<br/>
tinue for an hour or more before the<br/>
beetle is dead and sufficiently broken<br/>
down and softened to admit of swal-<br/>
lowing. If the wall or ceiling be of<br/>
wood the noise consequent upon this<br/>
struggle is much like that of a knock<br/>
with the knuckles by a visitor at your<br/>
door. And many a time have we<br/>
been awaked out of our sleep by it,<br/>
supposing that some person was thus<br/>
asking for permission to come in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was only a few weeks since when<br/>
our daughter was startled from sleep<br/>
by a rapping at the head of her bed.<br/>
She searched the wall thoroughly in<br/>
the direction whence the sound came,<br/>
but found nothing that could cause it.<br/>
Becoming quite nervous about it, and<br/>
unable to sleep, she called us up to<br/>
her aid. Being accustomed to the<br/>
ways of tookkaas we immediately sus-<br/>
pected that there was one of the crea-<br/>
tures on the outside of the ceiling<br/>
knocking the life out of a beetle. We<br/>
took a lamp, and opening the window<br/>
blinds looked outside in the direction<br/>
of the sound, and there we saw one of<br/>
the largest tookkaas doing just the<br/>
thing we had suspected. Taking a<br/>
long stick, we struck him fairly and<br/>
sent him down to the ground when<br/>
we went down and captured him as<br/>
he was badly wounded. We put him<br/>
into a glass bottle to preserve his life<br/>
until we could take time to give him<br/>
a thorough examination, and hence the<br/>
minute account we have now given of<br/>
the tookkaa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We feel that we cannot well afford<br/>
to loose the present opportunity to<br/>
relate a circumstance which occurred<br/>
to one of our foreign merchants here<br/>
more than a year ago, in which we<br/>
fully believe a tookkaa figured large-<br/>
ly. Our friend the merchant related<br/>
the affair to us himself and was great-<br/>
ly puzzled to know how to account<br/>
for it. He was no believer in ghost<br/>
apparitions, nor witch stories, nor spi-<br/>
rit rappings. So far as we can re-<br/>
member his account of the matter it is<br/>
as follows. He was sleeping alone in his<br/>
bedroom near his office and his money<br/>
chest—being somewhat skittish of<br/>
thieves, and consequently had several<br/>
servants within call, whom he might<br/>
speedily summon to his aid in case of<br/>
a tussle with a burglar. He was<br/>
awaked in the dead of might by a mis-<br/>
terious rapping on the outer wall of<br/>
his bed-room. He got up and searched<br/>
for the cause but found it not. He<br/>
rapped heavily on the wall with his<br/>
hands, but that only lengthened the<br/>
intervals of the concealed rapping.<br/>
Thinking that perhaps it might be<br/>
some mischievous person playing a<br/>
joke upon him from the outside, he<br/>
hallowed to fright him away; and see-<br/>
ing that this produced little or no<br/>
change in the rapping, he took his<br/>
pistol and sent several balls through<br/>
the ceiling in the direction of the rap-<br/>
ping. But this remedy likewise fail-<br/>
ing, he and his men went out to search<br/>
outside, but found no reasonable<br/>
cause of the mystery. The rapping<br/>
was continued at intervals sometime<br/>
after that, and our friend could scarce-<br/>
ly settle his mind in regard to it even<br/>
after our explanation of it. He was<br/>
not willing to think that he has been<br/>
so humbugged by a tookkaa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tookkaas lay their eggs in concealed<br/>
nooks and corners of our houses, but<br/>
not in any thing like a nest. Having<br/>
singular power over gravitation in re-<br/>
gard to their own bodies, they are en-<br/>
abled to extend the same to their eggs,<br/>
and stick them up on the side of the<br/>
wall. They are about the size of spar-<br/>
rows eggs and of a purple colour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The noise which a tookkaa makes<br/>
as intimated above is simply the utter-<br/>
ance of its name, and that is loud en-<br/>
ough to be heard many hundred yards<br/>
distant. They speak the name eight<br/>
or ten times in succession with inter-<br/>
vals of two or three seconds between<br/>
each. They begin their set speeches<br/>
with a strong and distinct utterance of<br/>
the name tookkaa, and very gradually<br/>
diminish the volume of the sound of<br/>
each utterance until the close of the<br/>
series, when it amounts to but little<br/>
more than a grunt, as if the lungs had<br/>
become quite exhausted of air.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now this is an awful sound to one<br/>
unaccustomed to it when waked by it<br/>
in the dead of night. We remember<br/>
how an old friend of ours was startled<br/>
by it when sleeping in a barrack of a<br/>
house some 30 years ago when he<br/>
first came to this city. Had not the<br/>
sound come to him in such measured<br/>
accents, he would have thought that it<br/>
was a warning from some human<br/>
friend to rouse up and take care of<br/>
himself from fire or from thieves, for<br/>
the utterances are much like that of<br/>
one saying take care-take care. But<br/>
it was too formal and too cool and<br/>
prolonged to be thus interpreted.<br/>
What on earth thought he can it be!<br/>
Is it a voice from the tombs warning<br/>
me of death? No, for this has never<br/>
been any part of my education—-that is<br/>
all a humbug. Can it be a satanic<br/>
influence. Well, it is possible though<br/>
he at least indirectly through his em-<br/>
issaries. So he looked about for the<br/>
rascal who was trying to scare him,<br/>
and behold it was only a tookhaa.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAUM KLAU.
CHAPTER XI.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Laws and usages as adopted<br/>
by the present king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER XII.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Manner of rewarding service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER XIII.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Modes of punishing crime.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER XIV.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Stimulus afforded to labor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above chapters will appear in<br/>
future Numbers. The XV chapter<br/>
has the following:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam in the light of its own past<br/>
history is, even in the treatment of wo-<br/>
man, on the march of improvement,<br/>
and the king in the company of refor-<br/>
mers. Think of the last king of Siam,<br/>
He is said to have had three hundred<br/>
wives. This is what will be remem-<br/>
bered of him in coming time. He did<br/>
no great good that will live after him,<br/>
and as a polygamist he will be noto-<br/>
rious in all time, as among the great-<br/>
est of law breakers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the present king came to the<br/>
throne he proposed a reform in this<br/>
respect. We are only sorry he has<br/>
succeeded no more perfectly. In some<br/>
respects there has even in this depart-<br/>
ment been a great reform. In the<br/>
former reign a pretty girl of the com-<br/>
mon people could not be trusted alone<br/>
even in the vicinity of her own door.<br/>
They were stolen frequently, when<br/>
found in the streets to present to the<br/>
nobility to become play actresses in<br/>
their theatres. But we hear of no such<br/>
evil doing at the present time. Peo-<br/>
ple do present their pretty girls, it is<br/>
true, to be trained up in the families<br/>
of the nobility but there seems now<br/>
no compulsion in the matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In some instances where ladies have<br/>
been appropriated contrary to their<br/>
own wishes, the king has freed them<br/>
from the tyrants who would have op-<br/>
pressed them and redressed their<br/>
wrongs. In his own household, he<br/>
has in several instances, allowed the<br/>
daughters of noblemen, who had been<br/>
presented to him, and were unhappy<br/>
in their new relations, to return freely<br/>
to their old homes and choose whom<br/>
they would as partners of life, though<br/>
they had once been allied to royalty.<br/>
This is all honorable and as it should<br/>
be, and the king has allowed all the<br/>
ladies far greater freedom and more<br/>
occasions of social intercourse and so-<br/>
cial pleasure then all that have gone<br/>
before him. Let the ladies honor his<br/>
benevolence. But was it not possi-<br/>
ble for him to have refrained from be-<br/>
coming a polygamist. He had expe-<br/>
rience which ought to have given him<br/>
wisdom to act on two great questions<br/>
poligamy and the celibacy of the<br/>
priesthood. Could poligamy be abo-<br/>
lished in this country a great obstacle<br/>
would be out of the track of progress.<br/>
Could celibacy cease to be binding<br/>
on the priesthood another great good<br/>
would be done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king was a long time in the<br/>
priesthood. Did his experience tell<br/>
him that celibacy was a promoter of<br/>
virtue and goodness; or can he say<br/>
with the great maker of the human<br/>
race, it is not good for man to be<br/>
alone. Celibacy is not essential to<br/>
Buddhism. It is said that Buddhist<br/>
priests in Thibet marry. If they could<br/>
be allowed to marry in Siam it would<br/>
be one step in the march of reforma-<br/>
tion, and there would be one less need<br/>
of a plurality of wives for others. The<br/>
wives of the laymen would not need,<br/>
as they often do now, to cook the<br/>
priests breakfast and deliver it into<br/>
their hands thanking them for the<br/>
privilege, while the customs of the<br/>
country debar the priests from those<br/>
female influences which would make<br/>
them thrifty and provident and far<br/>
more upright, exemplary and useful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king as a polygamist must<br/>
have had lessons of wisdom. He must<br/>
have had great perplexities. It is<br/>
an inevitable consequence with hu-<br/>
man nature as it is; and the scene is<br/>
not finished when he passes away; the<br/>
evils will be complicated and number-<br/>
less and without redress. In the mo-<br/>
ments of his serious reflection the king<br/>
must often be brought near the au-<br/>
nouncement of the great maker. Let<br/>
the man leave father and mother and<br/>
cleave to the wife and "they twain<br/>
shall be one flesh."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the father of the present king<br/>
left the throne vacant, this son had al-<br/>
ready arrived at the age of manhood.<br/>
He had married a descendant of the<br/>
great PHYA TAK and had two sons. An<br/>
elder brother was placed on the<br/>
throne, royal only on the father's side,<br/>
and the present king, seemingly, from<br/>
his fully royal parentage, the real heir,<br/>
giving up his wife and two sons re-<br/>
mained in the priesthood more than<br/>
twenty years. In the meantime, his<br/>
wife was lost to him forever, and his<br/>
sons grew up to manhood without the<br/>
guiding hand of the father. Was it<br/>
well for him that he gave up his wife<br/>
and the training of his children? We<br/>
think not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is nothing in the sacred rela-<br/>
tion of marriage, properly entered up-<br/>
on, that will hinder in the faithful dis-<br/>
charge of our duties. The need of a<br/>
help mate was coeval with the creation<br/>
of man, and the relation properly en-<br/>
tered upon and properly sustained is<br/>
a promoter of all that is lovely and of<br/>
good report.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the present king came to the<br/>
throne it was directly from the clois-<br/>
ter to be ushered into the company<br/>
of a great community of women. There<br/>
were the relics of his brother's three<br/>
hundred wives with their women at-<br/>
tendants, and his brother's sixteen<br/>
daughters the youngest already in her<br/>
teens, his sisters and aunts and nieces,<br/>
who had been all clustered around the<br/>
throne. In old Bible times it was con-<br/>
sidered a great calamity when seven<br/>
women took hold of one man wishing<br/>
protection and support. But here<br/>
more than seventy times seven expec-<br/>
ted to be provided for out of the ro-<br/>
yal treasury and to be furnished with<br/>
a home and protection from the<br/>
throne. And it was now demanded<br/>
from an ex-priest who had for more<br/>
than twenty years been living in clois-<br/>
tered halls, where he was forbidden<br/>
to touch even the finger tips of his<br/>
own mother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a marvel he has managed them<br/>
all so well and especially when we re-<br/>
member that he has had in addition a<br/>
whole troop of young wives, with a<br/>
large circle of sons and daughters to<br/>
love alike and promote equally or<br/>
arouse a domestic disturbance. We<br/>
wonder at the skill that has marked<br/>
his career. Yet we must sincerely de-<br/>
plore the whole system. Its operations<br/>
are most destructive to all virtue and<br/>
all domestic happiness throughout the<br/>
realm. It cultivates 'loose morals and<br/>
forms a kind of society that opposes<br/>
few restraints to the progress of vice.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king of Siam re-<br/>
turned from NAKAWN SAWAN on the<br/>
morning of the 6th inst., having been<br/>
absent six days. It is reported that<br/>
His Majesty took tne sun at that city,<br/>
and has ascertained the exact latitude<br/>
and longitude of the place. It is very<br/>
pleasant to think that the king spends<br/>
a good portion of the time he devotes<br/>
to pleasure excursions in thus measu-<br/>
ring the sun, as the Siamese call it,<br/>
and other kindred scientifical recrea-<br/>
tion from Court duties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that His Majesty is to<br/>
take another excursion in eight or ten<br/>
days to PITSANOOLOKE, a city situated<br/>
a little East of North of Bangkok on<br/>
the most Eastern branch of the Me-<br/>
nam, and distant from this, we should<br/>
judge, about three hundred miles. His<br/>
Majesty makes these trips at the North<br/>
in his royal steam yatch. The river<br/>
being more than full of water at this<br/>
season of the year, he hence meets with<br/>
but little of the impediments in ma-<br/>
king them hat he would do at other<br/>
seasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home and suit left this P. M. for a<br/>
pleasure trip to RAT BOREE by the<br/>
inland route, and hence went in one<br/>
of his beautiful oar-barges being at-<br/>
tended by many others. It is said<br/>
that he has gone to sewt hatin—-that<br/>
is, to present yellow robes to the priests<br/>
in the Buddhist temples in that city,<br/>
and that he will be absent about a<br/>
week.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEATHER.-—Our wet season is now<br/>
daily withdrawing its forces which is<br/>
just the right time, and the dry sea-<br/>
son is coming in with great richness and<br/>
glory. The whole vegetable kingdom<br/>
is now displaying itself in its richest<br/>
costume. The paddy fields are the<br/>
most extensive, beautiful, and promi-<br/>
sing, and every creature of all God's<br/>
creation and preservation in Siam, ex-<br/>
cepting man, is now praising him in<br/>
the highest strains "for his goodness<br/>
and wonderful works to the children<br/>
of men."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to learn that gas light<br/>
has at length been successfully intro-<br/>
duced in this city by R. S, Scott &<br/>
Co. through the skillfull experiments<br/>
of A. Nelson engineer. As yet it has<br/>
only been set in operation at the new<br/>
Steam Rice Mill of Messrs Scott & Co.<br/>
The first experiment was made on last<br/>
evening.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the citizens of Bangkok may<br/>
have a good opportunity of witnessing<br/>
the beauty and value of gas light as<br/>
compared with that of oil, and thus be<br/>
induced to exchange the latter for the<br/>
former, we are authorized to invite<br/>
them to call at the new Rice Mill on<br/>
Wednesday the 24th inst. and Wed-<br/>
nesday the 31st at 8 o’clock P. M., when<br/>
they are promised a good view of the<br/>
affair. As it is unquestionably the<br/>
first essay in the direction of a great<br/>
improvement awaiting this Metropolis,<br/>
we hope there will be many witnesses.<br/>
It is said that gas light can be made<br/>
much less expensive for large estab-<br/>
lishments in this city, than oil light.<br/>
This consideration, aside from many<br/>
others in its favor, is a weighty one<br/>
since we have to pay $3 for twenty<br/>
catties of cocoanut oil. We beg to<br/>
enquire again, is there no relief from<br/>
the oppression we suffer in the article<br/>
of lamp oil? How is it that petrole-<br/>
um cannot be imported with profit to<br/>
the importer and with advantage to<br/>
those who have long been paying ex-<br/>
horbitant prices for cocoanut oil!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the new Steam Rice<br/>
Mill of Messrs R. S. Scott & Co. will<br/>
commence running in about a week,<br/>
and that it is likely to be found in<br/>
some respects an improvement over<br/>
the three Steam Mills that have been<br/>
introduced before it. These Steam<br/>
Mills have already wrought a great<br/>
Revolution in the business of hull-<br/>
ing the rice of this market, and will<br/>
doubtless be multiplied until it shall<br/>
be thought, even by Chinese, quite<br/>
preposterous to think of employing<br/>
native hand mills for preparing Si-<br/>
amese rice for exportation. It ap-<br/>
pears that the three mills which have<br/>
been running during this year have<br/>
been doing a grand business.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Buddhist miracle at temple<br/>
Samplume is still in operation, and<br/>
is still calling thousands daily, not on-<br/>
ly from all parts of the city but king-<br/>
dom to witness it and pay their de-<br/>
votions to the profile of something<br/>
which the recent wet weather has<br/>
made in that niche of the temple spire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We passed the place a day or two<br/>
since and found a much greater crowd<br/>
and noise of trumpets clarions, conch<br/>
shells, beating of the two octave series<br/>
of gongs and theatrical proformances<br/>
than before. One priest being exce-<br/>
edingly animated took us by the hand<br/>
and led us to the golden image in a<br/>
little building exclusively devoted to<br/>
it, which he affirmed was the cause<br/>
of that wonderful profile, or glory as<br/>
they call it on the spire
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed that<br/>
even His Majesty the king is quite<br/>
impressed with the belief that there<br/>
is really a miracle being continually<br/>
wrought there by the idol, and that he<br/>
has actually had a sketch of the glo-<br/>
rious shadow taken for the purpose<br/>
of having a copper image made as a<br/>
copy of it, that it may be kept in<br/>
everlasting remembrance by the<br/>
faithful. We hear that he has al-<br/>
ready appropriated 500 catties of sil-<br/>
ver for that object, and commanded an<br/>
artist to proceed directly to the work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another view of the affair is,<br/>
that the king has really too much<br/>
good sense to believe that there is any<br/>
miracle in it; but seeing that it fur-<br/>
nishes a capital opportunity to make<br/>
himself popular with his people, and<br/>
to glorify his own reign, and perpetu-<br/>
ate his dynasty, he seizes upon it from<br/>
purely political motives, and not only<br/>
appears to fall in with the popular idea<br/>
of it, but even goes ahead of the peo-<br/>
ple all, and makes more of it than any<br/>
of them had thought of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported, that the imaginary<br/>
image, on being examined a few days<br/>
since by a priest regarded the most<br/>
holy in the kingdom, manifestly veiled<br/>
its glory out of respect to that holy<br/>
man, and that when he retired from<br/>
the view the veil was removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE king of Cheang Mai has been<br/>
prevented from starting homeward by<br/>
the elopement of several of his men.<br/>
Some of them have been caught and<br/>
brought back to service, but the grea-<br/>
ter part are still concealed somewhere<br/>
doubtless in this modern Babel. To<br/>
search for them, under the present city<br/>
government, seems much like "looking<br/>
for a needle in a haymow."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Islands No. 3.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The question naturally arises—-why<br/>
did the A. B. C. F. M. think of sending<br/>
missionaries to the Sandwich Islands,<br/>
so small a people and so little known,<br/>
when there were many other heathen<br/>
nations vastly more important to whom<br/>
they did not send any? The question<br/>
may be briefly answered by saying<br/>
they did so because God in his provi-<br/>
dence sent to New Haven, in the year<br/>
1808, a Sandwich Island youth, sub-<br/>
sequently named Obookiah, by whom<br/>
he aroused the hearts of American<br/>
Christians to feel a deep sympathy for<br/>
Obookiah’s people in their loneliness,<br/>
ignorance, and moral ruin in those isles<br/>
of the sea. He was brought to N.<br/>
Haven, in company with two other<br/>
Sandwich island lads by a ship-master<br/>
who touched at Kealakekua and Wai-<br/>
mea for supplies. The names of his<br/>
two companions were William Kanui<br/>
and Thomas Hopu.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Obookiah was a singularly intelligent<br/>
youth, and had a wonderful thirst for<br/>
knowledge. Having heard that at<br/>
Yale college young men had the best<br/>
of teachers and acquired knowledge<br/>
rapidly, he ardently wished that he<br/>
too might be favored with the same<br/>
privileges. So much was his heart set<br/>
upon this, that one day he was found<br/>
sitting on the door steps of one of the<br/>
college buildings, "weeping because<br/>
the treasures of knowledge were open<br/>
to others and not open to him." Mr.<br/>
Edwin W. Dwight a pious student at<br/>
Yale saw him thus, had compassion on<br/>
him, and became his religious teacher,<br/>
and the means of his conversion. Such<br/>
was the interest which Obookiah, un-<br/>
der God, created by his extraordinary<br/>
thirst for knowledge, the rapidity with<br/>
which he acquired it, his early con-<br/>
version, and devoted piety, that in<br/>
Dec. 1809 Samuel John Mills writing<br/>
to Gordon Hall from New Haven of his<br/>
interest in young Obookiah, proposed<br/>
that there be missionaries sent to the<br/>
Sandwich Islands. Obookiah grew in<br/>
knowledge and grace rapidly from<br/>
that time onward until the year 1817,<br/>
when the A. B. C. F. M. established a<br/>
mission school at Cornwall Conn. to<br/>
which they appointed Mr. E. W.<br/>
Dwight the first preceptor. Obookiah<br/>
and four other of his countrymen<br/>
constituted half of the first class of<br/>
that school. Obookiah the most pro-<br/>
mising of them all died the next year<br/>
while a member of the class in his 26th<br/>
year of his age. "The published ac-<br/>
counts of his life and death awakened<br/>
great interest among the churches in<br/>
behalf of his people." And the Lord<br/>
then put it into the hearts of two young<br/>
men—viz Hiram Bingham and Asa<br/>
Thurston to offer themselves to the A.<br/>
B. C. F. M. as missionaries for the<br/>
Sandwich Islands, and their offer was<br/>
at once accepted. There were five other<br/>
young men, layman, whom the Lord<br/>
made willing to go with them—-one<br/>
as a physician, two as teachers, one<br/>
as a printer, and one as a farmer. All<br/>
these seven young men in connection<br/>
with their wives were publicly set a-<br/>
part at Boston Oct. 15th 1819 for the<br/>
mission work at the Sandwich Islands.<br/>
And there were besides three pious<br/>
Hawaiian youth, who had been members<br/>
of the Cornwall school, appointed to<br/>
form a part of that mission. Their<br/>
names were Thomas Hopu, William<br/>
Kanui and John Honore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That missionary company embarked<br/>
from Boston the 23rd of October<br/>
1819 in the Brig Thaddeus, Capt.<br/>
Blanchard, and reached the coast of<br/>
Hawaii March 31st 1820. Not a word<br/>
had been heard previous to their de-<br/>
parture from Boston of any change<br/>
having taken place in the idolatry of<br/>
the islands, and hence the missionaries<br/>
had no other thought but that they<br/>
would have "a perilous conflict with<br/>
pagan rites, human sacrifices, and<br/>
bloody altars." Though they had doubt-<br/>
less prayed daily to the God of mis-<br/>
sions that the abolition of idolatry in<br/>
the islands might soon become a glori-<br/>
ous fact, they could scarcely have<br/>
dreamed that it had already taken<br/>
place, even from before the commen-<br/>
cement of their voyage, The first in-<br/>
telligence they had of that wonderful<br/>
event was immediately on reaching<br/>
Hawaii. What language can describe<br/>
the wonder and joy they must have<br/>
had on hearing of it!. And how much<br/>
their gratitude to God must have been<br/>
excited and their faith in him streng-<br/>
thened! How distinctly could they see<br/>
the overruling and guiding hand of our<br/>
king Immanuel in all the events which<br/>
had been preparing the people and them-<br/>
selves for the mission even from the<br/>
time of Obookiah's arrival at N. Haven!<br/>
No longer could they doubt that the<br/>
prayers of that converted heathen that<br/>
devoted follower of Jesus had had great<br/>
power with God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But they had soon to learn that<br/>
king Liholiho together with his chiefs<br/>
and people had not abandoned idolatry<br/>
from any desire of embracing a better<br/>
religion. They not only found him<br/>
and them absolutely without any re-<br/>
ligion, but also apparently satisfied<br/>
with their destitution. They were poly-<br/>
gamists, and seeing that the mission-<br/>
aries had only one wife each, the king<br/>
feared that they would if permitted to<br/>
live on the Islands, dishonor him in<br/>
his practice of polygamy. The king<br/>
had also, as is usual, some foreign res-<br/>
idents about him, who exerted their<br/>
influence in exciting fears in his mind,<br/>
that the missionaries would become<br/>
political intriguers. Hence the ques-<br/>
tion whether they should be allowed<br/>
to reside on any of the Islands was<br/>
discussed full twelve days. Meanwhile<br/>
the missionaries, hoping in God, and<br/>
waiting upon him in prayer, plead their<br/>
case before the king and his court.<br/>
Liholiho was persuaded to visit them<br/>
on shipboard, and he dined with them<br/>
"wearing only a narrow girdle about<br/>
his shoulders, a string of beads around<br/>
his neck, and a feather wreath on his<br/>
head." Hewahewa, who had been the<br/>
king's high priest, favored the mis-<br/>
sionaries. Keopuolani, the king's<br/>
mother is said to have plead with her<br/>
son, that the missionaries might be<br/>
permitted to remain with them. The<br/>
result of the long discussion was that<br/>
on the 12th of April 1820, an order<br/>
from the throne was given to allow<br/>
the missionaries to stop on the Is-<br/>
lands one year, but that the com-<br/>
pany should be divided among the<br/>
different islands—some at Honolulu,<br/>
on Oahu, some at Waimea, on Kauai,<br/>
and some at Kawaihae on Hawaii. It<br/>
would seem that one object of this<br/>
division was to prevent them from<br/>
exerting any political influence that<br/>
might be likely to embarrass the gov-<br/>
ernment, and another to give the<br/>
princes and chiefs on the different is-<br/>
lands an opportunity of being instruc-<br/>
ted by the missionaries. At Kailua,<br/>
Mr. Thurston had for his pupils the<br/>
king and his little brother five years<br/>
old, who subsequently became king<br/>
Kamehameha III, two of the king's<br/>
wives, a lad who afterwards became go-<br/>
vernor of Hawaii, and among other<br/>
lads another who became Judge of the<br/>
Supreme Court of Hawaii.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At that time the Sandwich Is-<br/>
landers had no written language.<br/>
But the missionaries, in a little more<br/>
than two years after their arrival, re-<br/>
duced the spoken language to writing,<br/>
and Mr. Loomis, the mission printer,<br/>
began to employ his press in making<br/>
books. "Twelve letters in all-—five<br/>
vowels and seven consonants express-<br/>
ed every sound, and every syllable<br/>
ended with a vowel!" The written<br/>
language was thus made exceedingly<br/>
simple and easy of acquisition, and<br/>
this is said to be one great reason why<br/>
the Hawaiians made the wonderful<br/>
progress they did in book knowledge<br/>
since letters were introduced among<br/>
them, and why so large a portion of<br/>
the people are now able to read and<br/>
write.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
[Present circumstances seem but too<br/>
clearly to make it our duty to copy the<br/>
following from THE LONDON AND CHINA<br/>
TELEGRAPH of Sept. 5th. We had fervently<br/>
hoped that there would be no more occa-<br/>
sion for us to call public attention again to<br/>
this unwelcome subject. We have no<br/>
idea who the correspondent of the TELE-<br/>
GRAPH from Bangkok can be, But as he<br/>
signs himself OLD SIAM we conclude that<br/>
he does not exactly belong to our party,<br/>
for who does not know that we are Yo UNO[?]<br/>
SIAM up to the hub, Be the writer who<br/>
he may, he is evidently well acquainted<br/>
with the affairs of Bangkok.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The French in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In another column, a correspondent’s<br/>
letter will be found relative to the en-<br/>
croachments of the French in Siam, and<br/>
the general position of that country. We<br/>
have already published a statement that<br/>
demands have been made for a slip of ter-<br/>
ritory sufficient for the purpose of con-<br/>
structing a canal. Now this is certainly<br/>
one of the most preposterous claims ever<br/>
advanced by a Power professing amity<br/>
and friendship. We would fain look on it<br/>
as a friendly act for the improvement and<br/>
development of the kingdom, but the cir-<br/>
cumstances of the case unfortunately estab-<br/>
lish a different view. All persons acquain-<br/>
ted with Siamese affairs will remember<br/>
the unwarrantable action of the French<br/>
Consul-General, M. AUBARET, previous to<br/>
his withdrawal from that post about two<br/>
years since, and it was fully expected by<br/>
the Siamese that the French Government<br/>
would accredit some other functionary; but<br/>
no, M. AUBARET is again at Bangkok, and<br/>
unless some urgent remonstrances are ad-<br/>
dressed by the Siamese Government to the<br/>
Court of the Tuileries, we shall not be sur-<br/>
prised to find that he will follow up his<br/>
demands by the introduction of the French<br/>
troops which are located at Saigon—a con-<br/>
venient distance. There is no disguis-<br/>
ing the intentions of the French, for it is<br/>
transparent that they are now manceu-<br/>
vring a scheme for the commercial improve-<br/>
ment of their possessions in Cochin China<br/>
at the expense of Siam. The propositions<br/>
are so scandalous, however, that even in<br/>
these days of non-intervention we feel sure<br/>
that our Government, as also that of the<br/>
United States, will not quietly stand by<br/>
and see the spoliation of so good an Asia-<br/>
tic ruler as the King of SIAM, who has on<br/>
all occasions promoted the interests of<br/>
British and American commerce. But to<br/>
take a purely selfish view of the matter, it<br/>
will not suit our interests nor those of A-<br/>
merica to allow France to domineer in<br/>
Siam as she has in Cochin China. The Gov-<br/>
ernment and merchants of both England<br/>
and the United States have a settled stake<br/>
in Siam which we cannot see easily wiped<br/>
out by any Power. England and America<br/>
have, with the liberal and intelligent as-<br/>
sistance of the KING, made Siam what she<br/>
is. Even the very concession which the<br/>
French now ask for has already been con-<br/>
ceded to a British merchant, and a good<br/>
deal of money expended in the prelimi-<br/>
naries for cutting a canal through the<br/>
Isthmus of Kraw. It is therefore the com-<br/>
monest justice that we should be supported<br/>
in our claims. No doubt the possession of<br/>
Cochin China (like Mexico) has been found<br/>
a most inconvenient burden to the French<br/>
Treasury, and M. AUBARET has been found<br/>
to contain the necessary genius for altering<br/>
this state of things. We trust however<br/>
that M. AUBARET will not cause any trou-<br/>
ble between the respective Government,<br/>
but negotiate fairly for any concession he<br/>
may require from the Siamese. He knows,<br/>
or should know, that his Imperial master<br/>
cannot and will not sanction anything<br/>
favouring of filibustering. We fear from<br/>
all accounts that M. AUBARET is a very<br/>
unfit man in point of temperament to hold<br/>
the post he has, and the French Foreign<br/>
Minister could not have been aware of the<br/>
discourteous, almost bullying manner, in<br/>
which he discharges his functions towards<br/>
the Government of Siam. French Consuls<br/>
and Diplomats generally understand<br/>
how to combine the suaviter in modo<br/>
with the fortiter in re, and had M.<br/>
AUBARET been trained to the work in the<br/>
proper school no doubt he would as. The<br/>
training of a man of war is certainly not<br/>
suited to acquire the necessary qualifica-<br/>
tions. It is to be regretted that the Si-<br/>
amese Government did not lay a distinct<br/>
complaint against him and protest against<br/>
his re-appointment. We trust that Mr.<br/>
KNOX, our Consul at Bangkok, has kept<br/>
Lord STANLEY well advised as to the pro-<br/>
ceedings we have called attention to, and<br/>
that his lordship will give it the usual<br/>
prompt attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(The following we copy from the LON-<br/>
DON AND CHINA EXPRESS, of Sept. 10th.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since writing the above we have seen<br/>
the following article in GALIGNANI, from<br/>
which it would seem that we have by no<br/>
means over-estimated the adverse inten-<br/>
tions of the French. The writer of the<br/>
article is however in error in stating that<br/>
the concession had been refused to the<br/>
English merchants, and the statement that<br/>
the French propositions had been received<br/>
with marked favour, “inasmuch as the<br/>
reasons which caused just ‘apprehensions<br/>
in the mind of the King in the case of<br/>
England are not applicable to France,<br/>
who does not aim at any territorial con-<br/>
quests in these regions,’ is simply rodo-<br/>
montade:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Bangkok give news of<br/>
that capital down to July 14. The ques-<br/>
tion of piercing the Isthmus of Kraw,<br/>
which separates the Gulf of Bengal from<br/>
that of Siam, had again come under con-<br/>
sideration. A concession for that object<br/>
had formerly been applied for by an Eng-<br/>
lish company, but had been declined by<br/>
the Court of Bangkok in consequence of<br/>
some representations addressed to the<br/>
King of Siam by the Bishop of Mallos,<br/>
then residing in Paris, to the effect that<br/>
it would be dangerous for the preservation<br/>
of the whole Siamese territory to separate<br/>
the northern from the southern portion;<br/>
and the more so that this latter part, very<br/>
remote from the capital by reason of the<br/>
difficulty of communications, lay immedi-<br/>
ately under the hand of England, who al-<br/>
ready possessed important establishments<br/>
in the Malay Straits. A French company<br/>
has now submitted a new project to his<br/>
Majesty, and been received with marked<br/>
favour, inasmuch as the reasons which<br/>
caused just apprehensions in the mind of<br/>
the King in the case of England are not<br/>
applicable to France, who does not aim at<br/>
any territorial conquests in those regions.<br/>
English agents, however, are still makin-<br/>
efforts to obtain from the King the con-<br/>
cessions originally applied for by their fel-<br/>
low-countrymen. In the north of Siam<br/>
difficulties have arisen on the subject of a<br/>
vast territory bearing the name of Chieng-<br/>
mai forming an independent kingdom, but<br/>
still recognizing to a certain extent a<br/>
Siamese protectorate. The Burman Gov-<br/>
ernment having raised pretensions to su-<br/>
zerainty over that territory, a diplomatic<br/>
correspondence has taken place, and the<br/>
belief was that the result would be favour-<br/>
able to Siam. Lastly, the early return to<br/>
Bangkok was announced of M. Aubaret,<br/>
the French Consul, said to be the bearer<br/>
of an autograph letter from the Emperor<br/>
Napoleon to the King, and also the arrival<br/>
of a mission charged to obtain an assurance<br/>
that the scientific expedition which was to<br/>
leave Saigon to reach China by the river<br/>
Me-Kong would be received with kindness<br/>
in all the parts of the kingdom it would<br/>
have to traverse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Consul for Siam writes to THE<br/>
TIMES as follows:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Sir,—An extract from GALIGNANI’S<br/>
MESSENGER, in to-day's impression of<br/>
THE TIMES professes to give information<br/>
from Siam. It is wholly unworthy of cre-<br/>
dit; it is carefully concocted for a particu-<br/>
lar purpose, and calculated to mislead<br/>
those not acquainted with the country and<br/>
Government, which are essentially British<br/>
in interest and feeling.—I am, Sir, yours<br/>
obediently, D. K. MASON.<br/>
“September 6, 1866,” Consul for Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds & Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—What is companionship, where noth-<br/>
ing that improves the intellect is com-<br/>
municated, and where the larger heart<br/>
contracts itself to the model and dimen-<br/>
sions of the smaller?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—If we would have the kindness of<br/>
others we must endure their follies. He<br/>
who cannot persuade himself to withdraw<br/>
from society must be content to pay a<br/>
tribute of his time to a multitude of<br/>
tyrants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—“You have simply tried,” said a sym-<br/>
pathizing friend of Joe Crowdon, weep-<br/>
ing over the coffin of his third wife.<br/>
“Yes,” responded the bereaved one “I<br/>
have always had the dreadfullest luck<br/>
with women.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—An Irishman came to Dr. Russell<br/>
and said, ”Arrah, doctor,’ it is no use at<br/>
all to give me an emetic. I tried it twice<br/>
in Dublin and it would not stay on my<br/>
stomach either time.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A member of a fashionable church<br/>
in New York electrified a music dealer,<br/>
the other day, by inquiring for “Solo-<br/>
mon’s Song,” saying his rector had spok-<br/>
en of it as a production of great genius<br/>
and beauty, and he wanted his daughter<br/>
to learn it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—He who thinks better of his neigh-<br/>
bors than they deserve, cannot be a bad<br/>
man, for the standard by which his judg-<br/>
ment is formed is the goodness of his<br/>
own heart. It is the base only who be-<br/>
lieve all men base, or, in other words,<br/>
like themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—”A friend of mine,” said Erskine,<br/>
“was suffering from a continual wake-<br/>
fulness, and various methods were tried<br/>
to bring him sleep. At last his physicians<br/>
resorted to an expedient which succeed-<br/>
ed admirably. They dressed him in a<br/>
watchman’s coat, put a lantern in his<br/>
hand, placed him in a sentry-box, and—-<br/>
he was asleep in ten minutes.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Dutchman’s temperance lecture:<br/>
“I shall tell you how it vas. I put mine<br/>
hand on mine head, and there vas von<br/>
big pain. Then I put mine hand on<br/>
mine pody and there vas an oder. There<br/>
vas very much pains in all mine pody.<br/>
Then I put mine hand in mine pocket,<br/>
and there vas noting. So I fined mit de<br/>
temperance. Now those vas no more<br/>
pain in mine head. The pain in mine<br/>
pody vas all gone away. I put mine<br/>
hand in mine pocket, and there vas<br/>
twenty dollars. So I shall shtay mit de<br/>
temperance.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Scotch clergyman did not satisfy<br/>
by prolonging a certain portion of his<br/>
flock. “Why, sir,” said they, “we think<br/>
you dinna tell enough about renoun-<br/>
cing our own righteousness!” “Renoun-<br/>
cing your own righteousness!” cried the<br/>
astonished doctor, “I never saw any you<br/>
had to renounce!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—It is very easy to look down on oth-<br/>
ers; to look down on ourselves is the<br/>
difficulty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The attempt to read many books of-<br/>
ten ends in thoroughly reading notes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Among the advertisements in a late<br/>
London paper, we read that “Two sisters<br/>
want washing.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Geology is Time’s own biography,<br/>
printed, pages collated and bound by the<br/>
fragments of Omnipotence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—At the North pole, go whatever way<br/>
you will, you go due south; and at the<br/>
utmost height of joy you can move only<br/>
toward sorrow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—England is unterrified in regard to<br/>
the Fenian invasion; there is no pity-Pat<br/>
about her heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A person may believe as he pleases<br/>
about things; but things will not, there-<br/>
fore, be as he pleases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—When once infidelity can persuade<br/>
men that they shall live like beasts, they<br/>
will soon be brought to live like beasts<br/>
also.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Thou may’st be more happy than<br/>
ever were Alexander and Caesar, if thou<br/>
wilt be more virtuous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Our prayers and God’s mercy are<br/>
like two buckets in a well—while the one<br/>
ascends the other descends.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Piracy and Murder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The act of piracy and murder which<br/>
we record to-day is a cold-blooded and<br/>
deliberate atrocity ; which, their is every<br/>
reason to believe, was prepared for within<br/>
the limits of Hongkong harbour, as the<br/>
first act of a VENDETTA that is to revenge<br/>
the execution of Chat Tai and his accom-<br/>
plices. The circumstances of the case<br/>
may be briefly told. The LUBRA, an<br/>
American schooner, left the harbour at<br/>
11 o'clock in the morning of Saturday<br/>
last, bound to Japan. On the following<br/>
day, when about 75 miles from the har-<br/>
bour, 30 miles off Pedro Branco, a large<br/>
piratical boat sailed and pulled alongside,<br/>
the wind having fallen away to less than<br/>
a knot and a half per hour. Without<br/>
loss of time the schooner was boarded,<br/>
without any resistance being offered ; the<br/>
vessel being badly armed, and the Captain<br/>
(Howes) apparently unsuspicious of the<br/>
character of the boat. The pirates kept<br/>
possession of the schooner for some hours,<br/>
and having shot some of the crew who<br/>
took to the rigging, killing one man and<br/>
wounding other, finished their work by<br/>
deliberately shooting the Captain. He<br/>
was seated in his cabin, on a sofa, with<br/>
his wife and two children, one only two<br/>
months old. One of the scoundrels went<br/>
up to him and fired a pistol bullet through<br/>
his brain, and killing him instantly. Mrs<br/>
Howes, and the crew remaining alive,<br/>
were reserved for death in another shape.<br/>
There were some barrels of gunpowder<br/>
on board. The head of one of these bar-<br/>
rels was broken in and the powder expos-<br/>
ed. Fire, of which the marks are plainly<br/>
visible, was placed in the vicinity, but<br/>
the villainous design of blowing up the<br/>
vessel, with the living witnesses of the<br/>
crime that had already been committed,<br/>
was frustrated. The fire burnt out, with-<br/>
out communicating with the powder, and<br/>
the vessel was brought back to Hongkong<br/>
by the mate and the remaining crew. The<br/>
bodies of the Captain and one of the men,<br/>
were taken to the civil Hospital ; another<br/>
man who was wounded by the pirates<br/>
jumped or fell overboard, and was drow-<br/>
ned. The Ayah also died this morning :<br/>
the others are said to be recovering from<br/>
their wounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pirate who murdered the unfortu-<br/>
nate Captain made use of expressions pre-<br/>
vious to firing the pistol, that clearly<br/>
evidenced the intent with which the schoo-<br/>
ner was following up. It is no secret that<br/>
the punishment inflicted upon Chat Tai<br/>
and his gang is to be revenged, and it<br/>
matters little to those who have sworn to<br/>
the VENDETTA what may be the "nation-<br/>
ality" of the foreigners who may fall into<br/>
their hands. English or American, Dutch<br/>
or Prussian—all are included in the category<br/>
of intended victims. We do not say this<br/>
with the mere purpose of creating unneces-<br/>
sary alarm, for we know it is a fact that<br/>
the energy with which the prosecution of<br/>
the gang headed by Chat Tai was followed<br/>
up, coupled with the activity of the English<br/>
gunboats, and dread of the registration<br/>
ordinance, have driven to desperation the<br/>
scoundrels who live by piracy.—OVERLAND<br/>
CHINA MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A remarkable Cure.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A young man wanted to marry a girl<br/>
out in Wisconsin, but her rich parents<br/>
forbade the match. The young man be-<br/>
came sick—-very sick—-and had terrible<br/>
fainting fits. The doctors were called,<br/>
and he would soon die, and he said<br/>
he wanted to. The father of the girl<br/>
visited the patient, and agreed with both<br/>
him and the doctors. The poor fellow<br/>
said that if he could marry his Mary Ann<br/>
he would die happily. His dying request<br/>
certainly could not be refused, and Mary<br/>
Ann, having no objections, the minister<br/>
was sent for, and the solemn ordinance<br/>
of marriage was performed before the<br/>
most solemn messenger of death should<br/>
step in to snatch away the gasping bride-<br/>
groom from time to the regions of eter-<br/>
nity. The knot being securely tied, the<br/>
patient rose from the bed a well man. It<br/>
was a great cure, astonishing both the<br/>
cruel “parent” and the doctors, but the<br/>
bride acted as though she had expected<br/>
it all the time.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—No one of my fellows can do that<br/>
special work for me which I have come<br/>
into the world to do. He may do a high-<br/>
er work, a greater work—but he cannot<br/>
do MY work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—At an examination of the College of<br/>
Surgeons, a candidate was asked by Ab-<br/>
ernethy—"What would you do if a man<br/>
was blown up with powder?" "Wait<br/>
until he came down," was the reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A man came home drunk on a cold<br/>
night, and vomited in a basket containing<br/>
goslings, which his wife had placed be-<br/>
fore the fire, upon seeing which, he ex-<br/>
claimed, "Oh! wife! wife! when did I<br/>
swallow them things?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}An arm of aid to the weak,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}A friendly hand to the friendless,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Kind words so short to speak,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}But whose echo is endless.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The world is wide, these things are small.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}They may be nothing, but they may be all.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
—A man in England imagined that he<br/>
had the rinderpest. His physicians un-<br/>
able to convince him to the contrary,<br/>
gave him a sealed prescription with which<br/>
he hurried to the druggist. His bad<br/>
symptoms immediately left him when the<br/>
clerk opened it and read: "This man<br/>
has the cattle plague; take him into the<br/>
back yard and shoot him according to<br/>
law."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
London Letters.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LONDON, AUGUST 10th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PEACE is again restored to Europe. The<br/>
preliminaries are settled. The result of<br/>
the war is the utter prostration and hum-<br/>
iliation of Austria, whom Bismarck has<br/>
ignominiously kicked out of the German<br/>
confederation, and has bound never to at-<br/>
tempt to enter it. Thus ends the drama of<br/>
the unification of Germany and the glori-<br/>
fication of Prussia, and all through the<br/>
genius of one man, and the murderous ef-<br/>
ficacy of the needle-gun. Bismarck has re-<br/>
served to himself the privilege of taking<br/>
as much territory as suits him, and of do-<br/>
ing with all the princes and people of Ger-<br/>
many as he lists. The despotism acquired<br/>
by Bismarck in two months is as great, and<br/>
may be as galling as that of Napoleon or<br/>
Attila. Europe stands aghast at his un-<br/>
fathomable audacity and incomprehensible<br/>
success. He is for the moment the sole<br/>
arbiter of Europe, the map of which he is<br/>
remodelling as pleases his own will. It is<br/>
curious to see how the influence of France,<br/>
which in June was considered omnipotent,<br/>
is elbowed out of Europe in August. She<br/>
who was the prime mover in the European<br/>
commonwealth, is suddenly reduced to a<br/>
subordinate position. With such contempt<br/>
is France treated by the great Bismarck,<br/>
that he has not condescended to name the<br/>
Emperor in the royal speech. Italy is<br/>
treated with the same sovereign contempt.<br/>
There is much truth in the bitter remark<br/>
of the liberal French papers, as far as they<br/>
are allowed to speak, that just before the<br/>
war commenced Napoleon held the balance<br/>
of power in his own hands and might have<br/>
stopped the war by lifting up his finger;<br/>
but he allowed the opportunity to slip, and<br/>
now the balance is in the hands of Bis-<br/>
mark. Yet I have no doubt that if we<br/>
could see all the reasoning which deter-<br/>
mined the course of that imperial intellect,<br/>
we should not fail to admire it. Be that<br/>
as it may, the opportunity for the present<br/>
is gone, and Prussia, that is Bismarck, is<br/>
for the present the great ruling power of<br/>
the Continent. Yet there is a ceaseless<br/>
fluctuation in human affairs, and it is not<br/>
to be supposed that he will be allowed al-<br/>
ways to dictate to Europe. No one ob-<br/>
jects to the unity of Germany, and we had<br/>
rather see a Protestant power at the head<br/>
of it than a stolid and conservative Catho-<br/>
lic power; but the balance of power in Eu-<br/>
rope must not be permanently disordered.<br/>
We want however two millions of breech-<br/>
loaders before we can think of a restora-<br/>
tion of the equilibrium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is just possible that the Italians may<br/>
renew the war with Austria, and get an-<br/>
other licking. Not content with Venetia,<br/>
they are clamouring for a larger slice of<br/>
the Austrian possessions, and the Italian<br/>
Tyrol and Trent. But it is said the Dicta-<br/>
tor at Berlin will not allow any such pre-<br/>
tensions to impede the settlement he has<br/>
in hand. If they are persisted in, he will<br/>
leave Austria and Italy to fight it out; and<br/>
it is certain that the Italians have not<br/>
shone in this campaign. They have not<br/>
only been beaten by land, but the descend-<br/>
ants of Columbus have allowed themselves<br/>
to be beaten on his element by a fleet of<br/>
Germans. But we must leave the Contin-<br/>
ent to attend to matters of domestic inter-<br/>
est, to the sad roll of English calamity<br/>
written within and without with lamenta-<br/>
tion and woe. The cholera is devastating<br/>
the country, and, in London, our means<br/>
and appliances for meeting it are found to<br/>
be utterly inadequate. It is at present of<br/>
the most virulent character, as the number<br/>
of deaths greatly exceed the recoveries.<br/>
It is travelling through various parts of of<br/>
the country, but the chief mortality is in Lon-<br/>
don; and in London is confined chiefly to<br/>
the east, to the overcrowded parishes, the<br/>
permanent abode of filth and malaria<br/>
where the people by the hundred live in<br/>
hovels to which the dog kennels of the<br/>
aristocracy are palaces. The most ener-<br/>
getic efforts are made to afford relief, not<br/>
only by subscriptions which can at any<br/>
time be raised by the thousand, but by<br/>
personal exertions and a thorough organi-<br/>
zation of visitors and medical attendants,<br/>
to succour those who are attacked, and if<br/>
possible to stay the progress of this pestil-<br/>
ence. {{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Ministry, I mean the Tory Ministry,<br/>
as I told you would be the case—-I am, you<br/>
see, a better prophet than Dr. C. who is<br/>
ever postponing the millenium—-have eaten<br/>
the whitebait dinner which was originally<br/>
destined for the liberals. There is a fine<br/>
caricature in PUNCH, which beautifully<br/>
expresses the delight which beamed in the<br/>
countenances of Lord Derby and his lieu-<br/>
tenant, when they found themselves finish-<br/>
ing the session at Greenwich. There is no<br/>
doubt that some of them said some very<br/>
good things, only they have not been<br/>
chronicled. Well, the new broom is sweep-<br/>
ing very clean, and there appears to be a<br/>
very large accumulation of rubbish to be<br/>
got rid of. Lord Palmerston's popularity,<br/>
like charity, covered and concealed a mul-<br/>
titude of sins. Under cover of his broad<br/>
shield, all the departments, the Treasury<br/>
excepted, slumbered and slept. It is now<br/>
discovered that there has been incredible<br/>
neglect and inconceivable jobbery at the<br/>
Admiralty; the department which has al-<br/>
ways been the most bumptious, and has in-<br/>
dignantly resented any interference of<br/>
Parliament; but of this in my next letter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are to have a weekly mail to Bom-<br/>
bay as soon as possible, and notice has<br/>
been given to the P. & O. Company of the<br/>
termination of their contract. They will<br/>
of course tender for the contract under the<br/>
new arrangement.-— FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraphic Summary for
Europe and India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[We give the subjoined brief heads of<br/>
current events during the past 14 days,<br/>
for the convenience of telegraphic agents<br/>
along the homeward route, and shall con-<br/>
tinue to do so by every mail:-—]<br/>
HONGKONG, 27TH SEPTEMBER, 1869.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prospectus issued of Railway between<br/>
Shanghae and Fuchau.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An American Company, including large<br/>
China merchants, have obtained leave<br/>
from the Emperor to lay submarine cable<br/>
from the North to Hongkong, connecting<br/>
intermediate cities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Piracy and murder committed by Cin-<br/>
ese pirates on board American schooner<br/>
LUBRA, on September 28, about 75 miles<br/>
from Hongkong. The Captain (Howes)<br/>
was deliberately shot through the head in<br/>
his cabin, in the arms of his wife; one<br/>
seaman killed, several wounded, one of<br/>
whom fell overboard and was drowned.<br/>
The crime was committed in revenge for<br/>
the execution of other pirates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agitation against the Stamp Act in<br/>
Hongkong has ceased. The Committee<br/>
appointed to frame a protest to the Secre-<br/>
tary for the Colonies, against His Excel-<br/>
lency's policy, have not as yet performed<br/>
their task.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Memorial against Stamp Act from<br/>
Amoy residents forwarded to the Gover-<br/>
nor. H. E. replies unfavourably to their<br/>
views.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Difficulty in making Chinese accept the<br/>
new Dollar. Governor issued a procla-<br/>
mation, making it a legal tender.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chinese disapprove strongly of the<br/>
new ordinance for registering junk, &c.<br/>
It affords, however, the only means by<br/>
which the fitting out of piratical junks in<br/>
this harbour can be prevented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two Macao crimps summarily executed<br/>
for manstealing on the mainland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Japanese purchased several steamers<br/>
including DUMBARTON. KASHTON[?] late<br/>
British gun-boat, fired upon by Shoogoon's<br/>
forts in Straits of Simoneseki.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reported death of Tycoon, wants con-<br/>
firmation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A fearful typhoon between Japan and<br/>
Shanghae. DUPLEIK[?] and NIPHON[?] safely<br/>
weathered it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Coolie trade at Macao flourishing with<br/>
increased vigour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hon. W. T. Mercer retired to<br/>
Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No news of importance from Northern<br/>
Ports. French Admiral and one vessel<br/>
at Chefoo awaiting squadron before pro-<br/>
ceeding to Corea to demand satisfaction<br/>
for murder of French missionaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tonnage abundent Em ployment scant.<br/>
Rates declined to £1 for London and £2<br/>
for Melbourne per ton of 50 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAI RAWT would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he is prepared to<br/>
paint pictures of the peculiar fruits<br/>
flowers, and leaves of the country in a<br/>
style which he has been encouraged to<br/>
hope will be quite acceptable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His place of residence is on the Ca-<br/>
nal Padoong krasem opposite Wat Kok<br/>
near the ricefields on the east side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prices of the several pictures<br/>
are as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A branch with fruit and flowers is<br/>
1 Tical. But if the buyer takes sev-<br/>
eral pictures of the same kind the<br/>
price will be only ½ of a Tical
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the buyer wishes a compound pic-<br/>
ture of several branches, having several<br/>
kinds of fruit, the price will be 2 Tic-<br/>
als. And if of such pictures several<br/>
be taken the price will be 1½ Ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the purchaser must furnish the<br/>
paper for the pictures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the purchaser wishes to have the<br/>
interior of the fruit represented it shall<br/>
be done
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.<br/>
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDOUARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co.<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok, and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,<br/>
E. SCHMIDT.<br/>
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-18_4_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MENAM ROADS,<br/>
AND BANGKOK, MAIL<br/>
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:<br/>
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar,.... $5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,<br/>
$10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SHIPS SUPPLIED WITH STOCK AT<br/>
SHORT NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DYER & CO.<br/>
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (L.f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
