---
linkTitle: 'January 13rd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - January 13rd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); January 13rd'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 25
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, SATURDAY, JANUARY 13th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 1.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Life and Speeches of Andrew
Johnson.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
By Little, Brown & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man, raised to so important a<br/>
post as President Johnson's, in such a<br/>
critical hour, can be otherwise than<br/>
an object of especial consideration.<br/>
In his hands have been placed, by the<br/>
providence of God, the immediate<br/>
future of this republic. We say "im-<br/>
mediate," because no man can perman-<br/>
ently thwart or destroy the announced<br/>
decrees of God. He may stay their<br/>
progress; he may, if supported by wick-<br/>
ed subjects, destroy their advocates;<br/>
but through God's chastising hand<br/>
we must receive the blessings at last<br/>
that we have refused to the call of his<br/>
spirit, working in our corrupted con-<br/>
sciences and rebellious hearts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson, therefore, is an<br/>
instrument of God's, if he will work<br/>
with him; if not, he will be rejected<br/>
of him, and the nation with him be re-<br/>
jected, until they shall repent and elect<br/>
rulers that will rule in righteousness.<br/>
Called to the throne of the popular<br/>
will by a fearful calamity, we may not<br/>
perhaps expect properly of him all<br/>
that we should have demanded of<br/>
one who had been selected as our<br/>
standard-bearer. The chair it was<br/>
intended that he should fill is of<br/>
slight importance in itself. In that he<br/>
would have served his country un-<br/>
doubtedly with sufficient ability; the<br/>
chair to which he is elevated is of un-<br/>
speakable importance, and how he<br/>
shall carry himself in his high estate<br/>
is yet unknown fully, even to himself.<br/>
His speeches and past life are our chief<br/>
guarantees; for men in office never<br/>
radically diverge from the character<br/>
which their former career has disclosed.<br/>
Lincoln was the same in the log but<br/>
that he was in Washington. Seward<br/>
has pursued the same career as Secre-<br/>
tary that he did as senator; Sumner<br/>
as a statesman that he did as an orator.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What does this life teach us that<br/>
we may look for in the man? He is a<br/>
positive man. From the beginning he<br/>
has been willing to take the respon-<br/>
sibility. He sees clearly what he sees<br/>
at all, and is very square and prompt<br/>
in his statement of his views. Through-<br/>
out this volume are evidences of this<br/>
characteristic. He is for the Union.<br/>
No hint in his speeches is there of<br/>
wavering in this attachment. From<br/>
the first rising of this cloud, when no<br/>
bigger than a man's hand, he detected<br/>
and denounced its mischievous con-<br/>
tents. His speeches upon this theme<br/>
are by far his ablest. In them burns<br/>
the whole fury of his soul. No speaker<br/>
of the winter of '61 was so vehement, so<br/>
steady, so inspiring in this sentiment<br/>
as he. Principle weakened seeming-<br/>
ly the seal of the Republican—for<br/>
Union then meant, apparently, slavery;<br/>
policy sapped the strength of the<br/>
Northern Democrat—for Union meant<br/>
coercion, and from that he shrank;<br/>
while the defiant South was of one<br/>
heart, and soul, and mind, and strength<br/>
against the national bond. Among<br/>
them all he stood faithful to the single<br/>
idea of Union. He declared it could<br/>
not, as well as should not, be destroyed;<br/>
and in words of fire blazed upon its<br/>
enemies. True, he disregarded higher<br/>
principles, he even denounced them,<br/>
because they seemed to stand in the<br/>
way of the Union. But he would em-<br/>
brace them if they subserved this end,<br/>
as he would cast away his favorite in-<br/>
stitution of slavery if it resisted it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He is a frank man. Like most<br/>
positive men, he is open. One sees<br/>
clearly what he means. There is no<br/>
subterfuge about him. What he wants<br/>
done, he will fight to do—openly,<br/>
yet fairly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These are his chief traits; how do<br/>
they adapt him to the place and hour?<br/>
The test of the Union is past. It was<br/>
past before he came to the chair of state.<br/>
Whatever troubles the South may<br/>
cause, they will never threaten disunion<br/>
again. Could they put Jeff. Davis<br/>
into the presidency of the republic, he<br/>
would have unlearned that word.<br/>
What is the duty? The democratizing<br/>
of the nation. The Union is preser-<br/>
ved; democracy is yet unaccomplished.<br/>
Gov. Perry declares that this is a<br/>
white man's government. With a<br/>
majority of colored men in his state,<br/>
to a body of secessionists, some of<br/>
whom are yet unpardoned, he has the<br/>
impudence to make this declaration.<br/>
It is the inaugural word of the new<br/>
conflict. How will it be met by the<br/>
President? Hints in his later speeches<br/>
are all that afford us light in this<br/>
volume. Did they say this white<br/>
man's government shall stand in spite<br/>
of the Union, we should know where<br/>
to find him; but they are too crafty to<br/>
openly wage war with him on that<br/>
issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Is he a true democrat? Will he ad-<br/>
vocate the rights of man as man? Or<br/>
will Southern prejudice and Northern,<br/>
too, alas! beguile him from his stead-<br/>
fastness? He stood almost alone for<br/>
the Union pure and simple; will he<br/>
thus stand for Manhood? Will the<br/>
despised tailor grasp the equally but<br/>
not more despised barber-brother by<br/>
the hand, and place him his equal at<br/>
his side? Will the child of honest but<br/>
socially contemned parents link his<br/>
fame and fortunes with those of equally<br/>
honest and hardly less contemned<br/>
"trash" of a duskier hue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The volume gives some favorable<br/>
answers to these all important queries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In answer to his nomination for the<br/>
Vice-Presidency, at a mass meeting in<br/>
Nashville, he said, speaking directly<br/>
to the blacks: "I desire that all men<br/>
shall have a fair start and an equal<br/>
chance in the race of life, and let him<br/>
succeed who has the most merit. This,<br/>
I think, is a principle of heaven." This<br/>
doctrine inevitably involves their citi-<br/>
zenship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, speaking to them, he declar-<br/>
ed "that the hour had come when<br/>
worth and merit, without regard to<br/>
color, should be the standard by which<br/>
to judge the value of a man." —-p. 35.<br/>
And again: "Rebellion and slavery<br/>
shall, by God's good help, no longer<br/>
pollute our state. Loyal men,<br/>
whether white or black, shall alone<br/>
control her destinies. And when<br/>
this strife in which we are all engaged<br/>
is passed, I trust, I know, we shall<br/>
have a better state of things, and shall<br/>
all rejoice that honest labor reaps the<br/>
fruit of its own industry, and that<br/>
every man has a fair chance in the race<br/>
of life." True, these hopeful words<br/>
are all found in two serenade speeches,<br/>
delivered in the streets of Nashville.<br/>
They are not his authorized and of-<br/>
ficial statements. That statement<br/>
remains to be made. We trust that<br/>
he will keep the light he then attain-<br/>
ed. If he does, this volume will be<br/>
eagerly read by all coming ages, as<br/>
the first fruits of a soul that, provident-<br/>
ially lifted to the highest earthly seat,<br/>
exalted himself far higher than his<br/>
place by crushing an ungodly caste,<br/>
annihilating a profound and ancient<br/>
prejudice, and making democracy,<br/>
not a thing of shreds and patches,<br/>
of aristocratic exclusion and contempt,<br/>
but a true, actual, universal fact. If<br/>
he does not, he will subside, as have<br/>
the two similarly made Presidents be-<br/>
fore him, into powerlessness, ignominy,<br/>
and obscurity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
May his coming and immediate<br/>
acts make his work immortal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. Y. Independent
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cholera.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late sanitary discussions in Eu-<br/>
rope, have called forth some remarks<br/>
which may prove both interesting and<br/>
valuable to us out here. It seems that<br/>
the late visitation of Cholera has been<br/>
traced back to Mecca and to the mot-<br/>
ley fanatics that gather there from all<br/>
parts of the world. We extract from<br/>
a long article on the subject in the Dai-<br/>
ly Telegraph the following two para-<br/>
graphs which give a somewhat startling<br/>
picture of the sanitary condition of the<br/>
Shrine of the Prophet; and the picture<br/>
should interest us not a little when we<br/>
reflect that the pestilence may travel<br/>
Eastward as well as Westward, and<br/>
that though our pilgrims may not car-<br/>
ry Cholera hence, as the writer suppo-<br/>
ses, they may bring it back here with<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Our neighbours, the French, have<br/>
hit the right nail on the head as re-<br/>
gards cholera. What the essential na-<br/>
ture of the disease is, neither they,<br/>
nor we, nor any of the nations that<br/>
suffer from it can yet make out. What<br/>
portion of the organism its subtle virus<br/>
first attacks, how that virus is propo-<br/>
gated, and whether or not there exists<br/>
a specific against its fatal incidence,<br/>
these are all unsolved problems. But<br/>
the local sourse of each visitation is al-<br/>
ways open to discovery, and always<br/>
well worth searching for, and that is<br/>
what the French have very wisely been<br/>
investigating, in view of the terrible<br/>
mortality which has scourged their<br/>
southern cities. Their conclusion, we<br/>
do not hesitate to declare, is the right<br/>
one. The cholera of 1865, which has<br/>
certainly numbered its victims already<br/>
by hundreds of thousands, started on<br/>
its fatal march along the borders of<br/>
the Mediterranean from Mecca. At the<br/>
beginning of this year there was, it is<br/>
true, a prevalence of the same pest in<br/>
parts of India, the Straits, and China;<br/>
and the fact tends to confirm the opin-<br/>
ion that the scourge co-exists with def-<br/>
inite atmospherical conditions, which<br/>
may be very general indeed. But Mec-<br/>
ca was the point whence the dreadful<br/>
disease set out to devastate the West<br/>
and South, and Mecca certainly did<br/>
not import it from India. In the ear-<br/>
lier part of 1865 the concourse of “had-<br/>
jis” at the holy Arabian cities was im-<br/>
mence. All the caravans were crowded;<br/>
the one from Damascus was the largest<br/>
that had been known for years; and a<br/>
vast influx pressed to Mecca and Me-<br/>
dina by the way of the Red Sea and<br/>
Jeddah. Cholera broke out among the<br/>
pilgrims, and they perished by thou-<br/>
sands; the road from the sea to the<br/>
shrine was lined with sick and dying,<br/>
the Sheikh of Mecca shut himself up in<br/>
a khan, but in spite of swallowing un-<br/>
limited verses of the Koran written on<br/>
leaves and smeared with honey, he<br/>
fell a victim; and the caravan started<br/>
homeward reduced already by a third.<br/>
Egypt is nearest to the Kaaba, and E-<br/>
gypt received the plague first from<br/>
the dirty fanatics. How it raged there<br/>
is well known. Busy Alexandria was<br/>
paralysed with terror; Cairo was once<br/>
more a “city of plague;” and the Vice-<br/>
roy disgusted Europe by bolting in<br/>
frantic fear from a visitor who certain-<br/>
ly does not care for “hattis” or prin-<br/>
ces. Wherever those caravans march-<br/>
ed in the return journey they left long<br/>
lines of graves; at every halting-place<br/>
they marked the spot with a Golgo-<br/>
tha. Jaffa took the cholera from them<br/>
and Jerusalem; as did Smyrna and Bei-<br/>
rut; and just so soon as the ragged, fil-<br/>
thy horde arrived in that plain outside<br/>
Damascus— where you may see the<br/>
tomb of St. George, and the wall from<br/>
which St. Paul was lowered—the fright-<br/>
ful pestilence appeared in the city.<br/>
We doubt, indeed, whether Constanti-<br/>
nople, though it took the plague early,<br/>
suffered until the richer hadjis had<br/>
reached the Golden Horn, and brought<br/>
the fell messenger with them. Perhaps<br/>
the French commissioners have been<br/>
able to ascertain that such was the case;<br/>
at all events, we hold their conclusion<br/>
an infrangable one, that the visitation<br/>
of this year had its source in the horde<br/>
of Mussulman devotees at the shrine<br/>
of the Prophet. This conclusion has<br/>
been formulated and addressed to his<br/>
Majesty the Emperor of the French,<br/>
under the signatures of the Ministers<br/>
M. Drouyn de Lhuys and M. Behic,<br/>
with a recommendation that a Diplo-<br/>
matic Conference be held "to propose<br/>
"practical measures for the better<br/>
"organization of the sanitary service<br/>
"of the East."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Straits Times.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russian Railways
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Russians are making a trans-<br/>
Caucasian railway, to connect Poti on<br/>
the Black sea with Bakou on the Cas-<br/>
pian. Several thousand soldiers are en-<br/>
gaged on the works. This is part of<br/>
the great design of Russia to form a<br/>
line of military posts, which shall make<br/>
its old frontier and present base invul-<br/>
nerable, all along Central Asia from the<br/>
Amour province on the east by the<br/>
Lake Issyk Kul, the Aral and the Caspian<br/>
to the Black Sea. Some time ago the<br/>
Russians made overtures to an English<br/>
engineer, with the view of inducing<br/>
him to survey the country for a railway<br/>
from Peshawar to the Caspian. After<br/>
studying the subject he declared that<br/>
there were no insuperable physical dif-<br/>
ficulties, but the expense would be<br/>
such as to forbid English capital at-<br/>
tempting such a work. The Russians<br/>
have now command of the Oxus from<br/>
the Sea of Aral to its source in the<br/>
Hindoo Koosh, and a fleet of steamers<br/>
in both Aral and Caspian. For a time<br/>
this will be sufficient for their wants,<br/>
but a power that recruits its vast Cau-<br/>
casus army with Poles and Cossacks,<br/>
and uses its soldiers to make railways,<br/>
is not likely to be long without a line<br/>
from the Poti and Bakou railway<br/>
southeast to its frontier and ours.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Attack of Pirates
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Report of Siamese Barque "Sen-<br/>
ator" Capt. Thomson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Left Hongkong at 3 A. M. 13th Dec.<br/>
1865 bound for Bangkok, light easter-<br/>
ly winds, 10 A. M. passed Linting and<br/>
steered for the Tytami Channel. Saw<br/>
a junk coming from under the Lema<br/>
island, which sheered in company with<br/>
us, at about one and a half miles dis-<br/>
tance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Towards dusk, getting clear of<br/>
Tytami Channel, she closed more in<br/>
with the ship, it being a light breeze<br/>
at the time, the ship going 8 knots.<br/>
The junk being the fastest sailer, got<br/>
ahead of us about two miles, when she<br/>
hauled her foresail aback, apparently to<br/>
wait for us. This looked rather sus-<br/>
picious.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I then set all possible studding<br/>
sails, and keeping away two points, got<br/>
the guns loaded. Those on board of<br/>
the junks no sooner perceived us keep-<br/>
ing away, than they altered their course<br/>
too; and followed us again, she gained<br/>
fast upon us, and a little after sunset<br/>
we could see at least 12 men upon her<br/>
deck; where previously there had only<br/>
been three in sight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seeing them getting stinkpots aloft<br/>
and maneuvering so as to keep the<br/>
junk always close to us, I watched a<br/>
chance to fire a gun at them effectual-<br/>
ly, as there would have been no time<br/>
to reload, when suddenly they opened<br/>
a heavy fire of musketry upon us,<br/>
which laid the mate senseless on deck,<br/>
with a ball in the pit of his stomach,<br/>
and several of the crew were wounded,<br/>
which so panic struck the remainder,<br/>
as well as the Chinese, that they all de-<br/>
serted the deck, some going below<br/>
others aloft. During the confusion<br/>
the pirates (now numbering about 30<br/>
men) had no trouble in boarding us,<br/>
and levelling their pieces at those aloft<br/>
ordered them to come down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seeing myself utterly defenceless,<br/>
I got away forward over the bows and<br/>
laid hold of one of the bobstays. The<br/>
pirates having let go one of the anch-<br/>
ors, one of them looked over the bows<br/>
to see the cable, and seeing me told<br/>
me to come up or he would fire at me.<br/>
When I had got on deck again he shew-<br/>
ed me all his arms, consisting of a French<br/>
patent revolver, polished, cutlass and<br/>
a musket, at the same time saying that<br/>
every one of the pirates were armed<br/>
in the same manner. When he under-<br/>
stood that I was the master of the ves-<br/>
sel, he threatened again to shoot me.<br/>
They then dragged me to the main<br/>
hatch, and put two sentinels over me,<br/>
keeping me there about two hours,<br/>
when they dragged me into the cabin,<br/>
where they had turned every thing up-<br/>
side down, and devoured every thing<br/>
found palatable, every now and then<br/>
some one of them demanded where<br/>
the money was hidden and threatened<br/>
to take my life if I did not tell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During this time the mate was ly-<br/>
ing in his berth in a pitiful state, when<br/>
one of the cowardly rascals fired an-<br/>
other bullet into his back.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the time they kept me sit-<br/>
ting on the main hatch, I could see an-<br/>
other junk, but not being allowed to<br/>
to rise, I could not observe her move-<br/>
ments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the pirates had satisfied<br/>
their avarice they prepared to leave,<br/>
when the Captain forced me to shew<br/>
him all my charts and chronometer,<br/>
and point out to him all the principle<br/>
ports in the Formosa Channel, which<br/>
charts he took with him. About 2 A.<br/>
M. Dec. 14th the pirates left me and<br/>
steered for the island again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After mustering the crew, I found<br/>
three others more or less wounded.<br/>
After heaving up the anchor, which<br/>
the pirates had let go, we made sail to<br/>
return to Hongkong. At daylight no<br/>
land was visible. Noon Dec. 14th<br/>
found myself 40 miles South of the As-<br/>
ses Ear, when the mate died of his<br/>
wounds. Finding it impossible to reach<br/>
Hongkong, it blowing strong from the<br/>
N. K. I kept away, and shaped a course<br/>
for Saigon, to obtain medical assistance<br/>
for the rest of the wounded. Dec. 15th<br/>
at Noon, on the Macclesfield bank one<br/>
of the wounded (a topman) died. The<br/>
rest of the crew having recovered, we<br/>
proceeded for Bangkok, and arrived<br/>
outside the bar without any other mis-<br/>
hap at 2 A. M. Dec. 27th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THOMAS THOMSEN
Master of the "Senator"
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Checking Prespiration
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Edward Everett, the finished scholar,<br/>
the accomplished diplomatist, the ora-<br/>
tor, the salesman, the patriot, became<br/>
overheated by testifying in a court room,<br/>
on Monday morning, went to Faneuil<br/>
Hall, which was cold, sat in a draft of<br/>
air until his turn came to speak; "but<br/>
my hands and feet were ice, my lungs<br/>
on fire. In this condition, I had to go<br/>
and spend three hours in the court-<br/>
room," he died in less than a week from<br/>
this checking of the perspiration. It<br/>
was enough to kill any man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professor Mitchell, the gallant sol-<br/>
dier and the most eloquent astronomi-<br/>
cal lecturer that has ever lived, while<br/>
in a state of perspiration in yellow<br/>
fever, the certain sign of recovery,<br/>
left his bed, went into another room,<br/>
became chilled in a moment and died<br/>
the same night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If while perspiring, or while some-<br/>
thing warmer than usual, from exer-<br/>
cise or a heated room, there is a sud-<br/>
den exposure in stillness, to a still cold<br/>
air, or to a raw damp atmosphere, or<br/>
to a draft, whether at an open window<br/>
or door, or street corner, an inevitable<br/>
result is violent and instantaneous clo-<br/>
sing of the pores of the skin, by which<br/>
waist and impure matters, which were<br/>
making their way out of the system,<br/>
are compelled to seek an exit through<br/>
some other channel, and break though<br/>
some weaker part, not the natural one,<br/>
and harm to that part is the result. The<br/>
idea is presented by saying that the<br/>
cold is settled in that part. To illus-<br/>
trate:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lady was about getting into a small<br/>
boat to cross the Delaware; but wishing<br/>
first to get an orange at a fruit stand, she<br/>
ran up to the bank of the river, and on<br/>
her return found herself much heated,<br/>
for it was summer; but there was a lit-<br/>
tle wind on the water and the clothing<br/>
felt cold to her. The next morning she<br/>
had a severe cold, which settled on her<br/>
lungs, and within a year she died of<br/>
consumption.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Lorain Co. News
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Council Seven's Reports for the<br/>
year 1864, thus describe the "the Ro-<br/>
man people" :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The various classes of the Roman<br/>
people are at present—males, 100,034;<br/>
females, 93,569; priests, monks, and<br/>
students, 4,585; Pontificial troops and<br/>
guards in provinces, 3,072; prisoners<br/>
of all kinds, 377; heretics of all kinds,<br/>
382; Jews, 4,495. The married people<br/>
form four tenths of the population.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January, 13th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In commencing our [?] volume<br/>
of "The Bangkok Recorder" we desire,<br/>
though behind the proper time, to wish<br/>
all our patrons and readers a "Happy<br/>
New Year," for we cannot forget the<br/>
old adage our parents taught us that<br/>
"in every good work it is better to be<br/>
late than never" and we remember,<br/>
too, that it is always accounted new<br/>
year until the sun passes the meridian<br/>
of the year. As this is our first issue<br/>
since the year commenced, we would<br/>
most cordially unite with His Majesty<br/>
the King of Siam in that most remark-<br/>
able prayer of his own peculiar thinking<br/>
and wording found in another column<br/>
of our paper, for the prosperity of all<br/>
of his and our friends in all their<br/>
laudable undertakings, and for many<br/>
more years of happy life vouchsafed<br/>
to them on earth. How unlike a sup-<br/>
porter of the Buddhist faith does that<br/>
prayer of Siam's king appear! How<br/>
clearly does it seem to recognize a<br/>
living and Almighty God who loveth<br/>
to pour blessings upon those who ask<br/>
him for them! How full and benefi-<br/>
cent and yet how guarded and dis-<br/>
criminating between laudable and un-<br/>
laudable pursuits of happiness? Cer-<br/>
tainly no one of His Majesty's numer-<br/>
ous European and American friends<br/>
can, on reading that prayer refrain from<br/>
responding to the king by a prayer to<br/>
Him who is in truth Almighty and<br/>
Eternal that He would be pleased to<br/>
impart to His Majesty, a happy new<br/>
year and prolong his precious life<br/>
many more years of increasing pros-<br/>
perity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new year on which we have so<br/>
recently entered is in all probability<br/>
to be one crowded with momentous<br/>
events. To it a large majority of Bib-<br/>
lical scholars and holy men of God of<br/>
all ages since the beginning of the<br/>
Christian era have looked as being the<br/>
one pointed to in the Apocalypse for<br/>
the sounding of the 7th trumpet. If<br/>
such be in the main a correct view of the<br/>
divine prophecy, this year cannot but<br/>
be a most eventful one throughout the<br/>
world. Be it as it may, we feel it to<br/>
be a high privilege to stand on a watch<br/>
tower in this heathen city as a "Re-<br/>
corder" of passing events. Although<br/>
the sheet we hope to issue weekly be<br/>
of diminutive size, and our pen, when<br/>
compared with most others, not well<br/>
skilled in journalizing, yet we think<br/>
that we "ought not to despise the day<br/>
of small things." And we feel determin-<br/>
ed that with all our littleness and un-<br/>
skillfulness in this work, to command<br/>
respect by diligent scrutiny and truth-<br/>
ful and bold reporting. That we shall<br/>
not frequently err and sometimes<br/>
make grievous mistakes it would be<br/>
presumption in us to expect. But by<br/>
the help of God our mistakes shall be<br/>
clothed with integrity and innocency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This year has opened upon Siam<br/>
with two great events—the one the<br/>
inauguration into manhood of the<br/>
heir apparent to the throne of the<br/>
Prabats-—Prince Chow-fa-Chula-<br/>
longkorn.-—The other the demise of<br/>
His Majesty Prabat Somdetah Prá Pin<br/>
Klou the late 2nd King of Siam on<br/>
the morning of the 7th inst. It is to<br/>
us a somewhat remarkable coincidence<br/>
that only the day after the closing of<br/>
the august ceremonies for shaving off<br/>
the top knot of the heir apparent, His<br/>
Majesty the late 2nd king bade an<br/>
everlasting adieu to this life, and thus,<br/>
it would seem, at one stroke cut adrift<br/>
all further doubts whether the succes-<br/>
sion to the throne of the Prabats shall<br/>
be in the line of the elder or the<br/>
younger of the two illustrious bro-<br/>
thers who have so ably ruled the king-<br/>
dom in conjunction till the beginning<br/>
of this year. We sincerely mourn<br/>
the death of His Majesty Prabat<br/>
Somdetelt Pra Pin Kiod. It is more<br/>
than 20 years since we first had the<br/>
honor of becoming acquainted with<br/>
him. And being allowed by him to<br/>
enjoy the favor of a good degree of<br/>
intimacy ever since, we do with much<br/>
pleasure testify that we have ever<br/>
found him remarkably condescending,<br/>
gentlemanly and kind. So much was<br/>
he always in love with European<br/>
science, manners and customs, that we<br/>
have uniformly found it refreshing to<br/>
meet him. It was as it were a little<br/>
visit out of a heathen city to our own<br/>
home in our beloved father-land, to<br/>
call on him at his palace and observe<br/>
his works in European style, and<br/>
every thing the most orderly, tasty,<br/>
and neat. During the last year His Ma-<br/>
jesty has suffered much from ill health,<br/>
and consequently retired mainly from<br/>
public life. We regret that we have<br/>
but little knowledge of his history<br/>
during this period. It is fervently to<br/>
be hoped that His Majesty the king<br/>
his own elder and beloved brother will<br/>
be pleased soon to give the public<br/>
some account of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn with great pleasure that<br/>
His Majesty the king sent a special<br/>
message to one of the Missionary la-<br/>
dies requesting her to attend upon his<br/>
languishing royal brother a few of the<br/>
last days of his life, and that she gladly<br/>
complied with the request and doubt-<br/>
less 'fulfilled' well the mission thus<br/>
devolved upon her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As in olden times among heathen<br/>
nations, the Siamese evince their<br/>
mourning for the death of kings by<br/>
shaving their heads. This work has<br/>
already been commenced on the heads<br/>
of the subjects of the late second king<br/>
and is expected to exempt neither<br/>
male nor female adult belonging to<br/>
that division of the kingdom. But<br/>
custom excuses all others from the<br/>
tonsure sign of mourning. Probably<br/>
not less than one fourth of all Siam-<br/>
ese subjects belonging to the second<br/>
king's division. It is now easy to<br/>
ascertain who they are, for "on all<br/>
heads is baldness and every beard is<br/>
cut off."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose in the next issue of our<br/>
paper to give a 'particular' account of<br/>
the royal festival for the tonsure of<br/>
Prince Chowfa Chulalongkorn which<br/>
commenced on the 1st and ended on<br/>
the 6th inst. Suffice it now to say,<br/>
that it was, to nearly all beholders,<br/>
natives as well as foreigners, the most<br/>
unique and imposing they had ever<br/>
seen for such an occasion. Such high<br/>
honors it is believed have not been<br/>
conferred on any Siamese Prince since<br/>
once in 1817 when His Majesty the<br/>
present king was similarly honored,<br/>
and once in 1821 on the person of the<br/>
late second king. None but Princes<br/>
born of Queens are allowed to have<br/>
such an august parade made for them,<br/>
while all must have some.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OBITUARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With great sorrow we record the<br/>
death of the Rev. Cyrus A. Chilcott.<br/>
He died of typhoid fever at the Bap-<br/>
tist Mission House, Bangkok, on the<br/>
30th of December. On the Sabbath<br/>
following his body was attended by<br/>
the various Consuls and the foreign<br/>
community to its burial, in our palm-<br/>
grove cemetery near the banks of the<br/>
Menam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following brief sketch is taken<br/>
from the remarks of Dr. Dean at the<br/>
grave.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our departed brother was a member<br/>
of a numerous and highly respected<br/>
family of Friends or Quakers, resid-<br/>
ing near Buffalo, in the State of New<br/>
York. He was a recent graduate from<br/>
the University of Rochester, and the<br/>
Theological school of the same place.<br/>
About two years ago the American<br/>
Baptist Missionary Union resolved to<br/>
resuscitate their Chinese Mission at<br/>
Bangkok and at the recommendation<br/>
of the Faculty, Mr. Chilcott was ap-<br/>
pointed as one of the men for that<br/>
service; and the experience of one<br/>
short year since he landed here, has<br/>
more than realized the high testimoni-<br/>
als of his former teachers to his fitness<br/>
for the work. He has proved himself<br/>
a man of high mental endowments and<br/>
thorough intellectual training. We<br/>
have found him a colleague of sound<br/>
judgment, wise in counsels, of refined<br/>
taste, of cheerful piety, and strong<br/>
Christian faith. His progress in the<br/>
Chinese language, and his eloquence<br/>
of speech gave promise of his great<br/>
usefulness as a Missionary to the<br/>
heathen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Indeed his endowments gave to him<br/>
an open door of success, in any hon-<br/>
orable calling. Those who listened to<br/>
his speech before the U. S. Consular<br/>
Court, but the day before his last ill-<br/>
ness, regarded it as a pledge of his<br/>
success at the Bar, provided he had<br/>
given himself to the study of the law.<br/>
He entered the work of the Christian<br/>
Ministry and of a Missionary to the<br/>
heathen, not because he was fitted for<br/>
no other occupation, but from an en-<br/>
lightened choice, and because in his<br/>
heart's just estimation, it was a calling<br/>
of graver magnitude, and more glori-<br/>
ous results than any other upon earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We regarded his pursuit for life as<br/>
well chosen, and had looked upon his<br/>
developments of character as a presage<br/>
of a bright career in the work of evan-<br/>
gelizing the heathen: but it seems that<br/>
God was ripening him for a higher<br/>
service in heaven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Three nights ago, while his friends<br/>
were cherishing the fond hope that<br/>
he might soon be restored to health,<br/>
he had the strong impression that he<br/>
was soon to die, and gave to those who<br/>
watched at his bed side, an address in<br/>
which he alluded to his former life—-<br/>
the motives which led him to become<br/>
a Missionary to the heathen—-the joy<br/>
he found in his work and its surround-<br/>
ings—-the uniform kindness he had re-<br/>
ceived from all here—-and the happi-<br/>
ness with which he conformed to the<br/>
will of God whether to live or to die.<br/>
He said he had hoped to live long en-<br/>
ough to turn some of the poor heathen<br/>
from their superstition to the worship of<br/>
the living God—-"but I am ready to go<br/>
at the Master's call"-—"I have never<br/>
for one moment felt the least regret<br/>
that I came here. Tell my friends<br/>
that I die happy. I have not the<br/>
transporting raptures which attend<br/>
some death bed scenes, but my heart<br/>
is full of heavenly peace. The<br/>
whole address was complete in its<br/>
conception expressed in well chosen<br/>
and significant language, and pro-<br/>
nounced with a simple pathos, which<br/>
gave to the listeners the impression<br/>
that it was little less than an inspira-<br/>
tion from the Holy One.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the morning he took a cheerful<br/>
farewell of the friends, giving to each<br/>
appropriate parting words, and direct-<br/>
ing the disposal of his effects. He<br/>
then cordially invited the little boys,<br/>
Willie and Freddie, to come and see<br/>
him in his new house in the happy<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after, when asked if he felt<br/>
pain he said "no, it is like a pleasant<br/>
sleep—or rather like a pleasant wak-<br/>
ing." Afterward he said, "If this<br/>
is dying—and I suppose it is—then it<br/>
is pleasant to die."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following night was passed in a<br/>
dreamy sleeplessness and on Saturday<br/>
morning in answer to the enquiry how<br/>
are you? he said "I am better—-I am<br/>
most well." At 10 A. M. he was taken<br/>
with a spasmodic struggle of the body<br/>
to hold on to life. The mental had al-<br/>
ready fought the battle and won the<br/>
victory—-and the physical combat at<br/>
length gave place to a quiet rest and<br/>
at 2 ½ P. M. he slept in Jesus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have heard eloquent appeals for<br/>
Christ and his salvation from those lips<br/>
now sealed in the silence of the coffin.<br/>
He still speaks to us by a holy life and a<br/>
blameless example, and from the solemn<br/>
stillness of the dead, there comes the<br/>
significant language.— “Be ye also<br/>
ready, for in such an hour as ye think<br/>
not the Son of man cometh.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have read the Apostle’s trium-<br/>
phant song “I have fought a good<br/>
fight, I have finished my course, I<br/>
have kept the faith, and henceforth<br/>
there is laid up for me a crown of<br/>
righteousness which the Lord the right-<br/>
ous Judge will give to me in that day”<br/>
and I seem to hear from that en-<br/>
coffined form, the responsive echo to<br/>
the sentiment, I have fought a good<br/>
fight, I have finished my course, I<br/>
have kept the faith, and henceforth<br/>
there is laid up for me a crown of<br/>
righteousness. Yes, on that brow of<br/>
manly thoughtfulness, so recently<br/>
marked with pain, and unstained by<br/>
the dews of death, shall be placed by<br/>
the Redeemer’s hand a crown that will<br/>
glitter in glory, when the jeweled<br/>
coronets of Queens and Emperors shall<br/>
be mingled in their common dust.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Love Tale.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR:-—We read and hear<br/>
much these days about love. We are<br/>
accustomed to see in print, affecting<br/>
tales which are oftentimes calculated<br/>
to draw tears from our eyes although<br/>
we know there is scarcely a word of<br/>
truth in them. The tale however<br/>
that I am going to tell you is literally<br/>
true. It may not amount to much<br/>
when told, but it may serve to show<br/>
the condition of women in this country,<br/>
and how she is enslaved. It is a well<br/>
known fact that in contracting mar-<br/>
riage relations, the girl in question has<br/>
generally nothing to do in the matter,<br/>
but the whole affair rests in the hands<br/>
of her parents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some short time ago one of the<br/>
boys in our employ met a young lady<br/>
who lived some distance "up town"<br/>
and was smitten with her. He<br/>
sought an interview with her as soon<br/>
as possible, and an attachment sprang<br/>
up between them, which resulted in<br/>
an engagement. But as they were<br/>
both young,—-the boy about twenty and<br/>
she fifteen;—-they wisely concluded to<br/>
postpone the wedding for some months.<br/>
He was also poor, and another object<br/>
in postponing the wedding was that<br/>
he might get a little money ahead,<br/>
to give the parents in consideration<br/>
for their daughter. He went accor-<br/>
dingly, and begged the hand of the<br/>
young lady, and when the appointed<br/>
time came he was to pay the sum of<br/>
one hundred ticals. Things were<br/>
thus for a time going on smoothly<br/>
with the young couple. In the mean<br/>
time however a well-to-do Chinaman<br/>
comes along, and makes the mother<br/>
a rather flattering offer for her daughter.<br/>
He is the proprietor of a seri garden,<br/>
and may be considered a man in<br/>
rather easy circums'ances. The offer<br/>
was too much for the old lady, and<br/>
she yielded. She received from the<br/>
Chinaman a present of two gold ticals<br/>
making about thirty two ticals in sil-<br/>
ver, also a betel tray, and a number of<br/>
other things. The whole amount<br/>
which the Chinaman was to pay was<br/>
about four catties (320 ticals), with<br/>
the additional promise of occasional<br/>
valuable presents. Thus successful,<br/>
he went on and bought a number of<br/>
articles for the wedding feast which<br/>
was to be celebrated with all possible<br/>
haste. Having thus got the ball a<br/>
rolling, the old lady informed the<br/>
daughter of what had been done. She<br/>
protested, but in vain, and that night<br/>
with the true instinct of her sex, she<br/>
made her escape and came to her first<br/>
lover, and informed him of what was<br/>
going on. He accordingly concealed<br/>
the girl away, and the next morn-<br/>
ing, the mother suspecting the course<br/>
the daughter had taken, came down<br/>
both in a rage and in fear angry<br/>
at the daughter for disobeying her,<br/>
and fearing the Chinamen would hold<br/>
her to the bargain. Things were in<br/>
this state when they came to our ears.<br/>
We tried to persuade the boy to give<br/>
up the girl, but this he considered<br/>
dishonorable. We had doubts about<br/>
the propriety of having her secreted on<br/>
our premises but really sympathized<br/>
with her. We accordingly sent a<br/>
deputation to wait on the parents,<br/>
and try to propitiate them, but they<br/>
were inexorable. They demanded<br/>
the daughter that she might be pun-<br/>
ished, and made to obey her parents.<br/>
Seeing there was no hope of reconcil-<br/>
ing the parents we ordered the girl to<br/>
be dismissed. She then came begging<br/>
that she might not be sent away as<br/>
her parents would beat her to death.<br/>
The Chinaman in the mean time hear-<br/>
ing what was going on, wisely with-<br/>
drew his offer. The girl however<br/>
declared, that she would rather die<br/>
than go and live with him. Still the<br/>
parents were inexorable, and demand-<br/>
ed four catties but after several at-<br/>
tempts the matter was satisfactorily<br/>
adjusted and the happy pair are now<br/>
enjoying the "honey moon."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Royal Compliments.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No. 1 of the Siamese King's royal<br/>
manuscripts in the current Christian<br/>
year 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This friendly circular, to all con-<br/>
suls, and consular officers, of the<br/>
various foreign consulates in service<br/>
to the rulers of various nations in<br/>
treaty power with Siam, and certain<br/>
numerous parties, and individuals of<br/>
the foreigners resident in, and abroad<br/>
from Siam, being in any condition of<br/>
their lives, at any where, to whom<br/>
this very solemn circular shall come<br/>
greeting :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whereas this very day the Monday<br/>
1st Jan, of the Christian era 1866,<br/>
the full moon first in winter, or 11th<br/>
thereof, being 5346 day, or yet being<br/>
the 15th can be called the 16th year of<br/>
our reign, is in the Siamese Astron-<br/>
omical system, called in Siamese Bab-<br/>
so Sonkrant tai, or in Sanskrit Xadar<br/>
site Sangkrant, i.e. the sun's diameter<br/>
being larger, this is a remarkable day<br/>
for our astrological notice, and obser-<br/>
ved in very many christian nations as<br/>
the commencement of the New Year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have reached such the day 63<br/>
times solemnly during our royal life.<br/>
Now we thinking of your friendly feel-<br/>
ing and sentiment to us, beg to express<br/>
our good wishes towards you all, who<br/>
are now in Siam, and who having been<br/>
acquainted with us are in, or abroad<br/>
from Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We pray the Supreme Agency of<br/>
highest almighty providence of the<br/>
universe, that the said Supreme being<br/>
shall pour his divine blessing on you<br/>
all and spare your happy lives, by plac-<br/>
ing you in enjoyment of good health,<br/>
prosperity and fulfillment of your<br/>
rightful desires of various things and<br/>
advantages required for well condition<br/>
of lives of yourselves and your families.<br/>
during the current year, and many<br/>
years to come,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
This from your good friend
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
S. P. P. M. Mongkut
Supreme King of Siam
on the 5346 day of reign
being 1st January 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Royal Obituary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To all foreign consuls and consular<br/>
officers, and foreign friends of both<br/>
sexes residing in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second King of Siam having<br/>
been sick of consumptive affliction,<br/>
during the last seven months, he sunk<br/>
deeply in the current month, and ex-<br/>
pired on the 7th Jan. Anno Christi<br/>
1866 at 9 15 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We shall observe as condolence<br/>
worthy the true friendship between<br/>
Siam and the various nations in treaty<br/>
power, when the consular flags, and<br/>
flags on board ships of various nations<br/>
be lowered a few days from this very<br/>
day the Sunday 7th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deceased was 57 years and 4<br/>
months aged, or 20943 days and 4 hours<br/>
only. This from the full brother of<br/>
the deceased, who is now mournful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
S. P. P. M. Mongkut
Supreme King of Siam
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Second King's Palace<br/>
7th Jan. 1866. at 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DEATH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the Baptist mission House, Bang-<br/>
kok, Dec. 30th 1865, of typhoid fever.<br/>
The Rev. Cyrus A. Chillcott, late of<br/>
New Hamburg, Eri Co. N. Y. and a<br/>
Missionary to the Chinese, from the<br/>
American Baptist Missionary Union;<br/>
aged 28 years, and one year a resident<br/>
in Bangkok. He lived highly esteemed,<br/>
and died greatly lamented, by all who<br/>
knew him.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_3_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="12" valign="bottom" class="rd7">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. JAN. 13TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>PORT</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>PORT</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r03">Dec. 29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Frederick 7th</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Heyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Pruss. Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r03">Dec. 29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r02">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r02">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">British Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">" <span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Penforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">211</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Notting</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r03">Dec. 31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Bralling</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Rock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">199</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Dutch Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">" <span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Anna Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Jergesue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dan. Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Water Lily</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Tait</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">142</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">British Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">Dec. 21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Q of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Crook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">178</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Siam Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Neumbelt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">589</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">" <span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ad. Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Nolles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Dutch Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Anna Lucy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">128</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">British Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Day Break</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Kono</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">241</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brit. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ly ee Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Cromsfield</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hon How</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Boock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Teutel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Rusbye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Brit. Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Marianna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">L'hle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">192</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">British Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r03">Jan. 9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Trulam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">123</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brit. Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Ahlmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">219</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Pruss. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">421</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hamb. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Matelbie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Breens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">476</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brit. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Adelheid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Fhlos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Pruss. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Orlon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">468</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Siam Str</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">214</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brit. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kim Eng Hup</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">184</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Siam Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r03">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Jasmin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Frise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Pruss. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r03">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Carl Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r02">Nussebaum</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Dan. Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_3_2 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rd4">
        <p class="r01"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessel's Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrived</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Adelheld</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r03">235</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r02">J. Khloe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r95">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Admiral de Macken</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">French Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">234</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Demenrien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Adriana Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Dutch Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">196</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Kolles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Anna Marie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Danish Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Jurgenese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Ann Lucy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">466</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Carl Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Nussbaum</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Caroline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Paulson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chow Ah. Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Capt Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Creole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hanover Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">334</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Jenson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Cyane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">225</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Cineppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Prus-ian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Chautaloon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Churnsido</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Francis Palmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">American Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">235</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">J. Lamb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Fredric VII</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hoyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Galatin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Bornoo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Gazzell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">467</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Groos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Bornoo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Bornoo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Hector</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Bremen Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">J.F. Harten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Jamain</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">French Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">230</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Ortize</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Dutch do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">D. Maclean &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Kusrovie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Naendah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Loy Ke Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Crowinshield</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">304</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Lorensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Marianna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">192</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">W. Uhlin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Prussian Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">391</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Ahlmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Mackensie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickepack &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Satellite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">British Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">476</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">D. Evens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Solo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">965</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Erekin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Bornoo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Tuthis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">French Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Darauant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rda">
        <p class="r02">Zanzibar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r03">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r98">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r50">
        <p class="r03">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r02">Masck</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9b">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_3_3 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="rd4">
        <p class="r01"><b>Siamese Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAMES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESCRIPTION</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r02">Amy Douglas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r03">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">335</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r02">Bimroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r02">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Ayadian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Gottlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Chin See</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Leisa</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Keamsoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Cruiser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Sextroph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Golish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Soan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Haberkost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Hara</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barkintine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hing Hoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Pho Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Phya Burut</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Kim Hong May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Kim Hong Ty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">317</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Jansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Kim Heap Hap</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">160</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Moonlight</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">644</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chow Sua Keen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">133</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Siagon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Orastes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Wolf</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Stolze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Princess Seraphil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">P. J. Kelvin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Queen of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">433</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Crook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Railway</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">319</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Honhow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Seaforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">311</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Nowlton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">362</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Pho Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Tanti</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hoy how</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Kroan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Christensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Tun Fall Hin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Verona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Palaski</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">397</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r98">
        <p class="r02">Tun Chai Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r03">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r02">Richter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r98">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The want of a European Mail by the<br/>
last Chow Phya was a great disap-<br/>
pointment to very many in this city.<br/>
The cause of the failure is said to have<br/>
been the breaking of the shaft of the<br/>
English Mail Steamer somewhere be-<br/>
tween Singapore and Egypt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to report that the<br/>
two dredging Boats of the government<br/>
are now ready for operation and are<br/>
going to proceed immediately to the<br/>
noble work of deepening canals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Consul Tan Kim Cheng His<br/>
Siamese Majesty's Consul for Singapore<br/>
having come hither to attend the royal<br/>
Festival for cutting the Top-knot of<br/>
Prince Choafa Chulalong korn is ex-<br/>
pected to return in the next Steamer<br/>
to Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rice crop turns out to be an<br/>
extraordinary one for abundance and<br/>
good quality. And although there has<br/>
been an unusual amount of sickness<br/>
among the reapers of the harvest, it<br/>
is reported that there is now no fear<br/>
that any of it will be lost for the want<br/>
of timely cutting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Chinese convert to christianity<br/>
was baptized by Dr. Dean last Sab-<br/>
bath.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. C. P. Lalar who arrived by the<br/>
last Chow Phya, is is a Pasce mer-<br/>
chant from Bombay. We are informed<br/>
that he has come with the view to es-<br/>
tablish himself in his profession in this<br/>
city. We are glad to learn this, as we<br/>
think men of his class make good mer-<br/>
chants and add not a little to the life<br/>
of trade wherever they are establish-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steam Sugar Mill under the Su-<br/>
perintendence of Mr. Thompson on the<br/>
Thacheen River is reported to be a<br/>
perfect success—although the sugar<br/>
cane this season is quite inferior in<br/>
quality and short in quantity. The cane<br/>
nearer the sea suffered greatly by the<br/>
draught in July and August. But the<br/>
fields further North have turned out a<br/>
good crop. It is calculated that there<br/>
will be only about half as much sugar<br/>
made this season as in years past. But<br/>
the way is now thoroughly opened for<br/>
expansion and great success in years<br/>
to come.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chow Phya left Singapore on<br/>
the 3rd inst. and arrived at the bar in<br/>
the morning of the 8th, Crossed the<br/>
bar at 9½ a. m. and arrived at Bangkok<br/>
about noon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Latter and Mrs. Nelson and<br/>
child, also 30 deck passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mails from Europe had not<br/>
arrived when the Steamer left Singa-<br/>
pore.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 18th November,—The<br/>
revolt of the Jamaica Negroes has<br/>
been quelled. There has been a fair<br/>
demand for Cotton during the week,<br/>
both from exporters and the Home<br/>
trade, and from speculative enquiry<br/>
parcels to arrive, Parliament has been<br/>
prorouged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 20th November,—Fair Dhol-<br/>
lers 16¼ to 6½d. King of Denmark<br/>
has granted concessions for laying a<br/>
telegraphic line between England, Nor-<br/>
way and North America by way of<br/>
Greenland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London November 21st-—Fair Dhol-<br/>
lers 16¼ to 16½d, market dull and in-<br/>
animate, and no demand-—prices be-<br/>
ing rather in favor of buyers. Man-<br/>
chester market also dull and inanimate.<br/>
—-7lbs Shirtings 14s. The lessened<br/>
production presents a decline in prices.<br/>
No. 40 Twist 1s 11½d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, November 25th,—Minis-<br/>
terial changes, Mr, Goschen appointed<br/>
Vice-president of the Board of Trade<br/>
Mr. Forster Under-Secretary of the<br/>
State for the Colonies. Exchange 2s<br/>
to 20½d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
United States.-—The Administration<br/>
is making military and naval prepara-<br/>
tions alleged to be against any Fenian<br/>
movement. John Mitchell, confederate<br/>
and Fenian, and late a Federal pri-<br/>
soner, has been released unconditional-<br/>
ly by President Johnson. The public<br/>
debt has been decreased $4,000,000<br/>
within a month. The Atalanta steamer<br/>
was in quarantine at New York, hav-<br/>
ing had 63 cases of cholera on board.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Definition of the
word Fenian."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Manx Clergyman, says the "Illus-<br/>
trated London News gives the fol-<br/>
lowing explanation of the term<br/>
"Fenian" from Dr. Kelly's Manx and<br/>
English Dictionary; a work written in<br/>
1766, but only now committed to the<br/>
Press. Feniaght, singular—plural<br/>
Fence, a champion. hero, giant. This<br/>
word in the plural is generally used to<br/>
signify invaders or foreign spoilers,<br/>
which inclines me to suppose that<br/>
these Fence were either the Feni of<br/>
Ireland, for so were the inhabitants of<br/>
Ulster called, or the Poeni or Phoeni-<br/>
cians of Carthage."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The stories told of the prowes<br/>
and size of these giants are wonderful.<br/>
Irish, Fianna Erin signifies a kind of<br/>
militia."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Vaccination." The immortal Jen-<br/>
ner has just been set up on a pedestal<br/>
at Boulogne in France. The statue<br/>
which is made of iron, has been bron-<br/>
zed all over to protect it from the<br/>
effects of the weather. It is ten feet<br/>
high and stands on a granite pedestal,<br/>
elevated to twelve feet, making the<br/>
entire height from the basement to<br/>
crown of the head twenty two feet.<br/>
It is erected as "A recognition of<br/>
France to the merits of the great<br/>
Jenner," It in a most unique memorial<br/>
of a man, whose discovery has saved<br/>
more lives than any other system ever<br/>
known. During the peace of Amiens,<br/>
the efficacy of vaccination was first<br/>
introduced into France, and from that<br/>
time forward it has been steadily<br/>
practiced all over the empire. To the<br/>
project of the Statue, the Emperor<br/>
gave his unqualified support. The<br/>
ceremony of uncovering it was obser-<br/>
ved lately with considerable display.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
French in China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince of Kung has been rein-<br/>
stated in all the offices of which he<br/>
was some time since unjustly deprived.<br/>
His position at present partakes of the<br/>
office of both Regent and Prime Min-<br/>
ister. Of his entire loyalty there is<br/>
no question, but serious doubts may<br/>
be entertained as to his real views on<br/>
foreign affairs. His elevation may<br/>
have for its object the possession of a<br/>
powerful position from which to ne-<br/>
gotiate with the Foreign Ministers—-<br/>
or it may be meant as a counterpiece<br/>
to the growing influence of Tseng-<br/>
kwo-fan—-or it may have both objects<br/>
in view.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The latest intelligence regarding<br/>
Tseng is both alarming and inexplic-<br/>
able. He is said to have been defeat-<br/>
ed by the Nienfei, and to be compell-<br/>
ed to make a rapid retrograde move-<br/>
ment towards the Yellow river. The<br/>
banditti are said to interrupt his com-<br/>
munication, and to make his position<br/>
rather critical.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These Nienfei are reported to be<br/>
collecting in large numbers in the pro-<br/>
vinces of Shantung and Honam, caus-<br/>
ing infinite calamity to the people and<br/>
the total annihilation of trade. That<br/>
they are banditti of a low stamp there<br/>
is no doubt, but it is very strange how<br/>
carefully they abstain from giving<br/>
cause of offence to foreigners. It<br/>
would certainly seem that they are<br/>
acquainted with the modus operandi<br/>
pursued by the British towards the<br/>
Taipings, regarding which insurgents<br/>
nothing has been heard since last mail,<br/>
neither have any tidings been published<br/>
relative to the Mahomedan rebels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear likely that compli-<br/>
cations may arise between the Imperi-<br/>
al Government and the Emperor of<br/>
the French on the subject of propagan-<br/>
dism. The latter are probably unrea-<br/>
sonable and aggressive on the point—-<br/>
for instance they appropriated to them-<br/>
selves the whole site of the Governor<br/>
General's Yamun at Canton and are<br/>
building thereupon a large ecclesias-<br/>
tical establishment. Prior to the<br/>
treaty between France and China,<br/>
French Roman Catholic Missionaries<br/>
had penetrated to many parts of the<br/>
Empire, and in many cases had been<br/>
driven away after establishing mis-<br/>
sions. The French treaty secures all<br/>
the rights of property that these mis-<br/>
sionaries can establish, and some of<br/>
these rights the Provincial authorities,<br/>
in several cases, avoid to grant. Fur-<br/>
thermore, in the Province of Szechuen,<br/>
the nursery of propagandism, some<br/>
outrages have lately occurred of a<br/>
serious nature directed against the<br/>
missionaries. Viewing the subject in<br/>
all its bearings, it is probable the<br/>
French government will take prompt<br/>
action in the matter. In their politi-<br/>
cal relations with the Chinese, the<br/>
French are certainly observing<br/>
almost good faith and consideration
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. ST. Crs<br/>
JULIEN in our firm ceased from this<br/>
date, and Mr. J. M. ALLOIN will sign<br/>
by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RHMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam Nov. 1st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he has recently pur-<br/>
chased all the presses and type, together<br/>
with all the typecasting and book-bind-<br/>
ing apparatus formerly belonging to<br/>
the Am. Baptist Mission in this city;<br/>
and having thus reinforced his original<br/>
Printing establishment with 'a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to per-<br/>
form a much greater amount of print-<br/>
ing for the Mission and for this business<br/>
community, and to fulfil the desires of<br/>
his patrons with more promptness and<br/>
certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All persons indebted to<br/>
the late Chas. H. Thomas,<br/>
are hereby requested to<br/>
make immediate payment<br/>
to the United States Con-<br/>
sul; and all persons having<br/>
claims against, the said<br/>
Chas. H. Thomas will pre-<br/>
sent them properly authen-<br/>
ticated at the U. S. Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. Hood
by order U. S. Consul
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
BANGKOK, Nov. 7th.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_16 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents<br/>
for the above named Companies<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to<br/>
grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, January, 14th 1865. (1f)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colonial, Sea and Fire
Insurance Company.
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan, 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_23 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Co. Limited.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan. 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_24 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ADVERTISEMENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A JUVENILE English school un-<br/>
der the style of "Prince Supra-<br/>
tith's English school" is just open in<br/>
one of the rooms of the first new brick<br/>
building on the right side of the new<br/>
Road ; outside the Palace walls, and<br/>
at the next bridge but one from the<br/>
Iron draw-bridge—TERMS—from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Sinoon Mai, Wat Koke
Siam, 3rd January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_26 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ré Estate of C. A. Chilcott deceas-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been duly<br/>
appointed administrator of the Estate<br/>
of C. A. Chilcote, late of Bangkok de-<br/>
ceased; all persons having claims upon<br/>
the said estate are hereby requested to<br/>
present the same, with proper vouches,<br/>
without delay. All persons indebted<br/>
to the said estate are called upon to<br/>
make payment of same to<br/>
January 5th 1866. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
W. DEAN
Administrator
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
