---
linkTitle: 'May 17th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 17th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 17th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 42
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, May 17th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 19.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
By James Montgomery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Press! what is the Press? I cried;<br/>
When thus a wondrous voice replied;<br/>
"In me all human knowledge dwells,<br/>
The oracle of oracles;<br/>
Past, present, future, I reveal,<br/>
Or in oblivious silence seal:<br/>
What I preserve can perish never—-<br/>
What I forego is lost forever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I speak all languages: to me<br/>
The deaf may hear, the blind may see,<br/>
The dumb converse, the dead of old<br/>
Communion with the living hold.<br/>
All lands are one beneath my rule,<br/>
All nations learners in my school;<br/>
Men of all ages every where<br/>
Become contemporaries there.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the Press?—-'Tis what the tongue<br/>
Was to the world, when Time was young.<br/>
When, by tradition, sire to son<br/>
Convey'd whate'er was known or done;<br/>
But fact and fiction so were mix'd,<br/>
That boundaries never could be fix'd.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the Press?—-'Tis that which taught,<br/>
By hieroglyphic forms of thought,<br/>
Lore from the vulgar proudly hid,<br/>
Like treasures in a pyramid:<br/>
For knowledge then was mystery,<br/>
A captive under lock and key,<br/>
By priests and princes held in thrall,<br/>
Till the redoubled Alphabett<br/>
Free their own great deliverer set:<br/>
At whose command, by simplest spells,<br/>
They work their mental miracles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the Press?-—'Tis what the pen<br/>
Was thrice ten centuries to men,<br/>
When sybil leaves lent wings to words,<br/>
Or, caged in books, they sang like birds.<br/>
But slow the pen, and frail the page—<br/>
To write twelve folios ask'd an age;<br/>
And a pet babe in sport might spoil<br/>
The fruits of twenty authors' toil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A power was wanting to insure<br/>
Life to work, worthy to endure—-<br/>
A power the race to multiply<br/>
Of intellectual polypi:<br/>
It came all hardships to redress:<br/>
And truth and virtue hailed the Press!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What am I, then?—-I am a Power<br/>
Years can not waste, nor flames devour,<br/>
Nor waters drown, nor tyrants bind;<br/>
I am the mirror of man's mind,<br/>
In whose serene, impressive face,<br/>
What can not die on earth you trace—-<br/>
Not phantom shapes that come and fly,<br/>
But like the concave of the sky,<br/>
In which the stars by night and day,<br/>
Seen or unseen hold on their way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then think me not the lifeless frame,<br/>
Which bears my honorable name;<br/>
Nor dwell I in the arm whose wing<br/>
Intelligence from blocks can wring;<br/>
Nor in the hand whose fingers fine<br/>
The cunning characters combine;<br/>
Nor even the cogitative brain,<br/>
Whose cells the germs of thought contain,<br/>
Which that quick hand in letters sows,<br/>
Like dibbled wheat, in lineal rows;<br/>
And that strong arm like autumn sheaves<br/>
Bears and binds up in gathered leaves,<br/>
From that dead tree's well cultured soil.<br/>
I am not one nor all of these;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They are my types and images,<br/>
The instruments with which I work:<br/>
In them no secret virtues lurk,<br/>
I am an omnipresent soul;<br/>
I live and move throughout the whole,<br/>
And thence, with freedom unconfined,<br/>
And universal as the wind,<br/>
Whose source and issues are unknown,<br/>
Felt in its airy flight alone,<br/>
And life supplying with its breath,<br/>
And, when 'tis gone, involving death;<br/>
I quicken souls from nature's sloth,<br/>
Fashion their forms, sustain their growth,<br/>
And, when my influence fails or ties,<br/>
Matter may live, but spirit dies,<br/>
Myself withdrawn from mortal sight,<br/>
I am invisible as light—-<br/>
Light which, revealing all beside,<br/>
Itself within itself can hide:<br/>
The things of darkness I make bare,<br/>
And, nowhere seen, and every where;<br/>
All that philosophy has sought,<br/>
Science discover'd, genius wrought;<br/>
All that reflective memory stores,<br/>
Or rich imagination pours;<br/>
All that the wit of man conceives;<br/>
All that he wishes, hopes, believes;<br/>
All that he loves, or fears, or hates;<br/>
All that to heaven or earth relates;—-<br/>
These are the lessons that I teach<br/>
By speaking silence, silent speech.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ah! who like me can bless or curse?<br/>
What can be better, what be worse,<br/>
'Than language framed for Paradise,<br/>
Or sold to infamy and vice?<br/>
Blest be the man by whom I bless;<br/>
Accursed be who wrongs the Press;<br/>
The reprobate in prose or song,<br/>
Who wields the power of right for wrong<br/>
Wrong to outlast his laurel's tomb,<br/>
And haunt the earth till crack of doom!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dr. Kitto.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from No. 19.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of course, John was set to work, and<br/>
shoemaking seemed the pursuit best suited<br/>
for him. At this time, he commenced keep-<br/>
ing-a journal, and formed the valuable<br/>
habit of putting down his thoughts, clearly<br/>
and correctly with his pen. But a grief<br/>
happened at this time that nearly reduced<br/>
him to despair—the death of his beloved<br/>
grandmother. He had clung to her with<br/>
all the tenderness of one who had a heart<br/>
full of love, and none to call it forth, but<br/>
the friend who had been more than a moth-<br/>
er to him-—it is heart-rending to read his<br/>
remarks about his parents at this time.<br/>
“Will they not, when they think the edge<br/>
of my grief is blunted, relapse into their<br/>
former indifference? I expressed this doubt<br/>
to my mother. She assured me of her con-<br/>
tinued kindness. I would have said, but<br/>
did not, ‘Oh! my mother!’ representative<br/>
of the dear friend I have lost, would that<br/>
I were certain this kindness would con-<br/>
tinue.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sight of death and the grave solemn-<br/>
nised the mind of the youth; from this<br/>
time his journal contains frequent reference<br/>
to religion, and it was evident he was led<br/>
to God in prayer. A few months after he<br/>
felt himself completely alone in the world,<br/>
a man came to the workhouse to choose an<br/>
apprentice, and seeing John’s work, chose<br/>
him; but the youth demurred, alleging his<br/>
deafness, and perhaps not liking the looks<br/>
of the man, however John’s objections<br/>
were overruled, and he was bound. Poor<br/>
fellow; he had a hard master—-a brutal ty-<br/>
rant! who used in his fits of rage to strike<br/>
the poor youth with the hammer. That<br/>
head which was rendered almost sacred by<br/>
misfortunes and privations, was exposed to<br/>
savage blows from this wretched man. By<br/>
this dreadful treatment, John was nearly<br/>
driven to despair, but he took the wise re-<br/>
solution of writing a calm statement of<br/>
his condition, and it was given to the<br/>
guardians by his friend Mr. Burnard. This<br/>
paper was so respectful and so well-ex-<br/>
pressed that an inquiry was instituted,<br/>
which ended in the youth being released<br/>
from the wicked tyrant who had made<br/>
sport with his affliction, and added to his<br/>
sorrows. John returned to the workhouse,<br/>
where he was now an esteemed inmate. And<br/>
many friends who had not the means of<br/>
giving him much help, were yet useful in<br/>
providing him with good books, encourag-<br/>
ing him in his work of self-culture. He<br/>
never seems to have wasted an hour. Dil-<br/>
igent at work, and diligent to improve his<br/>
leisure by careful as well as copious read-<br/>
ing, the Plymouth Town Library was open<br/>
to him, and he gladly availed himself of<br/>
its contents. Even in his casual walks he<br/>
noticed with an intelligent eye all he saw,<br/>
and his powers of minute description were<br/>
aided by his yet greater powers of careful<br/>
observation. About this time, three little<br/>
essays of his, on Happiness, Home, and<br/>
Contemplation were inserted in the “PLY-<br/>
MOUTH JOURNAL,” and an appeal was at<br/>
length made to the public on behalf of this<br/>
youth, which proved so successful that he<br/>
was placed to board and lodge with Mr.<br/>
Burnard his kind friend, he thus had<br/>
leisure to continue his studies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From this time his career was upward<br/>
and onward in all respects. The vows he<br/>
had made when bowed down with sorrow,<br/>
when he laid his griefs before God in<br/>
prayer, he did not forget when prosperity<br/>
dawned upon him, in joy as in grief, he<br/>
lived near to God—-and the Lord was with<br/>
him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In his twentieth year, the once friendless<br/>
youth was received into Mr. Groves’s family<br/>
at Exeter, as a gratuitous pupil, and in<br/>
consideration of any services he could<br/>
render, was to receive £15 a year. After<br/>
a time by the aid of friends, he was<br/>
moved to the Missionary College at Is-<br/>
lington, to learn printing. But his love of<br/>
literary composition somewhat interfered<br/>
with his pursuits as a printer—-at length<br/>
the career opened before him, by which he<br/>
became celebrated. The Church Mission-<br/>
ary Society sent him with Dr. Korck to<br/>
Malta, and while there the habit of care-<br/>
fully writing down his impressions of all<br/>
he saw, was fully developed, and al-<br/>
though his deafness was a great privation<br/>
it seemed to be compensated by his in-<br/>
creased power of observation. One great<br/>
advantage at this time was the recovery of<br/>
the power of speech. From never hearing<br/>
a sound, the subject of our narrative was<br/>
in danger of forgetting the way to speak<br/>
words—indeed he disliked the effort of<br/>
using his voice, but while at Malta, he<br/>
overcame this dislike which threatened to<br/>
make him dumb as well as deaf, and so<br/>
practised his voice, that he could be very<br/>
well understood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some disappointments led to his giving<br/>
up his situation in Malta, and returning to<br/>
England in 1828, where after some delay<br/>
he agreed to accompany one of his best<br/>
friends, Mr. Groves, on a Christian mission<br/>
to Persia. The journey of the party was<br/>
made through Denmark, Russia and Tar-<br/>
tary to Bagdad. He made a considerable<br/>
stay in Persia, and became familiar with<br/>
Oriental customs and modes of life. In<br/>
1833 our deaf traveller returned to Eng-<br/>
land, his mind full of various learning.<br/>
The Society for the Diffusion of Useful<br/>
Knowledge ultimately secured his services<br/>
as a writer, and he wrote that most inter-<br/>
book, “THE LOST SENSES,” which attracted<br/>
much attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On September the 21st, 1833, he was<br/>
married to a kind and estimable woman,<br/>
who not only sympathised in, his literary—<br/>
tastes, but made him in all respects a ten-<br/>
der and admirable wife. With the domes-<br/>
tic happiness that was now his portion,<br/>
came the opportunity to devote himself to<br/>
a great work, “THE PICTORIAL BIBLE,”<br/>
his knowledge of Oriental scenes and cus-<br/>
toms enabled him to be a most valuable<br/>
expositor of Bible narratives, and no book<br/>
has done more to diffuse an intelligent ac-<br/>
quaintance with the Holy Scriptures. This<br/>
was followed by a “History of Palestine<br/>
and the Holy Land,” “The Christian Trav-<br/>
eller,” “Uncle Oliver's Travels in Persia,<br/>
a book for the young,” “The Cyclopædia<br/>
of Biblical Literature,” and “Daily Bible<br/>
Illustrations,” all works of great value.<br/>
Besides these vast labours—-he often wrote<br/>
most useful articles in “The Penny Mag-<br/>
azine.” He was anxious to promote the<br/>
instruction of his poorer countrymen—-<br/>
never in his prosperity forgetting the<br/>
claims of the labouring classes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These continuous literary labours began<br/>
to effect his health, which had always been<br/>
delicate, and he was troubled with most<br/>
severe nervous headaches-—his family in-<br/>
creased rapidly, and with all his toils, his<br/>
means were never ample. It was a great<br/>
comfort to him, when our beloved Queen<br/>
ordered him a pension of £100 a year from<br/>
the Civil List, in consideration of his valu-<br/>
able literary services.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A diploma of D. D., was sent him from<br/>
the University of Giessen, and many learned<br/>
societies in England, Scotland, and Ger-<br/>
many, and America, united to praise him,<br/>
not only for his learning, but his diligence<br/>
and the way in which he made his great<br/>
talents the means of diffusing a knowledge<br/>
of the highest wisdom. Yes! the deaf<br/>
workhouse boy was known to the whole<br/>
civilized world as the famous traveler and<br/>
Biblical scholar, Dr. JOHN KITTO!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was scarcely to be expected that a life<br/>
so afflicted and so laborious, should extend<br/>
to old age; and repeated attacks of illness<br/>
alarmed Dr. Kitto's family and friends.<br/>
He made many journeys to different parts<br/>
of England, in search of health, and at<br/>
length resolved to visit Germany. In<br/>
August 1854, Dr. and Mrs. Kitto, with<br/>
seven of their nine children, embarked for<br/>
Rotterdam, went thence to Mayence, on<br/>
the Rhine, and proceeded to Stuttgart: in<br/>
the latter place, his illness increased so<br/>
rapidly, that Dr. Kitto felt certain his<br/>
death was near. But the wanderers pro-<br/>
ceeded as soon as his strength permitted,<br/>
to Cannstadt, to try the mineral springs of<br/>
that district, and his health might have been<br/>
renovated, but it pleased God to afflict the<br/>
family by the removal of the eldest daugh-<br/>
ter, and the youngest son, in quick succes-<br/>
sion. The former had been her father's joy<br/>
and comfort, and the grief of losing her,<br/>
though borne with Christian resignation,<br/>
was more than his shattered health could<br/>
endure. On October the 27th, he wrote<br/>
what proved to be his last letter to his<br/>
friend, A. H. Davis, Esq., of Adelaide,<br/>
Australia. In it there occur these words,-—<br/>
“I began to perceive that, by these vari-<br/>
ously afflictive dispensations, my Lord is<br/>
calling me ‘up hither,’ to the higher room<br/>
in which He sits, that I may see more of<br/>
His grace and that I may more clearly un-<br/>
derstand the inner mysteries of His King-<br/>
dom.” In a month from the time of writ-<br/>
ing that sentence, Dr. John Kitto entered<br/>
into the joy of his Lord. In nine days<br/>
more he would have attained the fiftieth<br/>
year of a life, the first sixteen or seventeen<br/>
years of which, had been saddened by<br/>
poverty, pain and privations, such as sel-<br/>
dom have fallen to the lot of any human<br/>
being. Through all this, the “excellent<br/>
spirit” that was in him bore him up, and<br/>
by God's grace the youth, feeble, friend-<br/>
less, and deaf, was made the means of do-<br/>
ing a great work, and living a noble life—<br/>
his honoured name being a household<br/>
word in thousands of families in his native<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Not by might, nor by power, but by my<br/>
Spirit saith the Lord of Hosts.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
BRITISH WORKMAN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the extreme north the Imperial go-<br/>
vernment is attempting vigorous measures<br/>
against the rebels. In addition to the<br/>
2000 drilled troops who were sent a few<br/>
weeks ago into the Shing-king province,<br/>
6,000 additional troops have now been<br/>
marched to Moukden. In spite of this<br/>
movement however, the government seems<br/>
to rely more on buying off the rebels than<br/>
on crushing them by its military strength.<br/>
Proclamations have been widely distribut-<br/>
ed offering Mandarin buttons to the<br/>
leaders of the bands on condition that<br/>
they will give in their allegiance to the<br/>
Imperial government. The death of San-<br/>
kolin-sin seems to be confirmed. His son<br/>
now commands the Mongol Cavalry, and<br/>
he is reported to be advancing on the<br/>
rebels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A frightful tragedy has taken place in<br/>
the China sea, on board a coolie ship<br/>
named the NAPOLEON CANEVARO. This<br/>
vessel left Macao on the 8th of March,<br/>
with 663 coolies on board. Some rumors<br/>
of an intended rising reached the ears of<br/>
the captain that day. One or two of the<br/>
ringleaders were flogged and put in irons.<br/>
The next day the whole body of the<br/>
coolies revolted. After a desperate fight<br/>
they set fire to the ship below hoping to<br/>
tempt the crew down. For the men to<br/>
have gone below, however, amongst them<br/>
would have been certain death. They<br/>
passed a hose to the coolies but this was<br/>
destroyed instead of being used. In a<br/>
short time the crew and captain finding<br/>
the fire irresistible, had to take to their<br/>
boats. The vessel was lost, together with<br/>
all but six or seven of the coolies who<br/>
were found eight days later by a passing<br/>
brig, clinging to a half burned spar. The<br/>
men in the boats were picked up by an-<br/>
other vessel and taken to Saigon, whence<br/>
they returned hither to tell their fearful<br/>
story.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A curious illustration of the way in<br/>
which the British government, in attempt-<br/>
ing to put down piracy in these waters,<br/>
is playing into the hands of foreign na-<br/>
tions, is afforded by the memorandum which<br/>
will be found in another column, of<br/>
charters and settlements at Hongkong.<br/>
Out of nineteen vessels now offering here<br/>
for the coast trade, only three are British<br/>
owned. This state of things which is not<br/>
of an extraordinary or exceptional char-<br/>
acter, will show how just it would be to<br/>
require from the various continental pow-<br/>
ers whose subjects trade with China,<br/>
contributions towards a force specially<br/>
devoted to the suppression of piracy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great increase in the export of tea<br/>
from China to the United States, during<br/>
the past season has already attracted<br/>
notice. It may be worth while to call<br/>
attention to the table of exports from<br/>
Yokohama, where it will be seen that<br/>
whereas to this date last year the export<br/>
of Japanese tea from that port to America<br/>
had been 1,749,813 lbs. the quantity sent<br/>
during the present season, amounts to<br/>
9,269,194 lbs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hankow.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Imperialist troops in this neigh-<br/>
borhood have inflicted a severe defeat on<br/>
the Nienfei who evacuated Hwangpe and<br/>
were dispersed with great loss. The<br/>
disciplined Chinese force which M. Giquel<br/>
has been organizing is beginning to ac-<br/>
quire shape, and Mr. Giquel himself has<br/>
been appointed commandant. Important<br/>
correspondence has taken place between<br/>
the Hankow and Shanghai Chambers of<br/>
Commerce, in reference to a system which<br/>
has been adopted at the former port that<br/>
no goods should be delivered to Chinese<br/>
from foreign godowns unless on receipt<br/>
of five day's bankers' orders. In Novem-<br/>
ber last the merchants combined to enforce<br/>
this rule for the sake of greater security<br/>
but one or two individuals have infringed<br/>
it by discounting long dated orders; and<br/>
the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce was<br/>
asked to express its opinion in the matter,<br/>
which it did by condemning the latter<br/>
practice.—-IBID.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is our painful duty to record the<br/>
suicide of Mr. Patrick Dall one of our<br/>
well known residents. For some time<br/>
past he had been in a low desponding<br/>
state of mind, in consequence, it is believ-<br/>
ed, of non-success in his business affairs.<br/>
We are informed that twice before, in the<br/>
course of last week, he attempted self-<br/>
destruction, once by stabbing himself,<br/>
and again by taking laudanum, but not<br/>
effecting his object—-and being prevented<br/>
from making a third attempt, as he stated<br/>
his intention of doing by means of his<br/>
revolver, which was taken from him—-he<br/>
seems to have gone deliberately to Mis-<br/>
sissippi Bay, and there hung himself up-<br/>
on a tree, near to the cutting descending<br/>
to the seaside. The body was found by<br/>
a private of the Royal Engineers, about<br/>
4 P. M., on Sunday last, on the right of<br/>
the New Road. It had fallen down from<br/>
the tree where it had been hanging. The<br/>
eyes were half-closed, and he appeared to<br/>
have been dead some time. The body<br/>
was perfectly rigid. On being brought<br/>
into the settlement, Dr. Dalliston was<br/>
speedily in attendance, but found that the<br/>
deceased must have been dead some four<br/>
or five hours at least<br/>
—JAPAN HERALD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Commercial.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Business has been excessively dull. In<br/>
fact, we are nearly at the end of the silk<br/>
season and the crop is evidently short;<br/>
this, coinciding as it does with a great<br/>
decline in the value of native coin, makes<br/>
money excessively scarce among the native<br/>
merchants; finding their calculations as to<br/>
the price of booms at fault, they are unable<br/>
to meet their engagements to take deliv-<br/>
ery of imports. At the same time they<br/>
will not give way in their demands for<br/>
their silk sufficiently so enable foreigners<br/>
to operate; hence a partial stoppage of<br/>
trade. The only solution of the difficulty<br/>
we believe to be a considerable fall in the<br/>
price of silk, which we confidently predict,<br/>
as likely soon to take place; for a large<br/>
share of the stock is in the hands of Eu-<br/>
ropean merchants and bankers, who have<br/>
advanced upon it to the native owners.<br/>
These cannot renew their promissory<br/>
notes and if foreigners are firm, which<br/>
their home advices are likely to make<br/>
them—natives must abate their present—<br/>
most exorbitant demands. We refer our<br/>
readers for more details to our Commer-<br/>
cial Report, and while leaving the sub-<br/>
jects, re-iterate what we have persisted<br/>
in from the first establishment of the<br/>
OVERLAND MAIL:—-that those European<br/>
merchants who think that the silk crop of<br/>
Japan is likely to be rapidly progressive,<br/>
are mistaken—until the whole country is<br/>
thrown open to foreign capital and enter-<br/>
prise there will be no marked advance<br/>
beyond the average of twelve to fourteen<br/>
thousand bales.—-IBID.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pirates.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE "DAILY PRESS" OF APRIL, 5,)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An article in the DAILY PRESS of some<br/>
days back on pirates has led to sugges-<br/>
tions which tend to show more plainly<br/>
than before how very possible it would<br/>
be to find the means of keeping on foot a<br/>
force specially devoted to the suppression<br/>
of pirates. We were pointing out that<br/>
the colony of Hongkong could not be<br/>
expected to bear the whole expense of<br/>
such a naval force as might be strong<br/>
enough to combat the existing evil, even<br/>
if the permission of the Home Govern-<br/>
ment, for its establishment as a water police,<br/>
or under any other title might be obtain-<br/>
ed. It would be natural, however, to<br/>
expect that the various governments of<br/>
Europe whose merchant navies frequent<br/>
this port, should in some way contribute<br/>
towards the maintenance of the preven-<br/>
tive force. We will set aside for a moment<br/>
the contribution which ought certainly to<br/>
be exacted from the Chinese government.<br/>
That would not be obtainable by reason.<br/>
Given? the deliberate conclusion of the<br/>
English government that it was right to<br/>
exact it and the rest might be left to Sir<br/>
R. Alcock. The European governments,<br/>
however might be loth to pay any direct<br/>
sum in the nature of a subsidy to the<br/>
antipiratical fleet, and indeed the Eng-<br/>
lish government might be loth to take the<br/>
contribution in such a form. It might<br/>
again be injudicious to raise the necessary<br/>
sum by anything in the nature of direct<br/>
impositions, which would more or less deprive<br/>
Hongkong of that reputation, through<br/>
the world, as a free port, which must be<br/>
highly advantageous to its trade. It is<br/>
now suggested that the necessary payment<br/>
might easy be made by each foreign ship<br/>
through the consuls of the power to which<br/>
she belonged, and that the pressure which<br/>
consuls might be empowered to use, in<br/>
case a captain made objections to the<br/>
payment of this quota, should be brought<br/>
to bear through the Insurance officers.<br/>
Certainly the Insurance officers must be<br/>
anxious to suppress piracy, and if it were<br/>
found impossible to insure a ship which<br/>
had not paid to her consul a certain ton-<br/>
nage due for the preventive force, there<br/>
would not be many defaulters. The<br/>
question would be how far it would be pos-<br/>
sible for the government to enter on a<br/>
line of conduct which would involve re-<br/>
liance on the action of private companies.<br/>
The government could not force the com-<br/>
panies to limit their commercial operat-<br/>
ions in a certain way, and in the first in-<br/>
stance it could only be by their voluntary<br/>
cooperation that any thing could be done.<br/>
There must be difficulty at all times in<br/>
combining voluntary co-operation and<br/>
governmental action, and this is the ob-<br/>
jection to the idea heretofore. It is look-<br/>
ing along way ahead no doubt to discuss<br/>
the way in which an antipiratical fleet<br/>
should be supported, but until the means<br/>
of doing this are clearly discerned, no<br/>
step could be taken towards the accom-<br/>
plishment of the great end in view. It<br/>
is desirable therefore to make out exactly,<br/>
if possible, the mode in which the scheme<br/>
could be worked and the suggestion now<br/>
put forward might contribute to this<br/>
result.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
May 17th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Present Crisis.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are thankful that our _twin broth-<br/>
er"_ the Rev. Dr. has kindly allowed us<br/>
to insert in the present issue his private<br/>
letter to us, criticising our actions as<br/>
conductors of the _Bangkok Recorder_<br/>
and stating clearly his own views of the<br/>
present American Crisis. Although<br/>
"written for our private eye alone"<br/>
and from the spur of the moment, yet<br/>
like most of the hasty productions of<br/>
his pen, the letter seems to us well pre-<br/>
pared for the press, and will be likely<br/>
to do good in print,-—his own opin-<br/>
ion to the contrary notwithstanding,<br/>
"if we are not wanting in judgment"<br/>
as he fancies we were in our last lead-<br/>
er, and frequently have been in our se-<br/>
lections from foreign papers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though our "twin brother's" criti-<br/>
cisms seem to us rather severe, yet we<br/>
cannot but regard them as being in all<br/>
verity "goodness and severity" so hap-<br/>
pily blended that we feel determined to<br/>
say to the advances of bitterness and<br/>
resentment, be gone, and to love and<br/>
gratitude, come in and control our<br/>
feelings under the present crisis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are not at all surprised to learn<br/>
that our brother "does not like some<br/>
things that have appeared in the late<br/>
issues of the _Bangkok Recorder_"<br/>
for we do not and did not like them<br/>
ourselves, and we felt quite at a loss<br/>
what was our path of duty in the pre-<br/>
mises.-—But having asked wisdom of<br/>
God, hoping He would guide us in de-<br/>
ciding the question, we concluded to<br/>
give them a place in our columns, as<br/>
the usual characteristics of public af-<br/>
fairs, and hence, as we judged, lay open<br/>
for criticism through our paper. But<br/>
it was the uncourteous and unkind lan-<br/>
guage chiefly which offended our feel-<br/>
ings and taste, and we would hereby<br/>
beg our correspondents to be particu-<br/>
larly cautious in their future produc-<br/>
tions to avoid all such offences. While<br/>
it is right and proper to _hit_ the object<br/>
at which we aim by our pen and make<br/>
it a strong blow if we like, it is never<br/>
necessary or right to abuse any one<br/>
with vulgar or harsh epithets or any<br/>
ungentlemanly censure. It is far better<br/>
to take the counsel of Solomon, that<br/>
"a soft answer turneth away wrath"<br/>
and "a soft tongue breaketh the bone."<br/>
These counsels of divine wisdom un-<br/>
doubtedly comprise words that fall<br/>
from the pen as well as from the<br/>
tongue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But our "twin-brother" seems to<br/>
have strangely mistaken what was<br/>
said under the head of _Present Crisis_,<br/>
in our last issue, for our own remarks.<br/>
They were wholly extracts from the<br/>
N. Y. Independent and inserted for<br/>
the express purpose of "giving our<br/>
readers some idea how the Radical<br/>
Republicans feel in regard to the<br/>
present crisis of political affairs in<br/>
the States." While we frankly acknow-<br/>
ledged that we deeply sympathized<br/>
with those Radicals, we distinctly de-<br/>
clared our displeasure at their impa-<br/>
tience and harsh severity. And if our<br/>
brother will read over our leading ar-<br/>
ticle, he cannot fail to see that we<br/>
have still great confidence in Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson that he will abide by<br/>
the Constitution, and, under God,<br/>
carry our country safely through the<br/>
present crisis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That Mr. Johnson did use the lan-<br/>
guage we cited in our editoral cannot<br/>
be contradicted, and that he did thus<br/>
commit a sad wrong is equally<br/>
clear. The act of condemning such<br/>
conduct in a ruler certainly cannot<br/>
make us guilty of "speaking evil of the<br/>
ruler of our people." We wonder why<br/>
our brother did not consider that he<br/>
might possibly be condemned for the<br/>
same sin he fears is lying at our own<br/>
door, by making public, as he does, the<br/>
very damaging remarks he heard fall<br/>
from the lips of one of the Senators<br/>
against which Mr. Johnson aimed his<br/>
barbed arrows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And to our "twin-brother" we feel<br/>
in solemn duty bound to say, that we<br/>
think, he has sadly garbled, though<br/>
unintentionally, a quotation he has<br/>
made from our mutual friend Rev.<br/>
Henry Ward Beecher, on the non-<br/>
equality of the negro race with the<br/>
Caucasian race. It is true that Mr.<br/>
Beecher and every other sensible man,<br/>
so far as we know, believes that the<br/>
negro race, as it appears now, is not<br/>
equal in point of mental stamina with<br/>
the white race. But we know Mr. Bee-<br/>
cher does hold firmly that before the law<br/>
the African is equal with the white<br/>
man and that the act of emancipation<br/>
virtually promised him that he should<br/>
enjoy equal privileges at the ballot<br/>
box with his poor and weak white<br/>
neighbor. Senator Wade of Ohio has<br/>
well expressed this idea of equality in<br/>
a late speech from which we have tak-<br/>
en an extract and given it place in<br/>
this No.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not only our brother, but others not<br/>
a few, intimate that it will do no good<br/>
to agitate here, so far away from our<br/>
country the political questions that<br/>
are continually stirring her up from<br/>
centro to circumference. We must<br/>
frankly say that we cannot bring our<br/>
minds to coincide with this view of<br/>
duty in regard to the present crisis.<br/>
We believe that questions involving<br/>
the great principles of justice and mer-<br/>
cy should be agitated everywhere. We<br/>
regard Negro suffrage as one of those<br/>
questions—-It is the great question of<br/>
the age, and of the world. The<br/>
principles involved in it concern all<br/>
nations, especially such heathen na-<br/>
tions as Siam. To enjoy the privilege<br/>
of being an American citizen, or only<br/>
a citizen of the world, and remain dumb<br/>
as an editor on this question, would, in<br/>
our estimation, be a sad blot on our<br/>
name in the book of heaven where we<br/>
hope it is recorded—-not to speak of<br/>
the disgrace it ought to be in the eyes<br/>
of fellow sinners here on earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have thus far, endeavored to<br/>
conduct our journal on the principle<br/>
of giving both the shady and the sun-<br/>
ny side of all political affairs that come<br/>
within the range of our pen. We have,<br/>
doubtless, more or less come short of<br/>
our mark in this matter as we know we<br/>
do in almost every thing we attempt.<br/>
it being convenient, and as we thought,<br/>
timely, we gave the shady side of the<br/>
U. S. in our last issue, fully purporting<br/>
to show the sunny side in a succeeding<br/>
No. And now as our “twin brother”<br/>
has written a capital article on that sub-<br/>
ject, we do with much pleasure give<br/>
it a conspicuous place in our columns<br/>
to day, being fully authorized to do so<br/>
by the following note.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MY DEAR Dr. BRADLEY—In reply<br/>
to your question I may say that my<br/>
letter was written for your eye alone<br/>
and I have no desire for its publica-<br/>
tion. Still I think its views are sound<br/>
and true. If you wish it published it<br/>
is at your service as a whole—not in<br/>
part, but I see no special good in its<br/>
publication.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Your affectionately.
W. DEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok May 17th, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MY DEAR FRIEND-—As your "twin-<br/>
brother"—-I propose giving you a<br/>
proof of my fraternal interest in your<br/>
work, and welfare by telling you that<br/>
I don't like some things in the late<br/>
issues of the Bangkok Recorder.<br/>
Some of the articles from your corres-<br/>
pondents are not sufficiently courteous<br/>
in language, and gentlemanly in spi-<br/>
rit, to entitle them to a place in a<br/>
public journal, presided over by a<br/>
christian gentleman; and disclaim as<br/>
you may, against all personal respon-<br/>
sibility in the articles you select or<br/>
admit from your contributers, you<br/>
are nevertheless, held in some impor-<br/>
tant sense, accountable for the senti-<br/>
ments and style of every article ap-<br/>
pearing in your columns. If not by<br/>
men here, surely by your readers abroad,<br/>
the character and reputation of the<br/>
Recorder and its Editor, will be mea-<br/>
sured by the intellectual, moral, and<br/>
political character of the paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again I think you damage your<br/>
cause, do discredit to yourself and<br/>
dishonor your country, by the edito-<br/>
rial or leading articles of the last No.<br/>
in which you attempt to give your<br/>
readers, a picture of the present state<br/>
of things connected with the govern-<br/>
ment of the United States. In the<br/>
first place, I think you are mistaken<br/>
in regard to the facts in the case, and<br/>
next, even if they were true as you<br/>
suppose, there promises no good but<br/>
harm to result from their publication<br/>
here. You neither profess nor desire<br/>
to occupy the position of an enemy of<br/>
our country, and still no one could<br/>
take a stand better calculated to dis-<br/>
grace our country in the estimation of<br/>
her enemies and all foreigners, readers<br/>
of your paper than the one you take<br/>
in the last No. First then as to facts<br/>
It would seem that on the evening of<br/>
the 22nd of Feb. the most extrava-<br/>
gant and inflamatory reports of Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson's speech, on that day in<br/>
Washington, were sent by Telegrams,<br/>
and industriously circulated at the ga-<br/>
therings in New York for the recep-<br/>
tion of Gen. Grant and others. Spe-<br/>
cial pains were taken to inform all as<br/>
far as possible, that the "President had<br/>
openly thrown himself into the hands<br/>
of the Copperheads—that he had ha-<br/>
rangued a mob of whitewashed Seces-<br/>
sionists and Rebels in Washington—-<br/>
repudiating all connection with the<br/>
Union party,—-denouncing in the most<br/>
vituperative language the recognized<br/>
leaders of that party in Congress, and<br/>
through the country. It was declar-<br/>
ed in those despatches that no Union<br/>
man in Washington, even, professed<br/>
any longer to count upon his coope-<br/>
ration in support of the principles of<br/>
the Union party." The perusal of<br/>
his address, must dispel that delusion<br/>
and disclose the origin of the defama-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would seem that a general meeting<br/>
on the anniversary of Washington, as-<br/>
sembled in the city that bears his<br/>
name, presided over by Philip A.<br/>
Fendall the oldest member of the<br/>
Washington Bar, and that meeting<br/>
was addressed by such men as Mont-<br/>
gomery Blair, Gov. Cox, Judge Kin-<br/>
ney, two or three Representatives<br/>
from different States, and as many Se-<br/>
nators of known patriotism and de-<br/>
fenders of the Union. At the close a<br/>
Committee from this mass-meeting<br/>
with the presiding officer for its chair-<br/>
man, waited on the President with<br/>
Resolutions expressing their devotion<br/>
to the Union and to his policy for<br/>
preserving it, after which the Presi-<br/>
dent was persuaded to address the as-<br/>
sembled multitude from the balcony<br/>
of the White House and hence the<br/>
speech in question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The speech, evidently extempore,<br/>
was straight forward, manly, and pa-<br/>
triotic to the core. The great thought<br/>
that pervades the whole was his un-<br/>
alterable determination to STAND BY<br/>
THE CONSTITUTION, as the only guide<br/>
of his official conduct. I read the<br/>
speech carefully from the beginning to<br/>
the end, and failed to discover the<br/>
slightest intimation that he had de-<br/>
parted from the principles of the Uni-<br/>
on Party, or the grand policy of his<br/>
honored predecessor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The position and principles adopted<br/>
by the President which have called<br/>
forth the hostility of a faction in con-<br/>
gress and the country, are sustained<br/>
by the Honorable Secretary of State,<br/>
who stood by the immortal Lincoln in<br/>
his life, and came near to following<br/>
him in his death, and whose patriotism<br/>
is still unquestioned. He spoke on<br/>
the same day, but in a different city<br/>
with the President, saying "I have<br/>
said I apprehend no serious difficulty<br/>
or calamity. This confidence arises<br/>
from the conviction which I entertain<br/>
that there never was and never can<br/>
be any successful process for the res-<br/>
toration of union and harmony among<br/>
the States except the one with which<br/>
the President has avowed himself sa-<br/>
tisfied" and then asks "Ought the<br/>
President of the United States to be<br/>
denounced in the House of his ene-<br/>
mies—-much more ought he to be de-<br/>
nounced in the House of his friends,<br/>
for refusing, in the absence of any<br/>
necessity, to occupy or retain, and to<br/>
exercise powers greater than those ex-<br/>
ercised by any Imperial Magistrate in<br/>
the world? Judge ye! I trust that<br/>
this fault of declining Imperial pow-<br/>
er, too hastily tendered by a too con-<br/>
fiding congress may be forgiven by a<br/>
generous people."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, the President and his policy<br/>
are sustained by Henry Ward Beecher,<br/>
the acknowledged leader of Radical-<br/>
ism so far as that may be in har-<br/>
mony with religion and constitutional<br/>
government. There are other radical<br/>
leaders who trample on all that is sa-<br/>
cred in religion and binding in poli-<br/>
tical compacts. I once heard one of<br/>
the persons mentioned in the Presi-<br/>
dent's speech, say before a public as-<br/>
sembly that he "would rejoice to see<br/>
the day, when every clergyman in the<br/>
land should be silenced, every church<br/>
closed, and the Union of the States<br/>
dissolved," The public avowal of<br/>
such sentiments may well entitle their<br/>
author to share in the honors and<br/>
awards of Jefferson Davis, and justify<br/>
the President in holding up his name<br/>
as a warning to the lovers of order and<br/>
the friends of his country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Beecher, while he ranks among<br/>
the master spirits of the age, belongs<br/>
to a different school of politics and<br/>
religion. He has done as much, per-<br/>
haps, as any other man in an un-official<br/>
capacity for the freedom of the slave<br/>
and the liberty of the country, though<br/>
he has had the penetration to discover,<br/>
and the courage to say, that "we are<br/>
told by zealous and fanatical indi-<br/>
viduals that all men are equal. We<br/>
know better. They are not equal."<br/>
This gentleman, the Champion of li-<br/>
berty, and the advocate of the oppress-<br/>
ed, declares in a public address in<br/>
New York, his approval of the Presi-<br/>
dent's principles and policy in the<br/>
question at issue between him and<br/>
some members of the U. S. Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Sherman says in a public<br/>
address "I know the man at the head<br/>
of affairs at Washington, and all we<br/>
have to do is to trust him. Exercise<br/>
forbearance and patriotism and give<br/>
the President our hearty and earnest<br/>
support." The Hon. Senator of Wis-<br/>
consin calls on the Republicans of Con-<br/>
necticut to stand by the President. He<br/>
contended, that President Johnson has<br/>
carried out every requirement of the<br/>
Baltimore platform of 1864, and no set<br/>
of men have a right to bind him to<br/>
another. He adds that "Andrew<br/>
Johnson is carrying out the policy of<br/>
the lamented Lincoln," and that "he<br/>
has not, and never will betray his<br/>
trust."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. Dr. Bacon of New Haven,<br/>
spoke at the same meeting and in<br/>
sympathy with the same sentiments,<br/>
while he said he did not come espe-<br/>
cially to endorse President Johnson or<br/>
any body else.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hon. Mr. Raymond, says in a<br/>
public speech "It seems to me that the<br/>
course he (the President) has adopted<br/>
is not only the wisest, the most just,<br/>
but it is the one which in the end<br/>
must prevail."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The men from whose language I<br/>
have quoted above, are men of ac-<br/>
knowledged wisdom, some of them are<br/>
connected with the present Congress,<br/>
and enjoy special facilities for knowing<br/>
whereof they affirm, all are Republi-<br/>
cans, and for the rights of the freed-<br/>
men, and the preservation of the Un-<br/>
ion, of the country, and all recognize<br/>
the written charter of our liberty as<br/>
the guide of our conduct; and we may<br/>
safely regard that man the best states-<br/>
man who adhers the most closely, the<br/>
most conscientiously to the letter and<br/>
spirit of that great instrument. These<br/>
men all—-and many more in high<br/>
places in the land might be added to<br/>
the list, have expressed earnestly<br/>
and honestly their approval of the<br/>
President's course of conduct in op-<br/>
position to the policy of a faction, who<br/>
seem determined that nothing shall be<br/>
done though it meet their wishes, if<br/>
it is not done in their way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was therefore pained to read in<br/>
the last issue of the Recorder your<br/>
remarks under the head of "Present<br/>
Crisis" calculated to produce the im-<br/>
pression that our country having suc-<br/>
cessfully struggled against the rebel-<br/>
lion of the South, is now to be ruined<br/>
by a rebellion at the North. This I<br/>
regard as giving publicity to ground-<br/>
less scandal, calculated to produce per-<br/>
nicious results, inviting our enemies<br/>
to rejoice in our promised downfall,<br/>
and awakening needless fears among<br/>
the friends of our country, and bring-<br/>
ing the Editor under the reproof of<br/>
the divine injunction. "Thou shalt<br/>
not speak evil of the ruler of thy<br/>
people."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You will, I am sure, receive these<br/>
suggestions in the spirit of kindness<br/>
and candor which prompted them. I<br/>
have with you a common interest of<br/>
country, and a common interest in<br/>
the kingdom of Jesus Christ, and I<br/>
claim also an interest in the Recorder,<br/>
as an instrument of good to this coun-<br/>
try, and don't like to see you cut off<br/>
the right arm of its strength, by put-<br/>
ting into its columns matter to mislead<br/>
the reader, and cater to unprofitable<br/>
gossip. Your plan, to give to the read-<br/>
ers abroad, facts concerning the pro-<br/>
ductions of this country, the customs<br/>
of the people, or whatever may have<br/>
a tendency to bless this nation or en-<br/>
lighten others concerning it, is wise;<br/>
but the repeated allusions to anarchy,<br/>
suffering and slavery in our own<br/>
country, indicate that the Editor is<br/>
in want of matter to fill up his paper,<br/>
or wanting in judgment in the selec-<br/>
tion of his subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Most sincerely,
Your friend and "twin-brother,"
W. DEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My Dear Mr. Editor.—A short<br/>
time ago oil was Tls. 4 P 20 catties<br/>
it is now Tls. 5½ maw (a reputed 20<br/>
cattie jar, but which, if weighed, would<br/>
be nearer 19 catties.) I also get a<br/>
receipt for the oil, similar to an opium<br/>
receipt, and this I am told is because<br/>
the farmer alone can sell it and can<br/>
also charge what price he thinks pro-<br/>
per, and that it is very likely the price<br/>
will be higher yet. Do you think<br/>
that an article of consumption such as<br/>
oil, which every one must have, should<br/>
be so heavily taxed (directly or in-<br/>
directly) as it is? Is there no better<br/>
way of deriving a revenue than by<br/>
raising the prices of the ordinary ne-<br/>
cessaries of life?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another complaint I have to make<br/>
is, that a great many of the scales, and<br/>
weights used by the market, people<br/>
are false, and that the Police refuse<br/>
to arrest the parties in whose posses-<br/>
sion they are found, on the plea that<br/>
they are all alike or nearly so, and<br/>
that when you purchase anything, you<br/>
are not supposed to do so by the cat-<br/>
tle (standard) but by the cattle as<br/>
marked on the Chinaman's steelyard.<br/>
This is certainly "buying a cat in a<br/>
bag" and a disgraceful state of affairs.<br/>
In buying rice the sellers refuse to<br/>
sell by my bucket, (being properly<br/>
made and marked by some Siamese<br/>
supposed to be duly authorised to do<br/>
so) but insist upon using their own,<br/>
not forgetting to point out a similar<br/>
mark on their bucket which is much<br/>
shallower than mine, now what is the<br/>
good of a mark on the top of the<br/>
bucket, if the bottom is allowed to be<br/>
knocked up an inch or more? The<br/>
cocoanut-shells too, with which they<br/>
measure rice are invariably coated a-<br/>
bout ½ an inch thick on the inside<br/>
with a kind of paste so as to defraud<br/>
the purchaser of a portion of the rice.<br/>
Why does not the Government ap-<br/>
point an inspector of weights and<br/>
measures, and heavily fine all those<br/>
found using false ones? The sum thus<br/>
realized would be surprising. I've<br/>
seen many things during my flying<br/>
visits to Bangkok which might be im-<br/>
proved with very little trouble, but I<br/>
suppose you who live constantly in this<br/>
atmosphere either can't see or smell,<br/>
or else you have settled down quietly<br/>
determined to take things as you find<br/>
them. Can't you get me a berth as<br/>
inspector of weights and measures and<br/>
allow me the fines as a salary? I've<br/>
been "taking notes" and you may<br/>
expect to hear from me agaiu soon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours &c.
SOMEBODY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DEAR SIR—You will be surprised<br/>
at the unintentional compliments which<br/>
your correspondent D. has paid me in<br/>
your issue of last week. I ascertained<br/>
by accident that the portrait he alludes<br/>
to, was taken by me, by order of His<br/>
Majesty, and the negative plates, at the<br/>
request of the king, were handed over<br/>
to the Siamese noble who printed<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours &c.
J. Thomson.
Photographer.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok May 14th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Domestio Animals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER III.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose now to write of Liz-<br/>
ards. These creatures may well be<br/>
said to be domesticated, for they feel<br/>
perfectly at home in all the habita-<br/>
tions of man in Siam, and all their<br/>
families are well pleased to have them<br/>
thus intimate. They seem to prefer<br/>
much the best kind of human dwell-<br/>
ings, and especially such as have white<br/>
walls and ceiling. Very likely this<br/>
preference is more in appearance than<br/>
in reality, for they are more readi-<br/>
ly soon in such houses than in those<br/>
whose rooms are all dark and sombre.<br/>
Persons coming from the western world<br/>
without any experience of lizards as<br/>
domestic animals, generally fancy that<br/>
it would be intolerable to live with<br/>
them as we do here in Bangkok. But<br/>
the truth is, that is a mere nervous<br/>
whim. Lizards are by no means<br/>
unpleasant companions in your dining,<br/>
sitting, or even sleeping room. They<br/>
never bite or sting, seldom fight or<br/>
have any quarrels, rarely steal and<br/>
then in such small quantities and so<br/>
genteelly as not to be accounted any<br/>
offence. They never nibble furniture,<br/>
and seldom soil books or clothing.<br/>
They make very little litter and that<br/>
not particularly unpleasant, and their<br/>
mode of talking and singing is of the<br/>
most quiet kind. The greatest troub-<br/>
le they ever make is, when they get<br/>
into your melodion or piano and foul<br/>
it somewhat, and lay there their beau-<br/>
tiful pearl white eggs not one<br/>
third the size of a sparrow's egg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They are of positive service in<br/>
catching and disposing of flies, and all<br/>
the smaller kinds of bugs, and they<br/>
always to do this work by can-<br/>
dle light. You will see them every<br/>
evening all about your white ceiling<br/>
and running down on the white or<br/>
papered walls, charming the flies and<br/>
bugs to come within the limits of<br/>
their spring. We cannot tell how<br/>
they spell—bind their game: all we can<br/>
say is, that it is evident, enough they<br/>
have much power in that way. When<br/>
they have drawn their object within<br/>
a foot or more, they then dart with<br/>
lightening speed and catch it up in<br/>
their mouth and swallow it down,<br/>
usually, without doubting. But oc-<br/>
casionally they catch a creature which<br/>
is a little too large to swallow without<br/>
some preliminaries. Hence they stop<br/>
a few moments, and seem to consider<br/>
what it is best to do with it. Then,<br/>
if it be not an enormous mouthful,<br/>
they will make quite an ado in break-<br/>
ing it down by mastication, and then<br/>
swallow it at once. They never carve<br/>
anything into mouthfuls. If they<br/>
happen to have caught a bug or crick-<br/>
et almost too much for them to grap-<br/>
ple, they will hold it a few seconds in<br/>
their mouth, and then give it as<br/>
thorough a thumping on the wall or<br/>
ceiling, in their feeble capacity, as a<br/>
dog shakes a snake to death by a ra-<br/>
pid rotation of his head right and left.<br/>
It sometimes, though rarely, happens<br/>
that they catch a creature too strong<br/>
for them. In that case they are oblig-<br/>
ed to let it go, and seem to feel quite<br/>
chagrined by the failure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is curious to see how sure-foot-<br/>
ed they are in running and bounding<br/>
on the ceiling with their backs down-<br/>
ward. It does not appear that they<br/>
resist the power of gravitation by any<br/>
thing like hooks or claws on their toes,<br/>
but that they have the power of mak-<br/>
ing gravitation turn upward and<br/>
press their feet up to the ceiling just<br/>
as hard as their circumstances require.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They have nevertheless “to take heed<br/>
to their steps” and consider well just<br/>
how far to use the air pumps with<br/>
which their maker has furnished their<br/>
four feet. Sometimes, being as it<br/>
were in a thoughtless state of mind,<br/>
they loose their hold, and fall slap<br/>
down on the floor, or the table, or<br/>
perhaps, on your head or bare neck or<br/>
bosom. We confess that such a visit<br/>
is far from being agreeable to him<br/>
who receives it, and we cannot blame<br/>
any one, especially a lady in full dress,<br/>
for bounding and screaming to the<br/>
top of her voice when she so suddenly<br/>
feels the cold feet of a lizard in her<br/>
bosom. But such accidents are of<br/>
such rare occurrence, that even the<br/>
most nervous persons among us soon<br/>
cease to have any fear that they shall<br/>
ever be shocked in that way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With only this slight draw back<br/>
we must say that lizards are very<br/>
pleasant little creatures in a house.<br/>
They seem essentially to aid in enliven-<br/>
ing a parlor well lighted. They are<br/>
beautifully formed and clothed by<br/>
their maker, with a pearly white skin,<br/>
charmingly dotted with sky blue and<br/>
brown.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The largest of this species of lizards<br/>
is about three inches in length includ-<br/>
ing the tail, which is about one inch<br/>
and a quarter long. Their size around<br/>
the body is less than an inch.<br/>
Their general form is that of a croco-<br/>
dile having four feet and five toes on<br/>
each. Their eyes are of the size of a<br/>
small coriander seed, and brilliantly<br/>
black. Their gentle chirping about<br/>
your house in the stillness of night,<br/>
though in no sense musical, becomes<br/>
decidedly agreeable by a little acquain-<br/>
tance and experience.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In books on Herpetology or Reptiles<br/>
these house lizards are denominated<br/>
the noiseless gecko. It is supposed by<br/>
some Biblical scholars that an animal<br/>
of this species, instead of the spider, is<br/>
the one referred to in Proverbs 30:<br/>
28th, which Jerome rendered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The gecko taketh hold with her<br/>
hands
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And dwelleth in king's palaces."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We intimated in our issue of the 8d<br/>
inst. that the wet season had fully com-<br/>
menced. About that time we had ma-<br/>
ny smart showers of rain, resurrecting<br/>
vegetable life gloriously, and so thor-<br/>
oughly soaking the parched earth, that<br/>
the fallow ground could be broken up<br/>
and prepared to receive the seed-rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those delightful showers were succeed-<br/>
ed by ten days of almost entire absence of<br/>
rain, yet by no means alarming. But<br/>
on the 18th inst. it commenced raining<br/>
again, and poured down nearly three<br/>
days and three nights with but slight<br/>
intermissions. A rain so powerful and<br/>
continuous was quite out of the usual<br/>
course of the seasons here in Bangkok,<br/>
and almost unprecedented for any sea-<br/>
son. On Monday the 14th the rain<br/>
came down, as one might suppose it did<br/>
at Noah's deluge, and was attended by<br/>
vivid lightning, heavy thunder, and<br/>
strong wind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Canal Bangkok-Yai, at the<br/>
mouth of which we live, though com-<br/>
ing all its course through a dead level<br/>
plain, ran like a mighty river in a hil-<br/>
ly country when urged onward by a<br/>
flood. It was ebb tide and its usual<br/>
flow is rather slow. But the vast ac-<br/>
cumulation of waters inland, seeking<br/>
for an outlet, had made a new stream of<br/>
it, so that it was almost unnavigable.<br/>
Those wishing to stem the current<br/>
could not, and those floating on it<br/>
felt themselves in jeopardy every mo-<br/>
ment. During much of the forenoon<br/>
of the 14th, we heard almost continu-<br/>
ally the uproar made by the capsizing<br/>
of sampans, collision of larger boats,<br/>
and the cries of men, women, and chil-<br/>
dren, who had been turned out into the<br/>
flood, with all their goods boat-boards,<br/>
hats, etc, rushing away wholly beyond<br/>
their control. Happily all could swim<br/>
and we heard of none that were drown-<br/>
ed. Early in the afternoon there was<br/>
made a far greater cry than ever—-<br/>
'paa loi ma,' 'paa loi ma'—-(drifting<br/>
floating houses are coming, drifting<br/>
floating houses are coming.) We ran to<br/>
our landing, and beheld drifting float-<br/>
ing houses were coming sure enough.<br/>
There were three of them not more<br/>
than a quarter of a mile off, which had<br/>
just come in sight around a bend.<br/>
No wonder the heathen wailed at the<br/>
sight, for there seemed hardly room<br/>
for the houses to pass between the<br/>
two unbroken lines of sugar boats<br/>
that were moored on either side of the<br/>
canal. All their occupants were out,<br/>
and armed with oars and poles expect-<br/>
ing all to be driven from their moor-<br/>
ings and smashed up in one general<br/>
collision. But the result was far bet-<br/>
ter than anticipated. The boats were so<br/>
well defended by men, women, and<br/>
children, that they kept the floating<br/>
houses quite clear of them. Only one<br/>
boat we think, was driven from its moor-<br/>
ing, and but few any way injured. But<br/>
the drifting houses looked as if they<br/>
had suffered great damage—-one of<br/>
them being almost an entire wreck.<br/>
They rushed out into the river and suc-<br/>
ceeded in hitching on to the floating<br/>
hous[?] that were firmly moored, and<br/>
there waited for the flood tide, when<br/>
they came leisurely back to their old<br/>
moorings up the canal a mile or more.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Royal treasury was burglarious-<br/>
ly entered a few days ago, and 53<br/>
catties of ticals abstracted therefrom.<br/>
This shows a slack state of discipline in<br/>
H. M. Army, and is quite in keeping<br/>
with the watch they keep at the ap-<br/>
proaches to the Palace, especially dur-<br/>
ing the night. It is reported that<br/>
there was a guard on duty at the<br/>
treasury when it was robbed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that A. Markwald Esq.<br/>
Siamese Consul at Berlin Prussia, has<br/>
sent to H. E. Chow Phya Kralahom,<br/>
an electro-telegraph, with wire and<br/>
all the apparatus complete. It was<br/>
delivered to His Excellency a few<br/>
days ago, and is now in excellent<br/>
working order.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
J. Thomson Esq. the distinguish-<br/>
ed photographer and traveler to the<br/>
famous ruins of Ongcor in Cam-<br/>
bodia, left this on the 14th inst. as<br/>
passenger per "Chow Phya," for<br/>
Singapore. We learn that it is his in-<br/>
tention to proceed as soon as possible<br/>
to England to complete the splendid<br/>
work he has in hand of opening those<br/>
magnificent ruins (perhaps one of the<br/>
7 wonders of the world) to the view<br/>
of the christian world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Thomson, by means of the<br/>
many perfect pictures he has taken of<br/>
those ruins by great dint of affort and<br/>
perseverence has enjoyed great priv-<br/>
ileges for immortalizing his name in<br/>
this work, and we fervently hope he<br/>
will do it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Wade. of Ohio ("Rare Old<br/>
Ben" of the Western Reserve, God<br/>
bless him!), made a noble speech in<br/>
the Senate on Thursday last, upon the<br/>
question of Reconstruction, in reply<br/>
to Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin. From<br/>
the telegraphic report, which rarely<br/>
does justice to any speaker, we glean<br/>
a few sentences, which will show the<br/>
high ground of principle on which Mr.<br/>
Wade fearlessly takes his stand:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I have never had but one polar star<br/>
to my action, and that I adhere to, wheth-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
or I am in a majority or in a minority. I<br/>
never intend to be stamped from in one<br/>
single inch. I have fixed my eye upon<br/>
the great principles of eternal justice and<br/>
right, and it has borne me triumphantly<br/>
through all difficulties in my legislative<br/>
career since I had a seat in this body. I<br/>
can triumphantly say that I have stood<br/>
upon this floor when I had not ten men<br/>
to support me against the entire Senate,<br/>
and when the principle I advocated was<br/>
unfortunately more unpopular than these<br/>
I announce to-day. How was the whole<br/>
Senate startled by the idea of universal<br/>
emancipation ten, or fifteen, or even five<br/>
years ago? Talk about unpopular doc-<br/>
trines and attempts to intimidate me by<br/>
the intimations that I shall be found in the<br/>
a minority among the people. I know<br/>
the people better, I think. I know that<br/>
I read the great pathway of rectitude<br/>
and right, and I don't care who opposes<br/>
me, God Almightv is my guide. He goes<br/>
before me and strengthens me. He has<br/>
never failed me yet, and I don't fear He<br/>
will on this occasion. Now, Mr. President,<br/>
I will not boast; but, I, with many others<br/>
on this floor, can look back to our pre-<br/>
ceding course; and, on this subject, with<br/>
great satisfaction, I think, sir, that I can<br/>
say, with Paul, that 'we have fought a<br/>
good fight.' We are not entirely through<br/>
with it, I admit. We may have a little<br/>
further to go in the same direction, but<br/>
our path is fortunately easier than it has<br/>
been. I, sir, I keep the faith, and I<br/>
have no doubt in it: I never shrink, I never<br/>
fear; I never feared it, and I never had the least<br/>
doubt how this whole thing would be sett-<br/>
tled, and it will all come right: if we are<br/>
true to our convictions. I give the Pre-<br/>
sident full credit for all he has done, and<br/>
honor him for the manner in which he<br/>
has insisted on the great questions I<br/>
have already alluded to. He has com-<br/>
menced, as a were, to complete this great<br/>
arch of Freedom right. He has laid the<br/>
foundation deep upon the rock of justice<br/>
and right. He has demanded that BEFORE<br/>
THE LAW ALL MEN SHALL BE EQUAL. He<br/>
has demanded that slavery shall be aboli-<br/>
shed. I agree with him so far, and honor him<br/>
that he stands firmly where he does. But,<br/>
sir, he has failed to put the keystone up-<br/>
on the arch that he had built; and, if you<br/>
leave it where it is, it will go to ruin. I<br/>
want, when this question is once settled,<br/>
to be entirely done with it. I don't want<br/>
eternally to be fighting over the question<br/>
of slavery, and distinctions among the<br/>
races and privileges of the American<br/>
people. Now, sir, I say to President<br/>
Johnson, to the Democratic party, and to<br/>
the people of the United States, that I<br/>
will never yield the controversy until all<br/>
men in America shall stand upon an equal<br/>
footing—EQUAL BEFORE THE LAW IN EVERY<br/>
RESPECT. When they will fix it so that<br/>
that can be done, I will give up the con-<br/>
troversy in which I have been engaged<br/>
for so many years, and no man will re-<br/>
joice more than I that I have been reliev-<br/>
ed from it. I was one of those who was<br/>
an early advocate of bringing those col-<br/>
ored people into your army, invoking<br/>
their aid to put down the rebellion. Over<br/>
and over did I urge it upon the Executive<br/>
two years before it took effect. Their<br/>
employment is a necessity of enforcing up-<br/>
on me a duty. Would I lend my voice<br/>
and my vote to induce that people to be<br/>
jeopardy their lives in defense of their<br/>
country, and then turn them over to the<br/>
mercy of their enemies? Sir, the man<br/>
that would do it deliberately and know-<br/>
ingly is the meanest of God's creatures.<br/>
Tempt them into the service, let them<br/>
fight through the war, and then desert<br/>
them to their enemies to be destroyed!<br/>
The senator from Wisconsin did not al-<br/>
lude to this at all. His whole sympathy<br/>
was with the rebels—the men who en-<br/>
dured treason to the Constitution—<br/>
the men who have buried three or four<br/>
hundred thousand of our breasted sons.<br/>
They were the men who had his sym-<br/>
pathy; but the brave colored men, weak<br/>
and uninfluential, yet who gave you the<br/>
strongest aid, without which you could<br/>
never have got through the war—they<br/>
have no part of his sympathy."—N. Y.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Strong Characters.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Strength of character consists of two<br/>
things-—power of will and power of<br/>
self restraint. It requires two things,<br/>
therefore, for its existence-—strong feel-<br/>
ings and strong command over them.<br/>
Now it is here we make a great mis-<br/>
take; we mistake strong feelings for<br/>
strong character. A man who bears<br/>
all before him, before whose frown<br/>
domestics tremble, and whose bursts<br/>
of fury make the children of the house-<br/>
hold quake-—because he has his will<br/>
obeyed, and his own way in all things,<br/>
we call him a strong man. The truth<br/>
is he is the weak man; it is his pas-<br/>
sions that are strong; he, mastered by<br/>
them, is weak. You must measure<br/>
the strength of a man by the power of<br/>
the feeling he subdues, not by the<br/>
power of those which subdue him.<br/>
And hence composure is very often<br/>
the highest result of strength. Did<br/>
we ever see a man receive a flagrant<br/>
insult, and only grow a little pale, and<br/>
then reply quietly? That is a man<br/>
spiritually strong. Or did we ever<br/>
see a man in anguish, stand as if carv-<br/>
ed of solid rock, mastering himself?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Or bearing a hopeless daily trial re-<br/>
main silent, and never tell the world<br/>
what cankered his home peace? That<br/>
is strength. He who, with strong<br/>
passions remains chaste; he who, keenly<br/>
sensitive, with many powers of indig-<br/>
nation in him, can be provoked, and<br/>
yet restrain himself, and forgive-—these<br/>
are the strong men the spiritual<br/>
heroes.—-Rev. F. W. Robertson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most important incident of the<br/>
week in France has been the debate<br/>
and division in the French Chamber<br/>
on the amendment of the tiers-parti,<br/>
affirming that the time had arrived for<br/>
more liberty. The amendment was<br/>
couched in moderate language. It<br/>
merely went to the extent of saying<br/>
that "the Legislative Body believes<br/>
that it is expressing the public senti-<br/>
ment in bringing to the foot of the<br/>
throne the wish that your Majesty may<br/>
give to the great Act of 1860 the de-<br/>
velopment of which it is capable. An<br/>
experience of five years appears to us<br/>
to have demonstrated the propriety<br/>
and opportuneness of such a step."<br/>
The debate was opened on the 17th<br/>
inst. by a very powerful and at the<br/>
same time very moderate speech from<br/>
M. Buffet, one of the leaders of the<br/>
party. M. Buffet has had considera-<br/>
ble parliamentary experience, both as<br/>
a deputy and a minister, having begun<br/>
his political career as a member of the<br/>
Constituent Assembly in 1848, and<br/>
afterwards served in the Cabinet with<br/>
M. Rouber; and his high character as<br/>
a consistent and thoughtful politician<br/>
always ensures him a respectful and at-<br/>
tentive hearing in the House. The<br/>
debate extended over two days. Va-<br/>
rious clever speakers among the Opposi-<br/>
tion and several of the habitual sup-<br/>
porters of the Government spoke in<br/>
energetic terms in favour of the amend-<br/>
ment; but not only did the Govern-<br/>
ment oppose it with equal energy, but<br/>
M. Rouber, on whom, as usual, devolv-<br/>
ed the task of defending the course<br/>
resolved to be pursued, threw out none<br/>
of those words of hope and encour-<br/>
agement with which it was confidently<br/>
stated he would be inspired on this<br/>
occasion. M. Rouber assured the<br/>
Chamber that a free press was fraught<br/>
with danger to the country; that, anx-<br/>
ious as the Government was to cour-<br/>
onner l'édifice, it could not consent<br/>
to separate itself from the great army<br/>
of the nation and rush forward into<br/>
the enemy's camp, and thus, by im-<br/>
prudent precipitation, endanger the<br/>
cause of order and tranquillity. M.<br/>
Emile Ollivier, although at a very late<br/>
hour, made one of his brilliant replies<br/>
to the Minister of State, stating that<br/>
the future fate of the Imperial dynasty<br/>
depended on the result of this debate.<br/>
M. Ollivier concluded by the bold as-<br/>
sertion that if the opinions of those<br/>
who consider that the Emperor can<br/>
grant liberty prevail, then would the<br/>
empire be founded and established on<br/>
a rock; but if, on the contrary, those<br/>
who maintain such a line of policy to<br/>
be impossible carry the day, then the<br/>
existence of the present Government<br/>
rests on chance. A division was then<br/>
taken, when the number voting against<br/>
the adoption of the amendment were<br/>
188, and those voting in its favour 65,<br/>
by far the largest number of votes re-<br/>
corded against the Government since<br/>
the Corps Legislatif was first called in-<br/>
to existence. On the following day,<br/>
the 20th inst. a proposal that the sys-<br/>
tem at present in force with regard to<br/>
the press should be altered, and that<br/>
offences against the laws should be<br/>
made amenable to the ordinary tribu-<br/>
nals, instead of to the arbitrary Govern-<br/>
ment censor, also received the adhesion<br/>
of 65 members. The Address was<br/>
finally adopted by 251 votes to 17,<br/>
and was presented to the Emperor on<br/>
the 22nd by a deputation from the<br/>
Corps Legislatif. His Majesty replied<br/>
as follows :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The great majority of the Corps<br/>
Législatif have confirmed once more,<br/>
by voting this address, the policy<br/>
which has given you fifteen years of<br/>
tranquillity and prosperity. I thank<br/>
you. Without allowing yourselves to<br/>
be carried away by vain theories pre-<br/>
sented in a seductive garb as alone<br/>
capable of aiding the emancipation of<br/>
thought and the progress of humanity.<br/>
You said to yourselves, 'We also de-<br/>
sire to attain those ends, while regula-<br/>
ting our march by the appeasement of<br/>
passions and the wants of society.' Is<br/>
not our motive the common welfare,<br/>
and what attraction would your mis-<br/>
sion have for you, or my power for me,<br/>
if separated from the love of justice?<br/>
Would you go through such long and<br/>
arduous labours if you were not inspir-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ed by true patriotism! Could I have<br/>
borne the weight of Government for<br/>
the last eighteen years, with its inces-<br/>
sant pre-occupations and heavy respon-<br/>
sibility before God and before the na-<br/>
tion, if I had not felt within me that<br/>
strength which is afforded by the sense<br/>
of duty and by the consciousness of<br/>
having a useful mission to carry out!<br/>
France, equally with ourselves, desires<br/>
progress, stability, and liberty; but a<br/>
liberty which shall develop intelligence,<br/>
generous instincts, and the noble ex-<br/>
ertions of labour—-not a liberty bor-<br/>
dering upon licence, which would excite<br/>
evil passions, destroy all belief, rekindle<br/>
hatred, and give rise to disorder. We<br/>
require a liberty which shall enlighten,<br/>
control, and discuss the actions of the<br/>
Government, but not become an arm<br/>
to undermine and overthrow it. Fif-<br/>
teen years ago, when nominal chief of<br/>
the State, without effective power and<br/>
without support in the Chamber, but<br/>
strong in my conscience and in the<br/>
suffrages which had elected me, I ven-<br/>
tured to declare that France would<br/>
not perish in my hands. I have kept<br/>
my word. For fifteen years France<br/>
has developed and increased, and her<br/>
high destiny will be accomplished. Af-<br/>
ter us our sons will continue our work.<br/>
My guarantee for this is the assistance<br/>
of the great bodies of the State, the<br/>
devotion of the army, the patriotism<br/>
of all good citizens, and, lastly, that<br/>
Divine protection which has never<br/>
failed our country."-—Over. C. Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—-</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">46⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">56</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">64</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do Garden</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">77</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">76</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">77</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅝</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">P 12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅞</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BROWN</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">135</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">39</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">55</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">235</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">640</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">212</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">32⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>3 @ 4 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>4 @ 5 "</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 @ 6 "</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRADOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 {{< news/indent1 >}}"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 {{< news/indent1 >}}"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 {{< news/indent1 >}}"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>18@20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">235</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaslit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">5⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">205</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 Pic.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">175</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">155</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td colspan="4">Tic. 16½ P Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—On Singapore par 10 d. s.<br/>
Hongkong 2 P cent discount 30 d. s. Lon-<br/>
don 4s. 9½d. P 86. m. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Modesty in woman is like color<br/>
on her cheeks-—decidedly becoming if<br/>
not put on.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The London Punch says that a<br/>
Yankee baby will crawl out of his cra-<br/>
dle, take a survey of it, invent an im-<br/>
provement, and apply for a patent be-<br/>
fore he is six months old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A sailor who had served the king<br/>
so long at sea that he almost forgot the<br/>
usages of civilized society on shore,<br/>
went one day into the church at his na-<br/>
tive town at Kirkaldy, in Fife, where it<br/>
happened that the minister chose for<br/>
his text the well known passage, “Who<br/>
will go up with us to Ramoth Gilead?”<br/>
His emphatic appeal being read a sec-<br/>
ond time, and in a still more impressive<br/>
tone of voice, the thoughtless tar<br/>
crammed a quid of tobacco into his<br/>
cheek, rose up, put on his hat, then<br/>
looking around him, and seeing nobody<br/>
moving, he exclaimed, “You cowardly<br/>
lubbers! will none go with the old<br/>
gentleman? I’ll go for one!” So<br/>
out he went, giving three cheers at<br/>
the door, to the amazement of all pres-<br/>
ent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Beer fills many a bottle, and tho<br/>
bottle fills many a bier.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mortality of troops in China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Colonel North moved for a select com-<br/>
mittee to inquire into the mortality in<br/>
the troops in China, the causes which led<br/>
to it, and into the conduct of those de-<br/>
partments of the Government whose duty<br/>
it has been to administer to the wants of<br/>
these troops. The Hon. member stated<br/>
that the Government having consented to<br/>
the appointment of the committee, it was<br/>
unnecessary for him to detain the House<br/>
by entering into details on the subject. It<br/>
was only common justice to the Govern-<br/>
ment to say that it had shown itself an-<br/>
xious to give every information on the<br/>
subject. It was the duty of the House<br/>
to protect the non-commissioned officers<br/>
and privates of our army, who were des-<br/>
patched on the most dangerous service.<br/>
He called attention to the fact that Gen-<br/>
eral Grey had warned the Government<br/>
that it was impossible to accommodate<br/>
the troops of the 2nd battalion, which it<br/>
was proposed to send to China. The<br/>
consequence was that the 2nd battalion<br/>
5th Regiment landed in the month of<br/>
February, 1865, with 32 officers, 839 men,<br/>
47 women, and 79 children; and eight<br/>
months after 1 officer, 35 men, 5 women,<br/>
and 23 children died, and a large number<br/>
were invalided. The 11th Regiment land-<br/>
ed on the 18th May, 1865, and four<br/>
months and a half afterwards 2 officers,<br/>
42 men, 3 women, and 48 children died,<br/>
and 157 were invalided. He also gave<br/>
an account of the great mortality on<br/>
board the GRESHAM and AGINCOURT, and<br/>
read the correspondence which had taken<br/>
place, stating that the total cost of the<br/>
transport of the men who had died was<br/>
no less than £1827. He gave the high-<br/>
est credit to the medical officers for the<br/>
manner in which they had acted, and<br/>
stated that the whole case was one deserving<br/>
the fullest investigation.—-O. C. MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ecclesiastical Intelligence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. Charles Kingsley preached<br/>
on Sunday afternoon, the 13th inst., at<br/>
the Chapel Royal, Whitehall, before an<br/>
immense congregation, the Bishop of<br/>
London, as well as a great many peers<br/>
and members of the House of Commons,<br/>
being present. The preacher, taking his<br/>
text from the words in the Epistle to the<br/>
Hebrews, "Yet once more, and I will<br/>
shake not the earth only, but the heaven,"<br/>
declared that the prophecy was being ful-<br/>
filled once again now, as it was in the first,<br/>
the fifth, the eleventh, and the sixteenth<br/>
centuries. All systems of ethics, theology,<br/>
and science seemed changing, he said.<br/>
Some talked of this as the glorious nine-<br/>
teenth century, the age of progress, the<br/>
eve of a new reformation, of all sorts of<br/>
blessings to humanity; others spoke of it<br/>
as the unhappy nineteenth century, the<br/>
age of scepticism and atheism. Both<br/>
parties were right and both wrong. God<br/>
was shaking not the physical world only,<br/>
but our conceptions of the spiritual world.<br/>
With increased knowledge had [grown?] not<br/>
increased doubt ("that," said Mr. Kings-<br/>
ley, "I deny"), but increased reverence,<br/>
and the truly irreverent time was the<br/>
middle ages, with their system-making<br/>
and their system-mongering, and their<br/>
cosmogonies framed in the cloister, when<br/>
the earth was supposed to be a flat plane<br/>
(the notion of antipodes being unscrip-<br/>
tural), heaven above it with the good<br/>
people in it, and hell below it with the<br/>
wicked—-what could be clearer, since Vir-<br/>
gil [......]—when Tartarus, Styx, and<br/>
Phlegethon were recognized Christian<br/>
entities, and Tartarology was as firmly<br/>
believed in as astronomy now. Astro-<br/>
nomy had shaken the theories of the size<br/>
of the earth, geology those of the age of<br/>
it. Again, in an age which hated torture,<br/>
reformed criminals, and hesitated, right-<br/>
ly or wrongly, about continuing capital<br/>
punishment, people asked whether Scrip-<br/>
ture really [..........] the middle-age<br/>
notions of future punishment-—whether<br/>
such phrases as "outer darkness," the<br/>
"undying worm," "a Gehenna of fire,"<br/>
were to be taken as implying torment<br/>
hereafter, or as the sure punishment of<br/>
sin in this life-—whether heaven might<br/>
not be the moral world full of goodness,<br/>
beneficence, and purity, in which God<br/>
reigned, and hell a condition of hatred,<br/>
malice, impurity. If men were to be on<br/>
in the same theories of religion as men<br/>
in the [.....] times believed, when crim-<br/>
inals were racked, heretics burnt alive;<br/>
and every Musulman slain by the Crus-<br/>
ader was consigned to eternal torture,<br/>
fearful times were coming for the church<br/>
and the people. What then remained for<br/>
us? Surely not an unchangeable cosmo-<br/>
gony or ethical system, or dogmatic the-<br/>
ology, but an unchangeable King, an un-<br/>
changeable kingdom. If we believed in<br/>
that kingdom, in Christ, the King,<br/>
who governed it, knew how to govern it<br/>
better than we did. He it was who was<br/>
shaking the earth and heaven, changing<br/>
opinions, burning the chaff and sifting<br/>
from about the true foundation of Truth.<br/>
The Reformation was a change back to<br/>
apostolic doctrine—-might not the new<br/>
Reformation be still more so?-—This out-<br/>
spoken sermon has attracted much atten-<br/>
tion. Fifteen years ago, the Rev. F. D.<br/>
Maurice was deprived of his professor-ship<br/>
at King's College, London, for propoun-<br/>
ding similar views. Even were there any<br/>
intimation at present to institute a pro-<br/>
secution or persecution against Mr.<br/>
Kingsley, it would have to take a differ-<br/>
ent direction, as he holds his professor-<br/>
ship at Cambridge University under the<br/>
Crown, and the Broad Church party is all<br/>
powerful at Court.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Church paper states that the English<br/>
prelates have followed up their "excom-<br/>
munication" of Bishop Colenso with the<br/>
appointment of his successor, and that all<br/>
the bishops in England have agreed to<br/>
acknowledge the newly-appointed dignit-<br/>
ary.—OVERLAND CHINA MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Austria and Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There still seems to be great doubt<br/>
as to the precise relations between<br/>
Austria and Prussia.—It is now said<br/>
that various military movements have<br/>
been made, and that Prussian troops<br/>
have been pushed forward to the<br/>
Silesian frontier. The fortifications of<br/>
Cracow are also being armed with the<br/>
utmost expedition, the work being<br/>
carried on night and day. With<br/>
matters in such a state, it is rather<br/>
curious to read that the Emperor<br/>
Francis Joseph has written to the<br/>
King of Prussia congratulating him<br/>
on his birthday. It is significantly<br/>
added that the letter contained no<br/>
political allusions. Meantime the<br/>
rumour is renewed that Prussia is<br/>
seeking to buy Austria off, and it is<br/>
said that Prussia has offered fifty<br/>
million thalers if Austria will cede her<br/>
rights over the Duchies.—-O. C. Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
DEATH OF THE EX-QUEEN OF THE<br/>
FRENCH.—-The ex-Queen of the French,<br/>
Marie Amelie, died rather suddenly on<br/>
Saturday morning, at Claremont, near<br/>
Esher, where her Majesty had resided<br/>
during the greater part of her long<br/>
exile. The illustrious lady was born<br/>
20th April, 1782, consequently was<br/>
within a few weeks of completing her<br/>
84th year. Her Majesty was the<br/>
daughter of Ferdinand IV., King of<br/>
the Two Sicilies, and married, Nov.<br/>
25th, 1809, Louis Philippe, Duc d'Or-<br/>
leans, afterwards King of the French,<br/>
by whom her Majesty had a family of<br/>
five sons and two daughters, namely,<br/>
Ferdinand, Duc d'Orleans, who died<br/>
in July, 1842; the Duc de Nemours,<br/>
born in Oct., 1814; Francois, Prince<br/>
de Joinville, born in Aug., 1818; An-<br/>
thony, Duc de Montpensier: and Duc<br/>
d'Aumale, born Jan., 1822; Louisa,<br/>
the late Queen of the Belgians; and<br/>
Princess Clementine, born in June,<br/>
1817, and married in 1843, Prince<br/>
Saxe Coburg Gotha. Her Majesty<br/>
shared all the anxieties of 1830, which<br/>
preceded her husband's elevation to<br/>
the throne on the deposition of his<br/>
kinsman, Charles X. The Queen<br/>
came to England on the abdication of<br/>
her husband in 1848. During her<br/>
residence at Claremont the virtuous<br/>
and pious queen had endeared herself<br/>
to the inhabitants by numerous acts of<br/>
charity. On Saturday afternoon Queen<br/>
Victoria visited the bereaved family.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE MYLOONGYCE CASE.—Colonel<br/>
Sykes,—On April 12, moved an ad-<br/>
dress for a Copy of the correspondence<br/>
of Mr. Knox, the Consul at Bangkok,<br/>
with the Foreign Office, and replies in<br/>
reference to the claim made by Mr.<br/>
Burn, a British subject, and known as<br/>
the Myloongyce case.—-O. C. Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cure for Scandal.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following cure for a terrible dis-<br/>
order of the mouth, commonly called<br/>
"scandal," occurs in a Colonial paper:-—<br/>
"Take of 'good nature' one ounce, of an<br/>
herb called by the Indians 'mind your<br/>
business' one ounce; mix these with a lit-<br/>
tle 'charity for others' and two or three<br/>
sprigs of 'keep your tongue between<br/>
your teeth.' Application:-— "The symp-<br/>
toms are a violent itching in the roof of<br/>
the mouth, which invariably takes place<br/>
when you are in company with a species<br/>
of animals called gossips; when you feel<br/>
a fit of it coming on take a spoonful of<br/>
the mixture, hold it in your mouth which<br/>
you will keep closely shut till you get<br/>
home when you will find a complete cure.<br/>
Should you apprehend a relapse, keep a<br/>
small bottleful about you, and on the<br/>
slightest symptoms repeat the dose."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A WHALE boat, built with<br/>
brass knees. 28 feet long,<br/>
and 6 feet wide, with oars, mast<br/>
and sail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply on board the Siam Bar-<br/>
que "Rapid." (3. w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
