---
linkTitle: 'December 6th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 6th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 6th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 71
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, December 6th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 48.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rain upon Roof.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY WM. L. RHOEMAKER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Is hovering o'er the earth,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And far through her dark dominions<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Ring tinkling tones of mirth.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The moon is no longer beaming,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the clouds are all star-proof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As I sit in my chamber, dreaming<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The night, with her sable pinions,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}E'er yields me much delight<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As the step of the soft rain vernal<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On the rattling roof at night;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I am wrapt in pleasant fancies,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}While slumber is far aloof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As I list to the dainty dances<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
There is no sound diurnal
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}The drops on the window pane,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the leaves, like cymbals clashing,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Keep time with the rhythmic rain;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But no discordant clatter<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of a solitary hoof<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Comes now to mar the patter<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The wind is awake and dashing
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Will a morning fair arise,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With myriad forms of beauty<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To glad our wondering eyes;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For the spirit of Spring is working<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With her marvelous web and woof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And a part of her spell is lurking<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
From the night so grim and sooty
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of flowers and fruitfull trees,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In a land that seems elysian,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}All alive with birds and bees;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where sweetest songs are gushing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Aloud, without reproof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the rippling rills are rushing,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Like the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
It brings no me a vision
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}For the blessing of the skies,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That makes man's face serener,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And lights with joy his eyes.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I anticipate the pleasure<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Heaven grants for his behoof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And my heart leaps to the measure<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
I see the grain grow greener
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}To the music of the rain,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Whose drops, innumerous, glisten<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Like diamonds, through the pane;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And I'm wrapt in pleasant fancies<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}While slumber is far aloof,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As I list to the dainty dances,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the rain upon the roof.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Thus do I muse and listen
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The San Francisco, Japan
and China Line.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The long-talked of line of steam com-<br/>
munication between New York and China,<br/>
VIA Panama and San Francisco, is at last<br/>
to become an accomplished fact. When<br/>
California was settled into one of the<br/>
United States it was believed that our<br/>
monopoly of American correspondence to<br/>
China would soon cease. Ever since 1850<br/>
has the question been agitated, but vari-<br/>
ous influences at Washington have suc-<br/>
ceeded in preventing a subsidy being<br/>
granted to this line. It is the greatest<br/>
anomaly on record that our American<br/>
colonies should have talked so long over a<br/>
thing so practical and useful; no scheme<br/>
could be more legitimate, it was palpable,<br/>
and yet there has been sixteen years' talk<br/>
over it. It may be that we Britishers have<br/>
had a share in that talk, and done all we<br/>
could to prevent what was so injurious to<br/>
our own supremacy as the ocean carriers<br/>
of the world from being carried into effect;<br/>
however, talking is now over, and action<br/>
is in the order of the day. We announced<br/>
in our last issue that the line would be<br/>
opened by the despatch of the Pacific Mail<br/>
Company's steamer COLORADO on the 1st<br/>
January next. This vessel will be follow-<br/>
ed by other steamers of about 4,000 tons,<br/>
built specially for the service, with large<br/>
accommodation for European and Chinese<br/>
passengers. The question as to calling<br/>
at the Sandwich Islands EN ROUTE is still<br/>
in abeyance. It has been decided that the<br/>
terminus in China should be at Hong-<br/>
Kong, with a smaller steamer running be-<br/>
tween Yokohamna, Nagasaki, and Shanghai,<br/>
to connect it with main line. The service<br/>
is arranged to be a monthly one, but as<br/>
the connecting links with Panama and<br/>
New York are three times a month, and<br/>
between Panama and Southampton twice<br/>
a month, we believe the company will<br/>
soon find sufficient inducement to make<br/>
the China line twice a month. For the<br/>
monthly service we understand the Gov-<br/>
ernment subsidy is $500,000 per annum.<br/>
Until the Company's vessels built for this<br/>
line arrive at San Francisco from New<br/>
York the service will be once in three<br/>
months. The Company's steamers leave<br/>
New York on the 1st, 11th, and 21st, but<br/>
the one to correspond with the departure<br/>
from San Francisco for China will be that<br/>
of the 11th, and the route will stand thus:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From New York on the 11th, arriving<br/>
at Aspinwall on the morning of the 19th,<br/>
and in the evening at Panama, say 9 days
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Panama to San Francisco,<br/>
arriving on the 1st or 2nd ... 12 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From San Francisco to Yokoha-<br/>
ma, arriving on the 18th or 19th... 17 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Stop at Yokohamna ... 1 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Yokohamna to Hong Kong,<br/>
arriving about the 25th ... 6 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Total ... 45
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The present route from New York to<br/>
Hong Kong VIA Liverpool and the Red<br/>
Sea occupies 54 to 57 days. The journey<br/>
from England by this route will be as<br/>
follows:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Leaving Southampton by the Royal<br/>
Mail (West India) on the 17th of the<br/>
month, arriving at Aspinwall on the 8th,<br/>
and across to Panama, leaving that port<br/>
on the 9th ... 22 days
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Panama to San Francisco,<br/>
arriving about the 21st ... 12 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Stop at San Francisco until the<br/>
1st of the month ... 9 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From San Francisco to Yokoha-<br/>
ma, arriving on 18th or 19th ... 17 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Total ... 60
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Yokohama to Shanghai or Hong-<br/>
Kong this passage is four and six days<br/>
respectively. The time will of course be<br/>
greatly shortened when the Pacific Rail-<br/>
way shall have been completed, so as to<br/>
form a direct line between New York and<br/>
San Francisco.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although the route VIA Panama, as it<br/>
at present exist, effects no saving of time<br/>
for passengers to England, it will make a<br/>
material difference in the conveyance of<br/>
telegraphic news, San Francisco being in<br/>
telegraphic communication with New<br/>
York, and New York by the Atlantic cable<br/>
with London. We have only to allow the<br/>
sea passage of seventeen days from Yoko-<br/>
hama to San Francisco, or twenty-one days<br/>
from Shanghai, while our service by Galle<br/>
occupies twenty-seven from Yokohama<br/>
and twenty-three from Shanghai, allowing<br/>
that the lines to India are in good work-<br/>
ing order, which unfortunately is the ex-<br/>
ception, and consequently the time of<br/>
transit is indefinite. At all events there<br/>
will then be two distinct channels for the<br/>
conveyance of telegrams between Ameri-<br/>
ca and China, with the certainty of a<br/>
third at no very distant date, since the<br/>
Russo-American telegraph will be com-<br/>
pleted in about two years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rates of passage money fixed by<br/>
the Company are $300 between San Fran-<br/>
cisco and Shanghai or Hong Kong for<br/>
chief cabin, $200 second, and $100 steer-<br/>
age. From Yokohamna, $250, $175, and $95<br/>
for the respective classes. These prices<br/>
include all requisites, except wines and<br/>
liquors, and we consider them moderate<br/>
—at least as a commencement. The rates<br/>
freight have not yet been announced.<br/>
As regards the accommodation for pas-<br/>
sengers and the exact measure of comfort<br/>
they may expect to enjoy we are of course<br/>
not in a position to speak. As soon how-<br/>
ever as the line is open we purpose taking<br/>
steps to furnish a special report on it, as<br/>
we are quite sure that as a change of route<br/>
it will be availed of to a great extent,<br/>
even by residents in China and Japan,<br/>
who have no business with San Francisco,<br/>
and we need not tell our readers that a<br/>
considerable business is conducted between<br/>
Hong Kong and San Francisco.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following comments on the new<br/>
line are from the NEW YORK SHIPPING<br/>
LIST:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We understand that the Pacific Mail<br/>
Steamship Company, to whom Govern-<br/>
ment awarded the contract for carrying<br/>
the mails between San Francisco and<br/>
Hong Kong VIA Kanagawa, have lately<br/>
added to their line the new steamship<br/>
KINAU OTAN, and that they have on the<br/>
stocks, in this City, two more steamers of<br/>
greater tonnage than any vessels belong-<br/>
ing to the Company. The first steamer<br/>
(the COLORADO) will be despatched from<br/>
San Francisco in January next, and be<br/>
followed by the MONTANA, now on the<br/>
way from this port to California. The<br/>
establishment of this line, in connection<br/>
with the direct line recently established<br/>
between New Zealand and Panama, it is<br/>
expected will create a new era in the com-<br/>
merce of the Pacific. The Australasian<br/>
trade will be controlled by the British<br/>
line, but, as an offset to that, we shall have<br/>
the vastly greater and richer traffic of<br/>
China and Japan. The inhabitants of the<br/>
colonies, including Australia, are few in<br/>
number compared with those who will be<br/>
brought into direct commercial intercourse<br/>
with us by means of our steamship line<br/>
across that ocean. Many of the most<br/>
valuable commodities which the world af-<br/>
fords are produced by the people who<br/>
dwell upon the borders of the China sea.<br/>
The silk, tea, and cotton which seek a<br/>
market from that densely populated region<br/>
make it certain that this country will<br/>
come into possession of a great trade from<br/>
beyond the Pacific, as soon as the mail<br/>
steamship line commences its work. Steam<br/>
to China will cause our country to realize<br/>
more forcibly than ever the necessity of a<br/>
Pacific railroad. That the construction of<br/>
this great thoroughfare will be hastened<br/>
by the increase of trade which will be of-<br/>
fered by means of a steamship line from<br/>
the Pacific coast to China, at once appears<br/>
evident. Not only is the commerce be-<br/>
tween China and Japan and our Pacific<br/>
possessions expected to be greatly enlarged,<br/>
but a large passenger traffic is confidently<br/>
looked for. A few years ago China fur-<br/>
nished no passengers. Now large numbers<br/>
travel to and fro by sail, and it is esti-<br/>
mated that at least 5,000 Chinese will<br/>
travel each way by the steamers. Restric-<br/>
tions upon travel have already been re-<br/>
moved by the Japanese authorities, and<br/>
the time may not be far distant when that<br/>
curious and inquisitive people, availing<br/>
themselves of their newly-granted privi-<br/>
leges, will travel extensively, and their<br/>
patronage in this way may become of<br/>
great importance to California."—LON.&<br/>
CHINA KK.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Spirit of Austria.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria is a conventional not a real<br/>
state. There is no Austrian people.<br/>
What is called Austria is a certain ex-<br/>
tent of recruiting ground on which ar-<br/>
mies are raised. She represents a totally<br/>
different order of ideas from Prussia,<br/>
and notably the feudal idea of territorial<br/>
sovereignty, of which she may be said to<br/>
be now the last embodiment. She is the<br/>
result of the doctrine on which all poli-<br/>
tical arrangements have been based in<br/>
Europe for a thousand years that the land<br/>
belongs to the princes and not the peo-<br/>
ple, and that any-divisions of it, how-<br/>
ever arbitrary, on which sovereigns may<br/>
decide, may be made for the benefit of<br/>
particular families. With the disappear-<br/>
ance of the Austrian empire the last<br/>
trace of this doctrine would have disap-<br/>
peared, and we should have entered on<br/>
a new era, in which governments would<br/>
rest on nations, and in which the mon-<br/>
strosity of armies like Benedek's with-<br/>
out a country, and compelled to fight<br/>
for the mere purpose of keeping one man<br/>
and his near kindred in the enjoyment of<br/>
a certain amount of luxury and power;<br/>
would no more be seen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We, therefore, honestly confess that<br/>
we hope that the Prussians will make a<br/>
clean sweep now that they are about it,<br/>
and we think it very likely that Bismark,<br/>
after ten days victory, will not quietly ac-<br/>
cept, through a French mediation, what he<br/>
might have had a month ago without fight-<br/>
ing at all. Austria has not a single claim<br/>
on the sympathy of any human being. The<br/>
house of Hapsburg has done nothing for<br/>
literature, nothing for science, little<br/>
for art, and has probably inflicted more<br/>
misery on the world than any race with<br/>
which it has pleased God to curse it.<br/>
For six hundred years its sword has been<br/>
a very present help to all forms of bigot-<br/>
ry and tyranny.-—NATION
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Exploration of Cambodia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French Minister of Marine and<br/>
the Colonies a few months since appoin-<br/>
ted a commission to explore the great<br/>
river, the lower part of which rounds the<br/>
three French provinces of Cochin China.<br/>
The expedition left Saigon on the 5th of<br/>
June last. and consisted of Captain<br/>
Lagree, the director, a naval lieutenant<br/>
and ensign, two surgeons, an attache of<br/>
the Foreign office, and two interpreters,<br/>
one French and the other a Cambodian.<br/>
The escort consisted of a sergeant and<br/>
private of marines, four sailors, and six<br/>
Annamite soldiers. The avowed object<br/>
of the expedition is to ascertain the<br/>
physical geography of the Mekong as<br/>
well as the history, philology and ethno-<br/>
graphy of the vast country refreshed by<br/>
its waters. The various names given to<br/>
this river have been the cause of much<br/>
error and confusion; thus not long since<br/>
Vincendon-Dumaulin described it as be-<br/>
ing an arm of the Meinam river of Siam,<br/>
while Bluteau, Berghaus, and Balbi declar-<br/>
ed the two to be perfectly distinct from<br/>
each other. It is considered as settled<br/>
now beyond all question that the great<br/>
river Mekong has its source in the moun-<br/>
tains of Thibet, a very important fact.<br/>
If this be so, these mountains give birth<br/>
to the Caou-kiang, Yang-tse-Kiang, and<br/>
Hoang-Ho, which fall into the China<br/>
Sea, to the Brahmapoutra, Ganges, and<br/>
the Indus which pass, by the Himalayas,<br/>
into the Indian Sea, and lastly, by a<br/>
third outlet not yet well defined, to the<br/>
Mekong, the Meinam, and the Irawaddy<br/>
which fall into the Indo-Chinese Sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lower part of the river, that which<br/>
waters Cambodia, is pretty well known;<br/>
the hydrography of the river of Noong,<br/>
which connects the principal stream with<br/>
the Lake of Angcor, has been completed<br/>
and the course of the Mekong has been<br/>
explored as far as the rapids of Sambor,<br/>
in latitude 12° and 13°. Here then com-<br/>
mence the labours of the expedition in<br/>
question. One of the great practical<br/>
points to be decided is whether these<br/>
rapids are always impracticable or only<br/>
during a certain portion of the year, and<br/>
consequently if transhipment be neces-<br/>
sary during a part or the whole of the<br/>
year. It is believed, though not known<br/>
for certain, that only one arm of the<br/>
river at Khong is affected by the rapids,<br/>
and that the other is open to navigation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Above this point all that is known posit-<br/>
ively is from the observations of M.<br/>
Mouhot, who lost his life there in the<br/>
autumn of 1861, and his discoveries re-<br/>
main incomplete. He described the Me-<br/>
kong, in the Laos between 19° and<br/>
20° latitude, as being more by high<br/>
mountains covered with rich verdure; he<br/>
declares absolutely that there is no con-<br/>
nection whatever between the Mekong<br/>
and the Meinam, but his exploration on-<br/>
ly extended to Luang-Prabaag, one of<br/>
the principal towns in the kingdom of<br/>
Laos, and containing from 7,800 to 8,000<br/>
inhabitants, and not 80,000 inhabitants,<br/>
as stated by Pallegoix. Below Laos<br/>
the Mekong penetrates the vast and<br/>
populous Chinese province of Yun-nam,<br/>
where it takes the name of the Lau-tsen-<br/>
kiang, which is applied to all its upper<br/>
portion. It is there separated by a small<br/>
distance only from the celebrated Yang-<br/>
tse-kiang, and from the Lo-kiang which<br/>
forms the boundary of the Birman em-<br/>
pire, of Tenasserim and Siam, and falls<br/>
into the gulf of Martaban at the English<br/>
port of Maulmein near Rangoon. The<br/>
proximity of the Mekong to the Yang-<br/>
tse-kiang (called in Yun-nam the<br/>
Kincha-kiang) if a fact is an extremely<br/>
important one, as the latter river serves<br/>
the three great towns of Hankow, Nank-<br/>
ing, and Shanghai.—Lon. & C. Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Atlantic Cables.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The contents of a lady's thimble would<br/>
hardly be expected to constitute a very<br/>
powerful instrument. They would scarcely<br/>
have been thought capable of one of the<br/>
most astonishing feats ever performed by<br/>
science. The chairman, however, of the<br/>
Atlantic Telegraph Company informs us<br/>
that this little instrument has actually<br/>
achieved such a feat. By way of experi-<br/>
ment, the engineers of the company joined<br/>
the extremities of the two cables which<br/>
now stretch across the Atlantic, thus for-<br/>
ming an immense loop-line of 3,700 miles.<br/>
He then put some acid in a lady's silver<br/>
thimble with bits of zine and copper, and<br/>
by this simple agency he succeeded in pas-<br/>
sing signals through the whole length in<br/>
little more than a second of time. A few<br/>
years ago how incredible such a statement<br/>
would have sounded! It seems, indeed,<br/>
that the simplicity of the fact has taken<br/>
even electricians by surprise. When a<br/>
cable was first laid across the whole breadth<br/>
of the Atlantic it was anticipated that an<br/>
unusually high power would be requisite<br/>
to drive the current in sufficient force<br/>
through such a length. In the first in-<br/>
stance, therefore, they used a battery with<br/>
50 cells, and afterwards employed 300 cells.<br/>
But this extraordinary power only injured<br/>
the cable, and the company are now work-<br/>
ing between Valentia and Heart's Content<br/>
with a battery of only 20 cells. It is, in<br/>
fact, remarkable how greatly the success<br/>
of the present year has dissipated the sup-<br/>
posed difficulties of distant or deep-sea<br/>
telegraph. So long as a cable broken was<br/>
a cable lost, it could not but appear a most<br/>
heavy loss speculation to venture half a<br/>
million upon that continuity of a rope<br/>
2,000 miles long. This element of hazard is<br/>
now almost wholly removed. It was no<br/>
mere chance by which the 1865 cable was<br/>
recovered. The success was accomplished<br/>
by a month’s steady work, according to<br/>
well-understood principles, and the same<br/>
method may at any time be repeated. For<br/>
the future, therefore, it will be a matter of<br/>
plain business, not of speculation, to lay<br/>
deep-sea cables. The distance and the<br/>
extent of submersion create no difficulties<br/>
at all. On the contrary, they seem rather<br/>
to have a favourable effect than otherwise.<br/>
The new cable has steadily improved since<br/>
it has been laid down, and the old cable is<br/>
better than the new. Up to the present<br/>
time the cables have been working under<br/>
great disadvantages. The breakdown of<br/>
the land lines on the American side has<br/>
seriously checked the dispatch of messages,<br/>
and, moreover, by refusing to send any<br/>
messages for a less sum than £20 the com-<br/>
pany have greatly restricted their business.<br/>
Nevertheless, under all these disadvan-<br/>
tages, the receipts have amounted on an<br/>
average to nearly £1,000 a day. On one<br/>
day they reached £2,000. Two very long<br/>
messages were sent, and it is curious to<br/>
learn that one was the speech of the King<br/>
of Prussia, the other the account of some<br/>
sporting match. The speech made by<br/>
Prince Gortschakoff, at the banquet given<br/>
to the American naval officers was tele-<br/>
graphed to the NEW YORK HERALD at<br/>
cost of £1,400. An arrangement has been<br/>
made by which the telegraphic news from<br/>
Europe over the Atlantic Cable is furnish-<br/>
ed to the American newspapers at the rate<br/>
of $100 a week for each journal desiring<br/>
it. Some twenty papers have thus far<br/>
entered into the agreement, and about 100<br/>
words a day will be transmitted, including<br/>
the commercial reports. This has made<br/>
necessary an advance in the charge for<br/>
advertising in many offices, about 25 per<br/>
cent, having been added to the former<br/>
rate.—LONDON & CHINA EXPRESS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Real Trouble.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Putting together the many conflicting<br/>
reports that fill our exchanges, and glean-<br/>
ing all we have been able from private<br/>
parties, we are satisfied that the real state<br/>
of affairs at the South is about this :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The majority of the people are dis-<br/>
posed to accept the situation quietly and<br/>
resignedly. They must have time, it is<br/>
true, for the feverish feelings that the<br/>
war engendered to cool down. A certain<br/>
suavity and cordiality toward the Yankees<br/>
can hardly be expected just yet. But an<br/>
unrestrained expression of opinion would<br/>
doubtless develop a purpose to make the<br/>
best of the new state of things, and to<br/>
get along amicably with the Freedmen.<br/>
Secessionists they are yet, but with no<br/>
hope for the “lost cause.” If this were<br/>
all, the task of reconstruction would be<br/>
more one of time than difficulty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is not all. In every State there<br/>
is a dominant minority who overawe and<br/>
override this peaceable majority. Men<br/>
ruined by the war, in property, or char-<br/>
acter, or both ; men who fell into a guer-<br/>
rilla life a great deal more readily than<br/>
they fall out ; men of the passionate,<br/>
lawless natures that slavery was so well<br/>
calculated to nurse, compose this factious<br/>
element. They may be but a few in a<br/>
parish or a county, but in most sections<br/>
they rule, and with a high hand. It is<br/>
they who shoot the Bureau officers, mob<br/>
the colored schools, persecute Unionists,<br/>
and make so many places too “hot” for<br/>
Northern men. They hold a rod of ter-<br/>
ror over peaceable citizens. The weal-<br/>
thiest and most influential of the latter<br/>
dare not set themselves against them. No<br/>
one will act as Sheriff to arrest, as wit-<br/>
ness to identify, as jury to convict, or<br/>
judge to sentence them for their outrages.<br/>
It would be at a risk of property or life<br/>
that few men care to take.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is the existence of this troublesome<br/>
element that makes the necessity for the<br/>
Freedmen’s Bureau and a standing army,<br/>
and that justifies the Republican opposi-<br/>
tion to President Johnson’s plans of pre-<br/>
cipitate reconstruction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have no doubt of the fact as we<br/>
have represented it. We wish we could<br/>
be as sure of the right remedy for the<br/>
evil.-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
No Silent Partners.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A minister in Brooklyn was recently<br/>
called upon by a business man, who said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I come, sir, to inquire if Jesus Christ<br/>
will take me into the concern as a silent<br/>
partner?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Why do you ask?” said the minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Because I wish to be a member of<br/>
the firm, and do not want anybody to<br/>
know it,” said the man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The reply was, “Christ takes no silent<br/>
partners! The firm must be ‘Jesus<br/>
Christ & Co.,’ and the names of the ‘Co.,’<br/>
though they may occupy a subordinate<br/>
place, must all be written out on the<br/>
sign-board.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reader, are you trying to be a secret<br/>
Christian? Jesus Christ takes no silent<br/>
partners!—THE CONGREGATIONALIST.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Diogenes being once asked the bite of<br/>
which beast was the worst, answered,<br/>
“If you mean of wild beasts, ‘tis the<br/>
slanderer, if tame, the flatterer.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
December 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Royal Criticisms.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have quite recently received a<br/>
paper from the king's chief scribe cr-<br/>
iticising severely, in his master's name<br/>
our use of Pali words such as the pri-<br/>
ests of the temples employ. He af-<br/>
firms that our writings are full of<br/>
words such as a hundred Siamese of<br/>
whatever classes, aside from the priest-<br/>
hood, speaking from morning till<br/>
evening would not once use. As ex-<br/>
amples he instances the words haang<br/>
Pra-ung of a sign of the possessive<br/>
case, and the word or rather phrase<br/>
Ahpai in the sense of beg pardon.<br/>
He says these words which neither<br/>
man nor woman of a company of 100<br/>
persons outside of the priesthood<br/>
would employ once in talking all day,<br/>
we are continually lugging into our<br/>
Siamese compositions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now in reply we beg to say, that<br/>
our teachers have generally been from<br/>
among the best educated of the Siam-<br/>
ese-—educated at the Temples—the<br/>
highest seminaries which the kingdom<br/>
of Siam enjoys. Some of them have<br/>
had as good a knowledge, we think,<br/>
of the Pali even, as our critic himself<br/>
and certainly of the Siamese not un-<br/>
equal. Some of them have been even<br/>
honored by having conferred on them<br/>
the literary degree of-—Parcan[?]. Was<br/>
it unwise, then, for us to confide in<br/>
such teachers as to the best use of the<br/>
words we found in Siamese book—-for<br/>
example the Records of the kings of<br/>
Siam? In speaking to us, they some-<br/>
times employed such words as our<br/>
critic now condemns as being obso-<br/>
lete. They have used these words<br/>
frequently in the books they have<br/>
written for us. We see the same<br/>
words used in Siamese books that<br/>
have been generally acknowledged to<br/>
be written in good Siamese. We know<br/>
without a doubt that the common peo-<br/>
ple are at no loss to understand them,<br/>
and we have thought it well, as the<br/>
pure Siamese language is quite mea-<br/>
gre, to exert our influence by the<br/>
press and every other laudable means<br/>
to amplify it, and hence have used<br/>
such words, we confess, more freely,<br/>
than we have heard them spoken or<br/>
seen them employed in Siamese books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our critic next inquires, why, in<br/>
reporting the king's visits to the tem-<br/>
ples, as we did three weeks since, we<br/>
followed the old obsolete language of<br/>
the priests in giving the names of the<br/>
temples, and not the common names by<br/>
which the people speak of them? Our<br/>
answer is, that we took the names just<br/>
as the king's chief scribe dictated<br/>
them to us for the article we wrote,<br/>
thinking that that style would be con-<br/>
sidered the most appropriate in report-<br/>
ing these pompous visits of the king.<br/>
And for a similar reason we frequently<br/>
employ the phrase His Majesty in-<br/>
stead of the common one,—-the king<br/>
Our critic asks, who among all the in-<br/>
habitants of this city ever speak of<br/>
the royal temples by those old obso-<br/>
lete names? So might he as well cri-<br/>
ticize our frequent use of the phrase<br/>
His Majesty for the people scarcely<br/>
never use the term in Siamese. Why<br/>
does he not ridicule our Siamese arti-<br/>
cles in which the phrase Pra-bat<br/>
Somdetsh Pra chaoem klow now and<br/>
then occurs? Who of the people or<br/>
princes or Lords ever use it in com-<br/>
mon conversation? Who is ever heard<br/>
to speak of a royal procession by the<br/>
terms P'a yuhd bat tra? Do not<br/>
the people always employ the simple<br/>
word Sadet pei Sadet ma—the king<br/>
goes and the king comes? Why then<br/>
does our critic in his paper to us on<br/>
this subject employ such pompous<br/>
words? Simply because it was the<br/>
book language from time immemorial,<br/>
and for the same reason we have used<br/>
those high flown names for the tem-<br/>
ples. It is very true they are not<br/>
colloquial names, but it is equally true<br/>
that they are such names as we find<br/>
in the standard books of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The truth is the papers of our cri-<br/>
tic and his master are full of words<br/>
which are not commonly used by the<br/>
people. And is it right that we should<br/>
be ridiculed for a similar freedom—<br/>
saying that we are forever raking up<br/>
obsolete words which only men who<br/>
died 70 and 80 years ago employed?<br/>
Our critic does not deny that such<br/>
names as we have employed were us-<br/>
ed freely by the last generation. But<br/>
he says that the king does not now<br/>
use them in any of his messages or<br/>
edicts. We suspect that this is a piece<br/>
of the same singular ambition which<br/>
the king has to distinguish himself by<br/>
coining and rejecting words and phra-<br/>
se according to his own notions, and<br/>
thus endeavoring to create a modern<br/>
style that shall distinguish his reign<br/>
above all that have preceded it. We<br/>
will frankly confess that we have been<br/>
pleased with parts of this his literary<br/>
reformation, but must protest that if<br/>
he means to carry it so far as to make<br/>
a host of the book words of the last<br/>
generation obsolete, and radically<br/>
change the style of writing, that our<br/>
sympathies cannot follow him. The<br/>
truth is the Siamese language is en-<br/>
larged and enriched by that class of<br/>
words which our critic would seem<br/>
now to wish to have cast over board,<br/>
as the English language is amplified<br/>
and improved by her many words of<br/>
Latin derivation. What would be<br/>
thought of an English monarch who<br/>
should arise and attempt to reject<br/>
thousands of English words that were<br/>
used in the last generation, and es-<br/>
pecially such as are of Latin and<br/>
Greek origin?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will be recollected by some of<br/>
our readers that but little more than<br/>
a year ago, this same critic overhaul-<br/>
ed us repeatedly for not Romanizing<br/>
proper words in the Pali according<br/>
as they were originally spoken, or as<br/>
the most learned Pali scholars speak<br/>
them now. And to this day he does not<br/>
cease a ch. criticisms continually reite-<br/>
rating that the people and nearly all<br/>
the priests are universally ignorant,<br/>
and do not know how to speak Pali,<br/>
but that we ought to avail ourselves<br/>
of the very best Pali scholars that can<br/>
be found to direct us aright, and to<br/>
spell all Pali words, especially Pali<br/>
proper names, so that good Pali schol-<br/>
ars in India and Europe will see that<br/>
we and our teachers are not ignora-<br/>
muses in the Pali language. Our rea-<br/>
ders can find a fair sample of that<br/>
system as understood and loved by the<br/>
king in the catalogue of the names of<br/>
His Majesty's children as published in<br/>
the Bangkok Calendar for 1865 or 6.<br/>
Why, we would beg leave to ask our<br/>
critic, among all the princes, or no-<br/>
bles, or lords, or people ever speak<br/>
any of those names as indicated by<br/>
that orthography? Why then is it<br/>
insisted upon and the names of the<br/>
princes and princesses be made such<br/>
as no European can utter?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Siamese Ox Cart
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A native ox cart is a very singular<br/>
piece of mechanism—-so odd and<br/>
primeval in its style as to claim a de-<br/>
scription from some pen. And as no one<br/>
else appears to have attempted it, we<br/>
propose now to try our pen at it. We<br/>
regard it as a very difficult work-—so<br/>
much so that for many years we have<br/>
looked upon the instrument and wish-<br/>
ed to describe it to our friends abroad,<br/>
but have not felt able to do so until<br/>
now. If we are successful we may<br/>
perhaps flatter ourselves that we are<br/>
growing stronger rather than weaker<br/>
as years multiply upon us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese ox cart is only about<br/>
half the size of the buffalo cart, and<br/>
yet it is enormously heavy for the<br/>
little creatures that have to draw it.<br/>
The wheels are about four feet in<br/>
diameter—-made of iron-wood, and<br/>
yet with large hubs, spokes, and fellies.<br/>
The hubs are 30 inches long and 8<br/>
inches in diameter where the spokes<br/>
enter them, They are rather neatly<br/>
turned with tasty mouldings. There<br/>
are no iron boxes in them or bands<br/>
about them. The hole for the axle-<br/>
tree is but an inch and a half, or two in-<br/>
ches in diameter, and of equal size at<br/>
both ends of the hubs. The spokes are<br/>
thickly set and rather neatly wrought,<br/>
but very heavy. They are trammelled in-<br/>
to the fellies by a dove tailed mortice,<br/>
and kept in their places by wooden<br/>
wedges driven from without inward<br/>
towards the hub in a part of the mor-<br/>
tices left open designedly for them, so<br/>
that they keep the dove tailed tenons<br/>
in the dove tailed part of the mortices.<br/>
There is nothing to keep the wedges<br/>
in but the rolling of the wheels upon<br/>
their heads. No kind of tire is ever<br/>
used, and not a particle of iron or<br/>
steel about them-—You will see the<br/>
fellies of an old cart wheel worn quite<br/>
sharp, which an iron tire would have<br/>
prevented. You will see all the tenons<br/>
with their wedges directly on the<br/>
superfices of the fellies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The axletree is simply a little round<br/>
rod of hard timber an inch and a half<br/>
in diameter, of the same size from end<br/>
to end. Often times it is only a small<br/>
bamboo rod. The wheels revolve<br/>
on this, which is connected with the<br/>
frame above it and kept from turning<br/>
by the primeval means of withes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The base of the cart box which sits<br/>
upon the axletree is a frame of hard<br/>
wood two by three inches in size and<br/>
six feet long and five feet wide. Into<br/>
each side of this frame, about midway,<br/>
the two ends of the axletree pass by<br/>
a hole of the same size as that through<br/>
the hubs. The outer ends of the hubs<br/>
come into quite close contact with the<br/>
sides of this frame, and by them the<br/>
wheels are kept from running off from<br/>
the axletree, and this supersedes the<br/>
necessity of linchpins. The four<br/>
corners of this frame are neatly framed<br/>
and kept together, not by pins as is<br/>
usual in frame-work, nor by wedges<br/>
or nails, but by withes which can<br/>
readily be untwisted and the frame<br/>
taken to pieces whenever circumstances<br/>
may require it
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cart box is built directly over<br/>
the two arms of the tongue and but<br/>
a little wider or longer than those<br/>
arms; Consequently it is much nar-<br/>
rower in front than in the rear—the<br/>
hinder part being about 2½ feet wide,<br/>
and the fore part less than one foot.<br/>
The frame work of the box is of hard<br/>
wood framed into posts two feet high<br/>
and kept together by withes. The<br/>
walls and floor of the cart box are<br/>
made of bamboo slats, and when grain<br/>
is hauled by the carts, matting is<br/>
spread all about on the inside of the box.<br/>
The box is strengthened by wooden<br/>
braces passing from each corner to<br/>
the four corners of the general frame<br/>
which embraces the wheels, and these<br/>
braces, like all other parts of the cart,<br/>
are confined in their places by means<br/>
of withes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hence it may be truly said that<br/>
there is not a wooden pin or nail or<br/>
iron band in the whole concern. The<br/>
instrument used for yoking oxen to<br/>
the carts is simply a round stick<br/>
four feet in length, and fixed to the<br/>
tongue of the cart by withes or cords.<br/>
In the place of bows, ropes are employ-<br/>
ed, which pass through auger holes<br/>
in the round stick as bows do in a<br/>
European ox-yoke, or are tied to pins<br/>
which occupy the places of the bow-<br/>
holes, extending two or three inches<br/>
above and six or eight below the yoke.<br/>
When the cattle are unyoked you will<br/>
always see the yoke fixed to the<br/>
tongue, and the tongue resting on a<br/>
crotch of wood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These carts being heavy, and hav-<br/>
ing nothing but wood in the places<br/>
where all the friction comes, are very<br/>
unwieldy things, especially for the<br/>
small oxen which are yoked to them.<br/>
These creatures will not, on average,<br/>
weigh more than 4 or 500 lbs. and<br/>
are able to haul by these carts only<br/>
about the same weight of goods. As<br/>
there is no place for the use of tar or<br/>
grease to relieve the friction, they<br/>
almost always make a great groaning<br/>
as they roll along.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Buffalo-carts, as before intimated,<br/>
are as much heavier than ox-carts as<br/>
buffaloes are heavier than oxen. They<br/>
are always made after the same fa-<br/>
shion, and a smart yoke of buffaloes<br/>
can usually haul about eight or nine<br/>
hundred weight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The oxen yoked to these carts are<br/>
always driven by means of reins fasted<br/>
to loops in the nostrils of the cattle,<br/>
and the driver always sits on the cart<br/>
holding the reins with his left hand,<br/>
and an ox-goad in his right.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shan Land of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ITS HISTORY, GEOGRAPHY, LITERA-
TURE, AND RELIGION.
CHAPTER I.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam or Shan Land has, like all<br/>
other countries, become exceedingly<br/>
modified by emigration, revolution,<br/>
and varied policy. Almost within the<br/>
age of the old men, of the present<br/>
day, the present capital of the coun-<br/>
try, was a wilderness, with gardeners<br/>
scatte[r]ed here and there, seeking a<br/>
quiet livelihood, and during the pre-<br/>
sent generation, the villages, on the<br/>
coast of Siam, have become entirely<br/>
modified and greatly enlarged. Siam<br/>
is a growing country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The original stock of Siam, came<br/>
out from the Laos or Shans, as the<br/>
Burmans call them; rallying from<br/>
Cheangmai and vicinity. To this<br/>
day, the language is identical modified<br/>
only, by such incidental effects, as<br/>
adopting a different alphabet, and<br/>
surrounded by different influences<br/>
would naturally induce. Cheangmai<br/>
identifies itself with Siam, and pro-<br/>
perly so. They may well esteem it<br/>
the country of which they themselves<br/>
are parent, though as often happens,<br/>
the child has out-striped the mother<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The original Shans or Laoa live in<br/>
up-land country, seeking their living<br/>
by agriculture, and the mechanic arts.<br/>
That branch of them, which wander-<br/>
ed away to the coasts and rivers of<br/>
Siam, took a modified type, and be-<br/>
came more commercial, in their cha-<br/>
racter. Yet they have been more mo-<br/>
dified by revolution and inter-marri-<br/>
ages with other nations, than by a<br/>
location communicating readily with<br/>
the sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last Barman war with Siam<br/>
laid waste the old capital at Ayuthia,<br/>
and sent the people terror stricken and<br/>
homeless seeking an asylum in dens<br/>
and caves and trackless forests—broke<br/>
up old Siam almost entirely, except<br/>
in its religion, and when it started<br/>
again, it was with a new policy and<br/>
new laws.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The honor of bringing order out of<br/>
chaos belongs to P'UYA TAK, a Siamo-<br/>
Chinese, who gradually collected a<br/>
band of braves, in the western part of<br/>
Siam, and came along as he could, ap-<br/>
pearing on the coast at Bangplassoi,<br/>
and from thence, after varied daring<br/>
deeds, he made a stand at Bangkok,<br/>
at what is now called the old fort. On<br/>
the western shore of the river, nearly<br/>
opposite the present royal palace P'UYA<br/>
TAK ruled the country as a sort of<br/>
Cromwell. But he was considered a<br/>
usurper. After a few years, e'er he<br/>
was permitted to establish a decided<br/>
policy, and make customs and usages<br/>
permanent, an old general of his, a<br/>
Siamese, trained in war to daring<br/>
deeds, of royal lineage and pleasing to<br/>
the Siamese because of their own<br/>
blood, was placed upon the throne of<br/>
Siam, and hailed as the great king of<br/>
Siam, and its dependencies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This king has left many proofs, that<br/>
he was a man of great efficiency, and<br/>
justly popular among all his people.<br/>
He was the first of the present dinas-<br/>
ty, and bore the title of P'UYA P'UTTI<br/>
YAWT FA. He made the laws by<br/>
which Siam is now governed. The<br/>
Siamese, respect him as a wonder of<br/>
efficiency, who trained all the people<br/>
to mighty works and deeds. As a<br/>
man said to me the other day, while<br/>
inquiring about him, now when the<br/>
king orders out a thousand men, one<br/>
hundred do the work and nine hun-<br/>
dred look on; but when P'UYA P'UTTI<br/>
YAWT FA called out a thousand men,<br/>
a thousand men worked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P'RA P'UTTI YAWT FA founded the<br/>
city of Bangkok. He built the pa-<br/>
laces on the east side of the river. He<br/>
surrounded the city by a wall, built<br/>
the fort at the mouth of the river, dug<br/>
numerous canals. Indeed he was a very<br/>
wonderful man, if we may credit Sia-<br/>
mese annals. In his day the Siamese<br/>
were a brave, efficient, industrious,<br/>
working people. The king applied<br/>
himself to the real progress of the<br/>
country, and stimulated the people, to<br/>
do works of a permanent character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P'ra P'utti Lert La, his own son,<br/>
did not emulate the father in this res-<br/>
pect. His object was to amuse, rath-<br/>
er than develop the people, and the<br/>
resources of the country. He gave<br/>
himself to glorify the customs, that<br/>
had been handed down with the<br/>
Buddhist religion. Holidays were<br/>
his delight, and to make a show on<br/>
those occasions, to delight and fascinate<br/>
the people, the joy of his heart. Of<br/>
course he had many wives, and lived<br/>
for pleasure rather than usefulness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His first son, that came to the throne,<br/>
the predecessor of the present Siamese<br/>
king, seemed to make it the end of<br/>
his life to exalt Buddhism, and shut-<br/>
ting his ears to all that was told him<br/>
of western nations, insisted that Siam<br/>
was the great nation of the earth, and<br/>
the Siamese the great people. The<br/>
most bombastic style was assumed in<br/>
all state documents, and he seemed to<br/>
think that Siam was well enough as it<br/>
was. For all things foreign he had<br/>
but one phrase, "away with them, away<br/>
with them".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He made himself the god of the<br/>
people. Living himself, in his heaven<br/>
of three hundred wives, he seemed to<br/>
make all believe, that all things were<br/>
made for his use, and that all the use<br/>
of the common people was to serve<br/>
the king, and fear before him. And<br/>
certainly he had one quality of a great<br/>
man. He could use a great many<br/>
people, and consume a great deal of<br/>
worldly goods. But all was to little<br/>
purpose, if we may except those ques-<br/>
tionable good deeds, in building many<br/>
large "Wats" which made a home for<br/>
a large number of men, to laze away<br/>
a life of celibacy, while the king<br/>
could surrounded himself with the<br/>
wives, they ought to have had, to raise<br/>
up children to the nation, making<br/>
strong vigorous people, based on the<br/>
principles of Him, who instituted all<br/>
things.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When this king sat upon the throne,<br/>
every thing seemed stereotyped. There<br/>
was no such thing as making an in-<br/>
road upon established customs. The<br/>
great centre was Bangkok. The king<br/>
was the end and aim of all thought<br/>
and effort. All the kingdom, com-<br/>
pared with the city of the great king,<br/>
was as nothing. Taxes came to the<br/>
capital to be there disbursed or con-<br/>
sumed; but consumed there to a very<br/>
great extent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When customs become fixed, we do<br/>
not expect them to be overturned in a<br/>
day. As great an advance has been<br/>
made during the present reign as<br/>
could possibly have been expected.<br/>
The morning light is breaking. The<br/>
king has welcomed and recognized as<br/>
pre-eminent the arts of the west. He<br/>
feels and acknowledges, that Siam is<br/>
but a small kingdom among the na-<br/>
tions. What we now want is to make<br/>
Siam a strong learned people. If P'ra<br/>
P'utü Yawt P'a, when he called forth<br/>
a thousand men, found in them a<br/>
thousand workers, this thing can be<br/>
done again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese are susceptible of high<br/>
inspiration. They respect their rulers.<br/>
When there comes forth from the<br/>
throne energy and might-—a will to<br/>
devise liberal things, and a heart to<br/>
carry them out, the nation loves to<br/>
rally around the royal standard, and<br/>
asks to be led on to brave and noble<br/>
deeds. Let the king patronize a<br/>
sound religion, and deep learning, and<br/>
the whole country, with ears open and<br/>
heart aroused, will listen, believe, and<br/>
awake to the real end of their being<br/>
and the proper objects of effort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is needed in Siam is to grasp<br/>
the country as a whole, make the<br/>
kingdom a great family of equal rights<br/>
—-equal protection—-equal love—-and<br/>
welcome assimilation in all its borders.<br/>
Let the Shans of the north have the<br/>
fostering care of a daughter strong<br/>
and able to protect. Let the Karens<br/>
wandering upon the mountains, have<br/>
inducements to make for themselves<br/>
a home, and be assured of a father’s<br/>
care, and the people already assim-<br/>
ilated by contiguity and the most in-<br/>
timate relationships together devise<br/>
liberal things, to make the country<br/>
every where distinguished for good<br/>
laws, good protection and hearty pro-<br/>
gressive policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A mission among the Shans is most<br/>
opportune. Perhaps this people may<br/>
become the leavening element that<br/>
shall make Siam a christian nation.<br/>
It being a border province between<br/>
Siam and Burmah, the religion that<br/>
has already been freely received in the<br/>
sister kingdom, may thus come to us,<br/>
in Shan land, who seem as yet to be<br/>
sitting in the valley and shadow of<br/>
death, in our religious surroundings,<br/>
though the gospel has been freely<br/>
preached in all those regions border-<br/>
ing on the sea. God speed the mission-<br/>
ary that now goes forth from Siam,<br/>
and may he find a brother’s fellow-<br/>
ship from the missionary of Burmah,<br/>
who has already found willing hearers<br/>
among this people, and the time come<br/>
in our day when the same God shall<br/>
be adored through these eastern coun-<br/>
tries, and the true basis of progress be<br/>
every where established.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwioh Islands No. 8.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government of the Sandwich<br/>
Islands up to the time of the conver-<br/>
tion of the principal chiefs, sometime<br/>
before the year 1830, was a despotism<br/>
of the worst kind. "The will of the<br/>
king was law, his power absolute; and<br/>
this was true of the chiefs also, in<br/>
their separate spheres, so far as the<br/>
common people were concerned. All<br/>
right of property, in the lastresort, was<br/>
with the king." But from an early<br/>
period in the mission, a happy change<br/>
began to appear in the government, and<br/>
steadily increased until the 7th of<br/>
June 1837, when the monarch signed<br/>
the following Bill of Rights.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"God has made of one blood all na-<br/>
tions of men, to dwell on the face of<br/>
the earth with unity and blessedness.<br/>
God has also bestowed certain rights<br/>
alike on all men, and all chiefs, and<br/>
all people, of all lands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"These are some of the rights which<br/>
he has given alike to every man, and<br/>
every chief, namely, life, limb, liber-<br/>
ty, the labor of his hands, and the pro-<br/>
duction of his mind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"God has also established govern-<br/>
ments and rulers for the purpose of<br/>
of peace; but, in making laws for a<br/>
nation, it is by no means proper to<br/>
enact laws for the protection of rulers<br/>
only, without also providing protec-<br/>
tion for their subjects; neither is it<br/>
proper to enact laws to enrich the<br/>
chiefs only, and hereafter there shall<br/>
by no means be any law enacted<br/>
which is inconsistent with what is<br/>
above expressed; neither shall any<br/>
tax be assessed, nor any service of<br/>
labor required of any man, in any<br/>
manner at variance with the above<br/>
sentiments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"These sentiments are hereby pro-<br/>
claimed for the purpose of protecting<br/>
all alike, both the people and the<br/>
chiefs of all these islands, that no<br/>
chief may be able to oppress any sub-<br/>
ject, but that the chiefs and the peo-<br/>
ple may enjoy the same protection<br/>
under the same law."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Protection is hereby secured to<br/>
the persons of all the people, together<br/>
with their lands, their building lots<br/>
and all their property; and nothing<br/>
whatever shall be taken from any in-<br/>
dividual except by express provision<br/>
of the laws. Whatever chief shall<br/>
perseveringly act in violation of this<br/>
Constitution, shall no longer remain<br/>
a chief of the Sandwich Islands; and<br/>
the same shall be true of the govern-<br/>
ors, officers, and all law agents."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a glorious bound was that<br/>
from the ancient despotism of the<br/>
Islands! It appears that king Kame-<br/>
hameha IV then the reigning monarch,<br/>
having a full understanding of the<br/>
import of this magna charta, and a<br/>
strong conviction that it would re-<br/>
dound to the good of his people, and<br/>
a pure desire that the welfare and<br/>
happiness of his subjects might be<br/>
enhanced by it, cheerfully signed it,<br/>
thus surrendering most voluntarily all<br/>
further arbitrary power, which rulers<br/>
all naturally love, for the best good of<br/>
his kingdom. There was nothing<br/>
like "an intervention of armed nations<br/>
and their retainers" to make him will-<br/>
ing to do that sublime deed. It would<br/>
be difficult to find in the acts of any<br/>
of the kings which Europe has ever<br/>
had, a deed so truly noble, one ex-ec-<br/>
uted with so pure a desire for the good<br/>
of the subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next grand step in that up-<br/>
ward march was to frame a constitu-<br/>
tion and confer it on the people.<br/>
This was done on the 8th of Oct. 1840.<br/>
The constitution recognizes "the three<br/>
grand divisions of a civilized mon-<br/>
archy, king, legislature, and judges,<br/>
and defining, in some respects, the<br/>
duties of each." It is interesting to<br/>
notice in that constitution the follow-<br/>
ing clause viz: "no law shall be enact-<br/>
ed which is at variance with the word<br/>
of the Lord Jehovah, or with the gen-<br/>
eral spirit of his word," and that all<br/>
laws of the Islands shall be in consis-<br/>
tency with the general spirit of God's<br/>
law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the laws framed in<br/>
accordance with this spirit were es-<br/>
pecially severe upon the vices of in-<br/>
temperance and licentiousness and<br/>
were remarkably successful in driving<br/>
them into concealment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the great reformation progress-<br/>
ed, and the relations of government<br/>
multiplied, it felt its need of the ser-<br/>
vices of a man who had received a<br/>
thorough legal education. Hence Mr.<br/>
John Ricord an American lawyer was<br/>
called to sustain the relation of legal<br/>
adviser to the government as At-<br/>
torney General. In June 1845 Mr.<br/>
Ricord, was requested by government<br/>
to make a digest of the existing laws<br/>
of the Islands, with such improve-<br/>
ments as it was wrought the circum-<br/>
stances of the people required. The work<br/>
was promptly and well done, and that<br/>
code was adopted April 27th 1846 by<br/>
the legislative council assembled. The<br/>
following are some of the statutes con-<br/>
cerning religious matters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. The religion of the Lord Jesus<br/>
Christ shall continue to be the esta-<br/>
blished national religion of the Haw-<br/>
aiian Islands. The laws of Kame-<br/>
hameha III, orally abolishing all idol<br/>
worship and ancient heathen customs,<br/>
are hereby continued in force, and<br/>
said worship and customs are forbid-<br/>
den.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. Although the Protestant religion
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This gentleman subsequently came to<br/>
Siam and offered himself to the Siamese<br/>
government in the capacity of legal coun-<br/>
selor. But the government did not then<br/>
feel its need of such service, and decli-ned<br/>
the application. M. R. then turned his<br/>
thoughts to the gold mines on the western<br/>
coast of the gulf and came near losing his<br/>
life in fruitless efforts at mining. He re-<br/>
turned to this city an invalid, having had<br/>
two strokes of paralysis. He left the<br/>
country, we think in 1867, and finally died<br/>
as we have been informed at the residence<br/>
of a distinguished uncle, a physician in<br/>
Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
in the religion of the government,<br/>
heretofore proclaimed, nothing in the<br/>
last preceeding section shall be con-<br/>
strued as requiring any particular form<br/>
of worship, neither is anything therein<br/>
contained to be construed as connec-<br/>
ting the ecclesiastical with the body<br/>
politic. All men residing in this king-<br/>
dom shall be allowed to worship the<br/>
God of the christian Bible, according<br/>
to the dictates of their consciences,<br/>
and this sacred privilege shall never<br/>
be infringed upon. * * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"3. It shall not be lawful to violate<br/>
the Christian Sabbath by the transac-<br/>
tion of worldly business. The Sab-<br/>
bath shall be considered no day in<br/>
law. All documents and other evi-<br/>
dences of worldly transactions dated<br/>
on the Sabbath shall be deemed to<br/>
have no date, and to be void for not<br/>
having legal existence. It shall not<br/>
on that day be lawful to entertain<br/>
any civil cause in the courts of this<br/>
kingdom. Every attempt to serve<br/>
civil process on that day, shall be<br/>
deemed a trespass by the officer at-<br/>
tempting, and shall subject such officer<br/>
to the private civil suit of the party<br/>
aggrieved. Provided however, that it<br/>
shall, in criminal, fraudulent, and tor-<br/>
tious cases be lawful to issue com-<br/>
pulsory process for the arrest of wrong<br/>
doers, and it shall without such pro-<br/>
cess, be lawful on that day for any<br/>
conservator of the public peace and<br/>
morality, to arrest, commit and detain<br/>
for examination a wrong-doer."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While the Sandwich Islands have<br/>
adopted the christian religion for the<br/>
national religion and the Protestant<br/>
form of it as the religion of the govern-<br/>
ment, the union is not that of Church<br/>
and State, inasmuch as no sect derives<br/>
its support from the government, and<br/>
all are free to worship the God of the<br/>
Bible as they please.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the government of<br/>
the Sandwich Islands is a limited mon-<br/>
archy quite similar to that of Great Bri-<br/>
tain. The crown was perpetually con-<br/>
fined to Kamehameha IV., and the<br/>
heirs of his body lawfully begotten and<br/>
to their lawful descendents in a direct<br/>
line. Next to him was His Royal<br/>
Highness, Prince Lot Kamehameha<br/>
now on the throne, and next their sister,<br/>
the Princess Victoria. In the failure<br/>
of all these, and of the king and House<br/>
of Nobles to designate and proclaim<br/>
some person during the king's life, a<br/>
successor to the throne is to be elected<br/>
by joint ballot of both Houses of the<br/>
legislature. To the King belongs the<br/>
executive power, and his person is in-<br/>
violable and sacred. His ministers are<br/>
responsible. Laws passed by both hou-<br/>
ses of the Legislature must be signed by<br/>
His Majesty, and also by the Kuhina<br/>
Nui, as the premier is called.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The House of Nobles is restricted<br/>
by the constitution to thirty members.<br/>
* * * The popular branch of the<br/>
legislature consists of twenty-seven<br/>
members who are chosen biennially by<br/>
the people, and the representation is<br/>
proportioned to the population. Less<br/>
than one fourth of the representatives<br/>
elected at the opening of the year 1864<br/>
were of foreign origin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The supreme Court has a chief jus-<br/>
tice and two associate justices. There<br/>
are also Circuit Courts, with judges<br/>
not to exceed three; and these two<br/>
classes of judges hold office during<br/>
good behavior. There are besides,<br/>
district judges, whose commissions<br/>
expire at the end of two years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The independence of the Hawai-<br/>
ian nation was formerly recognized by<br/>
England and France on the 28th of<br/>
November, 1843. Her independence<br/>
was acknowledged by the U. S. as<br/>
early as Dec. 20th 1842.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Hon. R. Marsham,<br/>
who arrived here from Singapore by<br/>
the last Chow Phya, left on the 5th<br/>
for Maulmain by the overland route<br/>
via Kankuroo. The object of this<br/>
tour has not been made public, but is<br/>
surmised to have some connection with<br/>
the Telegraph line or Railways.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A part of the company connected<br/>
with the Boundary survey between the<br/>
Tenasserim Provinces and Siam, arri-<br/>
ved from Singapore per Chow Phya<br/>
on the 26th ult. Lieut. Bragg, who<br/>
is at the head of the expedition, is ex-<br/>
pected to come by the next Steamer,<br/>
when the company will quickly leave<br/>
for their important work on the boun-<br/>
dary South of the latitude of Tavoy.<br/>
All north of that parallel, has, we think<br/>
been surveyed, and all South remains<br/>
to be done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king is reported to<br/>
have left town on the 5th inst. for a<br/>
trip to PRA PRATOM CHADES where he<br/>
and H. B. the Pra’klung are lavishing<br/>
their money on an immense pagoda in<br/>
honor of Buddi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have just now learned that His<br/>
Royal Highness Somdetah Chowfah<br/>
Chulalongkorn took a trip to Pe-cha-<br/>
buree on the 18th inst. in H. S. M. gun<br/>
boat Impregnable, for the purpose of<br/>
distributing priests robes at several<br/>
of the royal temples in that city, and<br/>
that he returned on the 20th ult. We<br/>
have been informed that His Royal<br/>
Highness is to come out of the manhood<br/>
some time in the course of the present<br/>
month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed that the<br/>
loss of the four large spars for the Pra-<br/>
mane in the gulf some weeks since<br/>
will not at all delay the funeral obse-<br/>
quies for the late second king, and<br/>
that it is intended to have the crema-<br/>
tion come off about the 20th of Feb-<br/>
ruary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEATHER—-Never could there be<br/>
more delightful weather than is now<br/>
enjoyed in this city and throughout<br/>
this entire kingdom. We are having<br/>
many more cold invigorating days<br/>
this year than we did last year at<br/>
this season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RICE—-It is now certain that the<br/>
new rice crop is past all further dan-<br/>
ger, and will be much more abund-<br/>
ant than the crop of last year. It ap-<br/>
pears from reports from Petchaburi<br/>
that there will be some failures of the<br/>
crop on the most elevated fields in<br/>
that vicinity from too little water in<br/>
the latter part of the rainy season, but<br/>
that the crop on all the lower grades<br/>
will be excellent. It is probable that<br/>
the higher fields in other quarters will<br/>
suffer somewhat from the same cause,<br/>
but inasmuch as such localities are<br/>
comparatively few, and as much more<br/>
rice has been planted this season than<br/>
ever before, the harvest will in all<br/>
probability be much greater than has<br/>
ever before been gathered in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LAGOOR.—-A Siamese friend of ours,<br/>
having recently returned from the<br/>
Province of Lagoor, whence he went<br/>
to purchase rice, reports that it is a<br/>
good rice country and a beautiful land<br/>
naturally, with splendid mountain<br/>
scenery; but that the people suffer<br/>
greatly from oppression and fraud by<br/>
their rulers and that they are con-<br/>
sequently miserably poor and wretched.<br/>
The mountains abound with<br/>
tin, and the mines are worked almost<br/>
entirely by a company of Chinese<br/>
from Hongkong. The people cannot<br/>
be prevailed upon to take the flat<br/>
coin from the royal treasury for more<br/>
than three quarters their true value.<br/>
Mexican dollars and rupees pass at<br/>
par.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REV. CAPT. BASKET preached the<br/>
second time in the Prot. Church last<br/>
sabbath day, from Matth. 11: 28th—-<br/>
"Come unto me al ye that labor and<br/>
are heavy laden and I will give you<br/>
rest". His discourse was "a feast of<br/>
fat things—-full of marrow—-of wines on<br/>
the lees well refined,"—-unto all his<br/>
hearers, certainly, to those who were at<br/>
all spiritually minded", wi a ever others<br/>
might have thought of it His dic-<br/>
tion was most chaste, his style of de-<br/>
livery, though with but little ges-<br/>
ticulation was quite agreeable. In a<br/>
word his preaching was what we<br/>
would term "to the tune of old<br/>
hundred."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry to learn that there<br/>
is much complaining among the trai-<br/>
ders in small boats coming in from all<br/>
parts of the country of unlawful exac-<br/>
tions of boat taxes by the farmer of<br/>
this monopoly. By a government<br/>
notification issued on the 14th of last<br/>
March all small boats as trade in the<br/>
river, from the inner provinces and<br/>
come and go without making trading<br/>
shops of themselves in the city, shall<br/>
be exempted from all taxation. The<br/>
law was put into force for a little<br/>
time, and such traders were happy in<br/>
the enjoyment of their privileges. But,<br/>
now, if the reports be true, the farmer<br/>
has found a loop hole in the new law<br/>
by which he has been evading it for<br/>
several months. It is this. If he finds<br/>
these traders moored at any place for<br/>
a day or a night, he accounts them as<br/>
belonging to the class of boats that<br/>
make trading shops of themselves in<br/>
the city, and exacts the usual taxes<br/>
for all such trading boats, which is a<br/>
salung (15 cts.) per cubit in length of<br/>
boat. We would beg the government<br/>
to look into this matter thoroughly,<br/>
for we fear there is great injustice be-<br/>
ing done the people by this farm as<br/>
well as many others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya left the<br/>
anchorage at 6. A. M on the 4th inst.<br/>
having the following passengers, Mes-<br/>
srs Virgin, Crum, Maclean, Kennedy,<br/>
Wood, & Mrs. Hewetson and child.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the readers of the
BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
My dear and indulgent readers—-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am commissioned by the ladies of<br/>
the Bangkok Bazar Association, and<br/>
instructed specially with many pleas-<br/>
ant Christmas greetings, to inform<br/>
you, that they intend, D. V. to hold<br/>
a Bazar on the 24th instant, at the<br/>
Protestant church, kindly placed at<br/>
their disposal, by our much esteemed<br/>
B. Consul T. G. Knox Esq. for the<br/>
purpose of disposing of a few fancy<br/>
articles, worked conjointly by the la-<br/>
dies here, for the aid and benefit of<br/>
the new Mission about to be opened<br/>
at Cheangmai. The hours will be<br/>
from 2 to 6 p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
—ACTING SECRETARY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">46</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">49</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">68</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Namasua</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">31</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Teel Seed</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12⅕</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">5⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Black Pepper</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO</td>
 <td>HIDES</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td>Black</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>"Deer  """</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">170</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">33</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">64</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD</td>
 <td>4@5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6@7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8@9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LOK KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plasit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—On Hong Kong 30 d. s. at<br/>
par. On Singapore 10 d. s. 3 p c. pre-<br/>
mium
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Freights.—The following charters have<br/>
been made since the 15th ulto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRUS. “Mathilde” 65 cents inside, 60<br/>
cents per pic. outside to Ningpo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIAM. “Kamarye” 8$ per ton teak to<br/>
Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HAM. “Albert” 45 cents per pic. in-<br/>
side to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HAM. “Edgar Ross” 45 cents per pic.<br/>
inside to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BRIT. “Omrad” 43 cents per pic. out-<br/>
side to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BRIT. “Evangeline” 40 cents inside 35<br/>
cents per pic. outside to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AMER. “D. Marcy” 30 cents inside 44<br/>
cents per pic. outside to Ningpo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed for<br/>
China since the 15th ulto
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Gold n Fleece” with 6390 pls. rice,<br/>
167 sapanwood, 67 hids., 415 teakwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“New York” with 7570 pls. rice, 118<br/>
sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Hera” with 9119 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Abbotsford” with 12, 391 pls. rice,<br/>
157 sapanwood, 425 pepper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Fezia” with 5720 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Cutty Sark” with 9500 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Lark” with 10, 464 pls. rice, 200 sa-<br/>
panwood, 23 horns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Albert” with 4930 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Edgar Ross” with 4900 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Lyemoon” with 10, 000 ps. rice
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Amazone” with 4300 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Batavia<br/>
with fish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Railway," "Brilliant," "Fling II ett<br/>
& Elise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singa-<br/>
pore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Chow Phya" with 4251 pls. rice 200<br/>
sugar 62 horns, 28 teelseed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mathilde" with 7000 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
CHLORIDE OR LIME FOR VARMIN.—A<br/>
correspondent of the builder says : "Four<br/>
years since I took an old country house<br/>
infested with rats, mice, and flies. I<br/>
stuffed every rat and mouse hole with the<br/>
chloride. I threw it on the quarry floors<br/>
of the dairy and cellars. I kept saucers<br/>
of it under the chests of drawers, or<br/>
some other convenient piece of furniture;<br/>
in every nursery, bedroom or drawing-<br/>
room. An ornamental glass vase held a<br/>
quantity at the foot of each staircase.<br/>
Stables, cow-sheds, pig-sties, all had<br/>
their dose, and the result was that I<br/>
thoroughly routed my enemies. Last<br/>
year was a great one for wasps; they<br/>
wouldn't face the chloride; though in the<br/>
dining-room, in which we had none—as<br/>
its smell, to me most refreshing and<br/>
wholesome, is not approved by all per-<br/>
sons—we had a perpetual warfare. And<br/>
all the comfort for eightpence !"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEEDS. The microscope reveals the<br/>
fact that every stem and twig as large as<br/>
a quill contains some ten thousand little<br/>
tubes, through which the water or sap is<br/>
constantly passing upward during growth,<br/>
to the leaves above, which spread it out<br/>
by means of their fine net-work, and give<br/>
it in the form of vapor to the air. With<br/>
ten weeds upon a square foot, an ex-<br/>
change estimates that the careless farmer<br/>
has forty four million pumps at work on<br/>
every acre, dissipating the moisture and<br/>
drying up the soil at the expense of the<br/>
crops. Friends, are the weeds pumping<br/>
your fields at this rate?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GAPES IN CHICKENS.—-The NEW ENG-<br/>
LAND FARMER pronounces the common<br/>
opinion about this malady being produc-<br/>
ed by some worm which is generated in<br/>
the throat as incorrect. It says the cause<br/>
is colds and sore throats, which the<br/>
chickens get by wandering in the wet<br/>
grass. It asks how many chickens' lives<br/>
are bodies ever saved by running feathers<br/>
down their throats to scoop out the<br/>
worms. It says the true remedy is ad-<br/>
ministered before the disease makes its<br/>
appearance, and that is to confine the<br/>
chickens away from the early morning<br/>
grass.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOW TO COOK A BEEFSTEAK.—-A beef-<br/>
steak ought always to be broiling and<br/>
never fried; but the following method<br/>
of cooking is recommended by Mrs.<br/>
Hutton, which even those who are ac-<br/>
customed to frying may be willing to try:<br/>
"The frying pan being wiped very dry,<br/>
place it upon the stove and let it become<br/>
hot—very hot. In the meantime mangle<br/>
the steak—pepper and salt it, then lay it<br/>
in the hot, dry pan, which instantly covers<br/>
as tightly as possible. When the raw<br/>
flesh touches the heated pan, of course it<br/>
sizzles and adheres to it, but in a few<br/>
seconds it becomes browned and juicy.<br/>
Every half minute turn the steak; but be<br/>
careful to keep it as much as possible un-<br/>
der cover. When nearly done, lay a<br/>
small piece of butter upon it, and, if you<br/>
want much gravy, add a tablespoonful of<br/>
strong coffee. In three minutes from the<br/>
time the steak first goes into the pan it is<br/>
ready for the table. This method of<br/>
cooking makes the most delicious, delic-<br/>
ately broiled steak, full of juice, yet<br/>
retaining the healthful beefy flavor that<br/>
any John Bull could require. The same<br/>
method may be applied to mutton chops,<br/>
only they need a little longer cooking to<br/>
prevent them from being rare. An ex-<br/>
cellent gravy may be made for them by<br/>
adding a little cream, thickened with a<br/>
pinch of flour, into which, when off the<br/>
fire and partly cool, stir in the yolk of an<br/>
egg, well beaten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRESHENING FISH.—-Many persons who<br/>
are in the habit of freshening mackerel,<br/>
or other salt fish, never dream that there<br/>
is a right and a wrong way to do it.<br/>
Any person who has seen the process of<br/>
evaporation going on at the salt works<br/>
knows that the salt falls to the bottom.<br/>
Just so it is in the pan where your mack-<br/>
erel or white fish lies soaking, and if it<br/>
lies with the skin side down the salt will<br/>
fall to the skin and remain there, when,<br/>
if placed with the flesh side down the<br/>
salt falls to the bottom of the pan, and<br/>
the fish comes out freshened as it should<br/>
in the other case it is nearly as salty as<br/>
when put in. If you do not believe this<br/>
test it for yourself.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Malherbe Jullian & Co.<br/>
beg to inform the public, that<br/>
they have established a branch of their<br/>
business in the house formerly occupied<br/>
by F. Blake Esq. near the Portuguese<br/>
Consulate, and that they have just re-<br/>
ceived a large supply of almost every<br/>
thing their customers may desire to<br/>
purchase, and would hereby invite<br/>
them to come and inspect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Dec. 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Doctor Macgowan on China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(SAN FRANCISCO PAPER.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Want of space will not admit of review-<br/>
ing the whole of Doctor Macgowan's in-<br/>
teresting address to the mayor and board<br/>
of supervisors, on Monday evening of<br/>
last week. But there are a few points to<br/>
which we would call especial attention,<br/>
as they deserve more than a mere passing<br/>
notice. The first of these is his recom-<br/>
mendation that the Government of the<br/>
United States should follow the example<br/>
of other great Powers and establish, at<br/>
the earliest possible moment, a naval sta-<br/>
tion on the coast of China or Japan. In<br/>
the event of a war between the United<br/>
States and any other maritime Power,<br/>
one of the most important points where-<br/>
in the commerce of that Power could be<br/>
seriously annoyed, would be the Indian<br/>
Ocean and China Seas, but to do this a<br/>
powerful squadron would have to be em-<br/>
ployed; and this could not be done if we<br/>
possessed no base of supplies nearer than<br/>
our nearest home port, which port would<br/>
be San Francisco. Had we, a port where-<br/>
at our vessels could be refitted and<br/>
repaired without the necessity of returning<br/>
to the distant coast of the United States,<br/>
we could maintain a fleet in those waters<br/>
that would harass and annoy the enemy<br/>
constantly, without the certainty of the<br/>
vessels composing it being compelled,<br/>
sooner or later, to leave their cruising<br/>
ground to make good deficiencies. Even<br/>
as a peace establishment, its importance<br/>
and its great economy will be manifest to<br/>
every one. Our squadron in the East<br/>
Indies is now larger than it ever has been,<br/>
and there is no probability of its being<br/>
diminished in size. A proper naval depot<br/>
will have always on hand the means of<br/>
supplying this squadron with everything<br/>
required, and if located far enough north,<br/>
the port will answer admirably wherein<br/>
to give the crews liberty, and enable<br/>
them to recruit health and strength after<br/>
an extended cruise within the tropics.<br/>
Of course a hospital would form a portion<br/>
of the establishment. Again, after the<br/>
vessel's commission had expired, or the<br/>
time had arrived to relieve the officers<br/>
and crew, instead of the vessel going<br/>
home, and another coming to take her<br/>
place, she could be overhauled and refitt-<br/>
ed, and a new set of officers and new<br/>
crew could be sent out, thus avoiding the<br/>
necessity and heavy additional expense of<br/>
taking the vessel from the station. We<br/>
cannot now speak of all the advantages<br/>
to accrue if the recommendation of Dr.<br/>
Macgowan be acted upon, but we are of<br/>
the opinion, if the matter is properly laid<br/>
before our Government, it will receive<br/>
the attention it deserves. The second<br/>
point to which we will refer, and which<br/>
we deem the most important, is that<br/>
wherein the Doctor makes suggestions as<br/>
to the kind of men we should have for<br/>
consuls in China, and his remarks upon<br/>
the men who have heretofore held those<br/>
important positions. His remarks ap-<br/>
plied only to consuls in China, but he<br/>
might with great propriety have extended<br/>
them so as to apply to nearly every point<br/>
whereat we have a consul. In no way does<br/>
the United States suffer so much abroad as<br/>
by the conduct, character and ability of<br/>
the majority of those men who are sent<br/>
to represent us as consuls in foreign parts.<br/>
In their appointment no effort whatever<br/>
is made to examine into their fitness for<br/>
the position. Senator this, or Represen-<br/>
tative that, recommends John Smith or<br/>
William Jones as a man who has done<br/>
much to further the political interests of<br/>
the party in power, and one who for this<br/>
service should be properly rewarded.<br/>
No pains are taken to find out who John<br/>
Smith or William Jones are, or if they<br/>
possess in the slightest degree qualifica-<br/>
tions for the office, but, for the want of<br/>
a vacancy at home, or to get them out of<br/>
the way, they are sent abroad as consuls.<br/>
On arriving at their destinations, without<br/>
any knowledge of the duties of a consul,<br/>
or the ability to speak the first word of<br/>
the language of the people among whom<br/>
they are to reside, and with whom they<br/>
are to be thrown in constant intercourse,<br/>
they are generally like lost sheep. Then<br/>
in many instances they imagine that to be<br/>
a big drinker, a proficient swearer and to<br/>
have a good political swagger, impresses<br/>
foreigners with the importance of a con-<br/>
sul of the United States, and they act<br/>
accordingly, until foreigners, judging<br/>
from their conduct, imagine us to be a<br/>
nation of ignorant fools, of blackguards,<br/>
or both, from which no better selection<br/>
could be made than the one amongst<br/>
them. In this way we lose all respect<br/>
abroad, and the State Department be-<br/>
comes involved in a lot of trouble and<br/>
annoyance that would be entirely avoided<br/>
were some care taken in selecting men<br/>
for consular appointments. The remedy,<br/>
as suggested by Doctor Macgowan for<br/>
this evil, is the only feasible one, but we<br/>
very much fear that in the present con-<br/>
dition of politics in the United States<br/>
there is but little hope of a change from<br/>
the present system. And lastly, the<br/>
Doctor's remarks on the great benefit to<br/>
be derived from the new steamship line<br/>
to Japan and China, the importance of<br/>
the establishment of the electric telegraph<br/>
in China, and the benefit to agriculture<br/>
in this State from the acclimatisation of<br/>
the plants of India, China, and Japan,<br/>
are all worthy of extended notice, and we<br/>
regret not being able to go over the en-<br/>
tire ground taken by him, Not that we<br/>
could say more upon the point he has<br/>
handled so well, but in order that we<br/>
might add our mite in aid of the good<br/>
work he is engaged upon, of bringing to<br/>
the notice of our people how much our<br/>
country can be benefited by a closer rela-<br/>
tionship with the great Celestial Empire<br/>
and its neighbour, Japan. Dr. Macowan's<br/>
mission to Peking as Commissioner of the<br/>
East India Telegraph Company is a most<br/>
important one; that he will be successful<br/>
we have no doubt. His knowledge of<br/>
the people, their manners, customs, and<br/>
language render him the best selection<br/>
that could be made, not only for the<br/>
interests of the company by whom he is<br/>
employed, but for the interests of our<br/>
people generally.—-Los. & C. Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Southern Loyalists.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The convention of Southern Union-<br/>
ists held in Philadelphia last week, Sept.<br/>
was one of the most remarkable assemblies<br/>
that ever met in that city, or any other,<br/>
the circumstances the men, their charac-<br/>
ter, their trials, their spirit, their states-<br/>
manship, their magnanimity, and their lof-<br/>
tiness of bearing, combine to give an im-<br/>
portance to their proceedings, just now<br/>
immeasurable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not only were the Southern men<br/>
themselves men of mark, but the dele-<br/>
gates from the Northern States, who<br/>
were there to counsel, sympathize, and<br/>
congratulate, were men of the very high-<br/>
est rank—-governors, senators, members<br/>
of congress, and others of good position<br/>
and commanding abilities. So much<br/>
brain power, so much manly culture, so<br/>
much strength of principle, so in such<br/>
breast of patriotism, and so much high<br/>
souled courage have rarely met together<br/>
in the world. No convention has ever<br/>
before received so much attention from<br/>
Philadelphia, from the best people, as<br/>
was one, and none has ever before<br/>
made so profound an impression on the<br/>
whole population.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The convention, of August, mutely<br/>
met in the same city, and adopted an<br/>
elaborate address in support of Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson, which the masses will<br/>
neither read nor appreciate, was but a<br/>
feeble and flat affair in comparison with<br/>
this of September. That was a nine<br/>
days wonder; this will prove a stimula-<br/>
ting and perpetual power.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The resolutions and address put forth<br/>
by this convention ring out like trump-<br/>
ets. They are heartily and unanimous-<br/>
ly in favor of the Congressional method<br/>
of reconstruction, and very radical. They<br/>
are able, broad, generous, and noble.<br/>
Their principles are just, their tone is<br/>
manly, and their spirit is admirable. As<br/>
was to have been expected, the address<br/>
condemns the course of President John-<br/>
son severely; and he is indicted on sev-<br/>
eral charges, in language that is almost<br/>
terrific, and yet all too true. Governor<br/>
Brownlow, of Tennessee, never spares a<br/>
traitor; and he made some characteristic<br/>
speeches; while many other members<br/>
were as bitter in the denunciation of<br/>
President Johnson and his policy, as was<br/>
that famous patriot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the members of the Convention<br/>
were agreed, heart and hand, in favor of<br/>
Congress and its policy, endorsing Con-<br/>
gress without limitations, and in all di-<br/>
rections. On the subject of enfranchis-<br/>
ing the colored population there was a<br/>
division of sentiment. The delegates<br/>
from the states further South were desi-<br/>
dedly in favor of giving the negroes the<br/>
privilege of voting! Governor Brown-<br/>
low made a speech in favor of it. Most<br/>
of the delegates from the border States<br/>
were open to negro suffrage, but not<br/>
all of them. It has become evident to<br/>
all observing persons, that most of the<br/>
Southern states will be kept in the hands<br/>
of the rebels, and friends of the old<br/>
oligarchy, unless the negroes, loyal to a<br/>
man, are allowed to vote with the Union-<br/>
ists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We sympathize with the delegates from<br/>
the far South. We are in favor of giv-<br/>
ing the ballot to every loyal man, that<br/>
can read and write in English, whatever<br/>
his race and color. We hope this may<br/>
yet be done. We shall not be sure of<br/>
peace, amity and perpetual allegiance,<br/>
till it is done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But, for the time; that must be at-<br/>
tempted in which the masses of the Un-<br/>
ion party are agreed; and the amend-<br/>
ments to the Constitution, proposed by<br/>
Congress, must be ratified by twenty-<br/>
eight of the states. Unless this be done<br/>
speedily, the miseries of the Southern<br/>
loyalists will be prolonged, increased,<br/>
and intensified: and the nation be again<br/>
deeply agitated and convulsed.-—PACIFIC
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Corea.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The French Expedition.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Chefoo we learn that the news<br/>
of the burning of the General Sherman<br/>
by the Coreans and the consequent death<br/>
of all on board is confirmed under date<br/>
of October 23rd. The French fleet con-<br/>
sisting of one frigate, 3 corvettes, and<br/>
4 gunboats left for Corea on the 11th ul-<br/>
timo, and on the 15th entered the town<br/>
of Kanghon, some distance up a river,<br/>
described as a small place of only 10,000<br/>
inhabitants, nearly all of whom deser-<br/>
ted the town on the French approach.<br/>
The fact of the murder of the missiona-<br/>
ries is fully admitted by the Coreans, and<br/>
a mandarin who was captured and taken<br/>
on board the admiral's ship seemed to<br/>
glory in the fact. The King invited the<br/>
French admiral to proceed to the capital<br/>
to negociate; but this was declined, as a<br/>
trap was suspected, and a despatch was<br/>
sent instead, in which demands were made<br/>
for punishment of the mandarins who had<br/>
instigated the murders, and for the ap-<br/>
pointment of a plenipotentiary. News<br/>
had been brought to the French by a Co-<br/>
rean convert that junks containing stones<br/>
had been sunk in the River Seoul, be-<br/>
tween Kanghon and the capital; and that<br/>
the Viceroy had despatched an army 15,-<br/>
000 strong to attack them.—-Ov C. MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Butter without Churning.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At a late meeting of the American In-<br/>
stitute Farmer's Club, Dr. Sylvester stated<br/>
that he had tried the experiment of niak-<br/>
ing butter by burying the cream in a linen<br/>
bag and that in another bag to keep it<br/>
clean, which he buried about eighteen<br/>
inches deep, and after twenty-four hours<br/>
took it up and found the cream thoroughly<br/>
converted into butter as it is by churning.<br/>
It is just in the condition that butter is<br/>
when it is "come" without being gather-<br/>
ed by the dasher. It was worked in the<br/>
usual way, and made as good butter as<br/>
ever was churned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A SUBSCRIBER asks how warts can be<br/>
most readily removed-—with caustic, lunar,<br/>
or potash. Five cents worth, of either lu-<br/>
nar caustic, or caustic of potash, will suf-<br/>
fice. Keep the caustic in a vial, take a<br/>
stick of it, wet the end with water or spat-<br/>
tle, and rub it on the warts. Two or three<br/>
applications will suffice. Be very careful<br/>
with the caustic of potash, or it will eat<br/>
too deep and make a sore.-—N. H. FARM-<br/>
ER.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
IT APPEARS, by the proceedings at a<br/>
late meeting of an agricultural society in<br/>
France, that certain learned cultivators<br/>
there have met with great success in the<br/>
use of coal tar and phenic acid, in protect-<br/>
ing plants and vegetables from insects.<br/>
Three per cent of the tar, mixed with<br/>
earth, and placed about grape vines, had<br/>
caused abundant crops, when, without it,<br/>
the fruit was certainly destroyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UP TO March 3d, the cattle plague had<br/>
appeared on 16,415 farms in England ;<br/>
8,396 in Scotland ; and 688 in Wales ; to-<br/>
tal, 20,499 farms. There was on these<br/>
farms a grand total of 342,712 head of cat-<br/>
tle ; of these 187,069 had been attacked ;<br/>
26,35 killed for security ; 39,081 slaugh-<br/>
tered healthy ; 117,664 died of the disease;<br/>
recovered, 26,166.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have<br/>
received por last Mail a fine assortment<br/>
of clothes for gentlemen, as Jackets,<br/>
Waistcoats, Trousers etc. etc. fit for<br/>
the season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
