---
linkTitle: 'October 11st, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - October 11st, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); October 11st'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 63
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, October 11th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 40.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 p. m. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
Limited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of free seats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
He loved the world.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY MRS. S. M. PERKINS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}We know it by the sunshine fair,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Whose glorious radiance fills the air,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And softly sleeps on mountain-side,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On placid lake and prairie wide;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By all the chastened light that gleams<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On lonely dell and murmuring streams.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We know it by the music-notes,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By every gleeful song that floats<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From bird or bee, or laughing rill;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By all the joyous notes that thrill<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Our hearts with love, and joy, and peace,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Till sin's tumultuous throbbings cease.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We know it by the flowers so fair,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That raise their heads in beauty rare,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That speak to us of faith and hope;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From lonely cliff and mountain slope,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their incense goeth up to God,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where human foot hath never trod.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But more than these : he gave his Son,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The pure, the matchless Holy One,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who came to seek and save the lost,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The contrite soul, by tempest tossed.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He loved the world; to it was given<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A Saviour, Christ, to lead to Heaven.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dr. Miller's Duck Story.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late Dr. Miller, of Princeton, as<br/>
all his students will remember, abounded<br/>
in anecdotes, which he related to his<br/>
classes from year to year, to illustrate<br/>
the points made in his lectures. One of<br/>
them occurs to us just now, as specially<br/>
applicable to the new converts which<br/>
have recently come into the churches<br/>
within the bounds of our circulation: A<br/>
celebrated judge in Virginia was, in his<br/>
earlier years, skeptical to the truth of the<br/>
Bible, and especially to the reality of ex-<br/>
perimental religion. He had a favorite<br/>
servant who accompanied him in his tra-<br/>
vels round his circuit. As they passed<br/>
from court-house to court-house, they<br/>
frequently conversed on the subject of<br/>
religion, the servant, Harry, venturing<br/>
at times to remonstrate with his master<br/>
against his infidelity. As the judge had<br/>
confidence in Harry's honesty and sincer-<br/>
ity, he asked him a great many questions<br/>
as to how he felt and what he thought<br/>
on various points. Amongst other things<br/>
Harry told his master that he was often<br/>
very sorely tempted and tried by the de-<br/>
vil. The judge asked Harry to explain<br/>
how it happened that the devil attacked<br/>
him (Harry), who was so pious a man, so<br/>
sorely, whilst he allowed himself, who<br/>
was an infidel and a sinner, to pass un-<br/>
noticed and untempted. Harry asked,<br/>
"Are you right sure, master, that he does<br/>
let you pass without troubling you?<br/>
"Certainly I am," replied the judge; "I<br/>
have no dealings with him at all. I do<br/>
not even so much as know that there is<br/>
any such being in existence as the devil.<br/>
If there is any such being he never trou-<br/>
bles me." "Well," said Harry, "I know<br/>
that there is a devil, and that he tries me<br/>
sorely at times." A day or two after-<br/>
wards, when the judge had gotten through<br/>
his docket, he concluded to go on a hunt<br/>
for wild ducks on one of the streams<br/>
which lay across his road homeward<br/>
Harry accompanied him. As they ap-<br/>
proached the river they espied a flock of<br/>
ducks quietly floating on its surface.<br/>
The judge stealthily crept up the bank<br/>
and fired upon them, killing two or three<br/>
and wounding as many others. He at<br/>
once threw down his gun and made stren-<br/>
uous efforts, with the aid of clubs and<br/>
stones, to secure the wounded ducks,<br/>
whilst he permitted the dead ones to float<br/>
on, for the time, unnoticed by him. Har-<br/>
ry, as he sat on the seat of the carriage,<br/>
watched his master's movements with deep<br/>
interest, and when he returned, said to<br/>
him: "Massa, whilst you was a splashin'<br/>
in de water after dem wounded ducks,<br/>
and lettin' de dead ones float on, it just<br/>
come into my mind, why it is dat de de-<br/>
vil troubles me so much, whilst he lets<br/>
you alone. You are like de dead ducks;<br/>
he's sure he's got you safe. I'm like de<br/>
wounded ones, trying to git away from<br/>
him, and he's afraid I'll do it, so he makes<br/>
all de fuss after me and jist lets you float<br/>
on down de stream. He knows he can<br/>
git you at any time; but he knows its<br/>
now or never wid me. If you were to<br/>
begin to flutter a little and show signs<br/>
like you were agoin' to git away from<br/>
him, he would make jist as big a splashin'<br/>
after you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The illustration struck the learned<br/>
judge with great force, and led him to<br/>
reinvestigate the grounds of his skeptic-<br/>
ism, and, through Harry's instrumentali-<br/>
ty, he was fully brought to sit with him<br/>
at the feet of Jesus to learn of him.<br/>
The illustration is a homely one, but it<br/>
sets forth a great truth in the experiences<br/>
of those who set out in the Christian<br/>
course. They must expect to be assailed<br/>
by Satan as they never were before. If<br/>
he fails of success in causing their fall<br/>
by the use of one form of temptation, he<br/>
will try another. He is a cunning old<br/>
fox. He has tried so long, and had so<br/>
much to do with men, that he is now an<br/>
adept in devising means to ruin them, and<br/>
make them as miserable and degraded as<br/>
himself. Young Christians, therefore,<br/>
should not think it strange concerning<br/>
the fiery trials which are to try them, as<br/>
though some strange thing had happened<br/>
to them, hitherto unknown methods of<br/>
assault. As long as the devil feels that<br/>
sinners are safe, and that he is sure to<br/>
get them at last, he allows them to float<br/>
on quietly upon an unruffled current;<br/>
but the moment they attempt to throw<br/>
off his yoke, and to assert their indepen-<br/>
dence of him, they must expect his wrath<br/>
to wax exceeding hot, and his assaults to<br/>
fall thick and fast upon their heads.<br/>
They should not be ignorant of his de-<br/>
vices. He goes about as a roaring lion,<br/>
seeking whom he may devour.—-PRES.<br/>
HERALD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The effect of Sadowa on
the Papacy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Spectator.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The results of this contest in Europe, if<br/>
it ends, as all Englishmen now expect that<br/>
it must end, in a complete final victory for<br/>
Prussia, are so vast that the mind refuses<br/>
to grasp them except one by one, and even<br/>
then only at intervals. Just at this mo-<br/>
ment the British public can attend only to<br/>
the effect of the campaign upon Austria<br/>
and France, but it will modify the position<br/>
of every power in Europe in a nearly equal<br/>
degree. France loses at once her dictator-<br/>
ship, and sinks, as the ECONOMIST has<br/>
pointed out, into one of many co-ordinate<br/>
powers; Austria becomes the natural pro-<br/>
tector of the nationalities of the East, in-<br/>
stead of the natural foe of the nationalities<br/>
of the West; and Russia finds an impass-<br/>
ible barrier erected between herself and the<br/>
civilized half of the European world. With<br/>
Germany constituted, it becomes useless<br/>
for England to waste time and character<br/>
in protecting an insolvent Mussulman<br/>
horde, while Scandinavia gains an ally a-<br/>
mong whose immediate and pressing inter-<br/>
ests will be the freedom of the Baltic.<br/>
Upon no power, however, will the blow<br/>
fall so heavily as on the Papacy, which lost<br/>
at Sadowa infinitely more than it has for-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
felted during the last six disastrous years,<br/>
for it lost the chance of regaining all. Had<br/>
Austria won the game, and an Austrian<br/>
army been billeted in Berlin, Rome would<br/>
hardly have been evacuated within this<br/>
generation, and Umbria and the Marches<br/>
might have been replaced under the priest-<br/>
ly sway its subjects so bitterly detest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The world, as it appears to the Vatican,<br/>
will be divided among six great States, and<br/>
of these France will be Voltairian, Prussia<br/>
Lutheran, Britain on all Papal questions<br/>
Calvanistic, Russia Greek and hostile, Italy<br/>
Catholic but anti-Papal, and Austria Pa-<br/>
pal, but bound by the evil prejudices of<br/>
the Hungarians, who are anxious to be<br/>
shown by the Church the way to heaven,<br/>
but think they can see their road on earth<br/>
for themselves. Spain is orthodox, to be<br/>
sure, but then Spain is also sceptical, gov-<br/>
erned by men who detest all schism, but<br/>
who also detest wars for a creed in which<br/>
they only half believe ; and then could<br/>
Spain beat Italy? The prospect is dark<br/>
on every side ; Italy consolidated, Germa-<br/>
ny united, Austria moved eastward, Bava-<br/>
ria paralyzed, Spain left helpless, Rome<br/>
seething with hatred under their feet, the<br/>
poor priests are thrown back on Heaven<br/>
and Napoleon as their only protectors, and<br/>
while Heaven gives victory to infidels, Na-<br/>
poleon refuses to intervene and save the<br/>
faithful. The changes are all so sudden,<br/>
too, and the men who conduct them so<br/>
violent, there is no time for intrigue, and<br/>
what can one do with a Protestant aristo-<br/>
crat like Bismark, who treats Popes as if<br/>
they were petty princes, and compels them<br/>
to consecrate Bishops as if a concordat<br/>
were a secular treaty to be enforced by the<br/>
bayonet, who does not even believe, like<br/>
Mr. Disraeli, that the “independence of<br/>
of the Papacy is essential to the European<br/>
equilibrium ?” Mr. Disraeli is in power, it<br/>
is true, but then his Ministry accepts or-<br/>
ders from Orangemen, and if it did not,<br/>
would not dare in the face of every Eng-<br/>
lish rector to interfere for Rome. Verily,<br/>
Satan is abroad more visibly than in 1848,<br/>
for then there was aid to be obtained from<br/>
the Powers ; in greater strength than in<br/>
1860, for then all depended on a single<br/>
life, and a life in the long duration of the<br/>
Papacy is scarcely an appreciable point of<br/>
time. The new changes will be permanent,<br/>
and Napoleon will pass away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The temporal power must end, even<br/>
should the Pope remain in Rome, for he<br/>
could only be safe under Italian bayonets,<br/>
and an Italian Pontiff exercising power<br/>
through Italians only over an Italian po-<br/>
pulation, must be either an arch priest or<br/>
a lieutenant-general of the secular Sovereign<br/>
of Italy. Flight is the only alterna-<br/>
tive, and though this will be pressed upon<br/>
the Pope by the Jesuits and the fanatics<br/>
who think his departure will disturb the<br/>
order of the world, there are more mode-<br/>
rate men around him, who ask whither he<br/>
is to fly. The hand of France will, he<br/>
knows well, be heavier than that of Italy,<br/>
no Italian priest or prince will willingly<br/>
live in Germany, the Balearic Isles are too<br/>
isolated for a Court which is still one of<br/>
the great centres of human action, and in<br/>
Malta, the refuge towards which the mind<br/>
of Pope Pius most readily turns, he must<br/>
conciliate a heretical power. * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The struggle for temporal power once<br/>
closed, there will be no need for applying<br/>
a test which drives away able men, and a<br/>
genius either on or behind the Holy Chair<br/>
becomes once more a terrible possibility.<br/>
If such a man should arise, a man, for in-<br/>
stance, who saw how easily Rome could<br/>
link herself with the social aspirations of<br/>
the masses, who could give to her vast<br/>
hierarchy, which still extends through eve-<br/>
ry grade of human life, still dwells in pa-<br/>
laces and lazarettos, among princes as a-<br/>
mong convists, the order to defend the peo-<br/>
ple, there may yet be a career before the<br/>
Papacy as magnificent as the one which,<br/>
unless a miracle supervenes, must end<br/>
with Pius IX. Even without such a genius<br/>
the change may be tremendous, FOR FROM<br/>
THE DAY OF THE EXTINCTION OF THE<br/>
TEMPORAL POWER THE PAPACY MUST IN-<br/>
EVITABLY ALLY ITSELF WITH DEMOCRACY,<br/>
and in that simple fact what possibilities<br/>
are not contained ! She has nothing more<br/>
to hope or fear from the Kings, everything<br/>
to hope and fear from those masses who<br/>
have not yet risen to the level at which<br/>
men reject all guidance, who alone, of all<br/>
the forces now rising, can coerce the in-<br/>
tellectual class which has finally thrown<br/>
off sacerdotal authority, and who are ten-<br/>
ding more rapidly day by day all over Eu-<br/>
rope towards organizations which Rome<br/>
knows how to administer, which are in fact<br/>
but poor imitations of many of her own<br/>
Orders. We find associations of agricul-<br/>
ture very difficult to manage, but the men<br/>
who built Woburn did not, and Benedicti-<br/>
nes are not the people most likely to be<br/>
blind to the powers and the difficulties in-<br/>
herent in co-operative life. We need not<br/>
say we should regard such a transforma-<br/>
tion of the Papacy with alarm, for the sa-<br/>
cerdotal caste seems to us, of all others,<br/>
the worst fitted to lead the multitudes<br/>
through the desert into the promised land<br/>
which, as the French Utopians say, they<br/>
see beyond the Red Sea, but the transfor-<br/>
mation has become possible, and Sadowa<br/>
may yet be a date in the spiritual history<br/>
of mankind.—THE FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mr. Gladstone.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY MOSES COIT TYLER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prospects of the Liberal cause in<br/>
England—-the issues of those momentous<br/>
designs of a statesmanship more enligh-<br/>
tened and magnanimous than Europe has<br/>
hitherto seen—-are seemingly so bound up<br/>
with the political future of Mr. Gladstone,<br/>
that it will repay us to glance at the<br/>
causes of this relentless personal opposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. There is one phrase which, in the up-<br/>
per circles of English society, is more<br/>
damning to the man to whom it may be<br/>
applied than any other in the whole voca-<br/>
bulary of depreciation. It is the phrase<br/>
"political adventurer"—the modern synon-<br/>
ysm of the Latin "NOVUS HOMO;" the<br/>
phrase with which the old Roman patri-<br/>
cians sought to blast the career of Cicero;<br/>
the phrase which, in our own century, has<br/>
been hurled by English patricians at the<br/>
greatest statesmen in it—at Canning,<br/>
Huskisson, Henry Brougham, Richard<br/>
Cobden, and William Ewart Gladstone.<br/>
The unpardonable offense of Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone is that he neither got himself born<br/>
nor got himself married into any of the<br/>
thirty-one great governing families of<br/>
England. It is true that he is wealthy,<br/>
that his father was a baronet, that the as-<br/>
sociations of his life have been aristocra-<br/>
tic; yet he is neither a Cavendish, nor a<br/>
Courtney, nor a Stanley, nor a Cecil. By<br/>
his genius, by his goodness, by his past re-<br/>
nown, by his stupendous popularity, they<br/>
perceive that Mr. Gladstone is to be Eng-<br/>
land's real monarch for the next decade<br/>
and a half. They are wrathful that ano-<br/>
ther supreme minister has risen from the<br/>
middle-class. Either Mr. Gladstone should<br/>
not have been so great a man, or he should<br/>
not have allowed himself to be born out<br/>
of their set.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. The second reason to explain the op-<br/>
position to him is one even more ignoble—<br/>
the envy of old comrades at his success.<br/>
By the trophies of this Miltiades there are<br/>
some scores of ambitious fellows in Parlia-<br/>
ment who cannot sleep. The men who<br/>
witnessed the glory of Lord Palmerston's<br/>
later years could exult in it with a satis-<br/>
faction unalloyed by so base a passion as I<br/>
now refer to: he was of an elder genera-<br/>
tion, and was above the range of their jea-<br/>
lousy. But such illustrious personages as<br/>
Robert Lowe, Mr. Laing, Mr. Horseman,<br/>
Sir Robert Peel, Lord Cranbourne, Lord<br/>
A. Montagu, look upon themselves as the<br/>
equals of Mr. Gladstone, because they are<br/>
his contemporaries; and they cannot for-<br/>
give him because the general opinion of<br/>
England does not coincide with theirs in<br/>
that respect. I have wondered whether<br/>
the moon ever gets into a rage when it<br/>
happens to find itself eclipsed. If that be<br/>
the case, there is a striking analogy be-<br/>
tween the moon and several of Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone's old associates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. There is one other serious objection<br/>
to Mr. Gladstone, operating not alone up-<br/>
on those to whom I have already referred,<br/>
but upon a multitude of others: he is an<br/>
earnest man. His political views are not<br/>
jests, but convictions. With him political<br/>
life seems to be neither an ostentation,<br/>
nor a disguised selfishness, nor a comedy;<br/>
but a consecration. The principle English<br/>
politicians, however, who are just now at<br/>
the surface, have grown up under the ex-<br/>
ample of Lord Palmerston, and have been<br/>
morally debauched by the success of that<br/>
splendid political sadducee. With a fa-<br/>
cile smile, a jovial bearing, incredulous as<br/>
to the higher maxims of public conduct,<br/>
worldly, materialistic, they look upon<br/>
statesmanship as a highly respectable and<br/>
remunerative farce; they regard election<br/>
pledges as a play with words; they admire<br/>
the gift of blarney as the chief attribute<br/>
of a first minister, and they think the<br/>
most serious plea sufficiently refuted by<br/>
the most trivial pun. Of course, such men<br/>
cannot comprehend earnestness: it arouses<br/>
either their ridicule or their rage. When<br/>
they see it in ordinary men, they laugh at<br/>
it; they banter it; they try to smother it<br/>
between a shower of
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Quips and cranks and wanton wiles."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But when they behold this spirit in the<br/>
alliance of personal greatness, kindling an<br/>
eloquence whose majesty overwhelms them,<br/>
vitalizing a scholarship whose vastness fills<br/>
them with awe, crowning and glorifying a<br/>
nature whose dignity silences the patter of<br/>
their shallow facetiousness, what is left to<br/>
them but hate—a hostility hardened into<br/>
utter vindictiveness, and gnashing its teeth<br/>
in an ecstasy of loathing?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No discerning person could have sat in<br/>
the House of Commons this session, could<br/>
have heard the tone of the opposing<br/>
speeches, could have seen and heard how<br/>
"the first assembly of gentlemen in the<br/>
world" was capable of resolving itself in-<br/>
to a zoological garden of wild-beasts, of<br/>
magpies and monkeys, bowling, bellowing,<br/>
screeching, chattering, in one prolonged<br/>
chorus of brutal fury against the Chan-<br/>
cellor of the Exchequer, without perceiv-<br/>
ing that there was an antagonism between<br/>
him and them only to be explained by that<br/>
tremendous gulf of moral unlikeness of<br/>
which I have spoken.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the agony is now over. England is<br/>
to have a Tory government. It may last<br/>
a few weeks; it may last a few months;<br/>
but not long will the people endure it.<br/>
Probably, before the first anniversary of<br/>
his resignation, the heart of England will<br/>
call again to the foremost place her best<br/>
beloved and her ablest statesman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the whole, the interregnum is not to<br/>
be regretted. It will be good for England<br/>
to be reminded what a Tory ministry is<br/>
like. It will be good for the Liberal party<br/>
to have an experience of adversity. It<br/>
will be pre-eminently good for Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone to have a year of repose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This very evening, I went down to the<br/>
House, to hear the ministerial statement<br/>
of the Queen's decision. I found Old Pa-<br/>
lace Yard thronged with people eager to<br/>
see the arrival of the chieftains of both<br/>
parties. An English crowd never minces<br/>
matters, or expresses itself with ambigu-<br/>
ity. They growled, and groaned, and shook<br/>
their fists at the men who have defeated<br/>
the measure for the people's enfranchise-<br/>
ment; and, as they recognised the cham-<br/>
pions of the people's cause, they heaped<br/>
cheers and benedictions upon their heads.<br/>
But, just as "Big Ben" sounded from his<br/>
regal tower the hour of six, we heard a<br/>
roar of voices far away down Parliament<br/>
street, and presently Mr. Gladstone, with<br/>
Mrs. Gladstone at his side, drove in an<br/>
open carriage into the yard. How the hats<br/>
went off, and how the cheers went up from<br/>
those thousands of throats! Had he been<br/>
king, he could not have had a grander re-<br/>
ception. Climbing upon one of the pilas-<br/>
ters of Westminster Hall, holding on with<br/>
one hand, swinging my hat with the other,<br/>
and mingling my not very despicable Yan-<br/>
kee shouts with that immense gush of Bri-<br/>
tish enthusiasm, I had a fine view of the<br/>
minister who was just to announce that<br/>
the Queen had accepted his resignation.<br/>
He has the face and the port of a states-<br/>
man. But, as he lifted his hat and res-<br/>
ponded to the salutes of the people, he<br/>
looked pale, and haggard, and weary. As<br/>
the carriage swept round under the arch-<br/>
way leading to the members' private en-<br/>
trance, Mrs. Gladstone rose, and threw<br/>
back over the multitudes a look of inex-<br/>
pressible happiness, and gratitude, and<br/>
wifely pride. How welcome to the jaded<br/>
statesman must be this release from the<br/>
toils of office. And this interlude of much<br/>
needed rest may save him from the fate of<br/>
so many of his predecessors, and may pre-<br/>
serve to England a life which has already<br/>
given a new luster to English eloquence<br/>
and to English statesmanship, and a new<br/>
impulse to the enlightenment and happi-<br/>
ness of mankind.-—THE INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN A Connecticut parish, a subscription<br/>
paper was recently started for the sup-<br/>
port of preaching, and laid first before<br/>
the minister for his subscription, as a<br/>
member of the parish. He subscribed<br/>
twenty dollars; no other one subscribed<br/>
as much. His pay that year was less<br/>
than four hundred dollars, including his<br/>
own subscription.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Memphis BULLETIN says, the body<br/>
of a man was found lately in Memphis<br/>
in such a condition as to leave no doubt<br/>
that he had been murdered. The police,<br/>
finding no clue, decided on trying photo-<br/>
graphy, and accordingly, on the day of<br/>
the murder, with the aid of a microscope,<br/>
images left on the retina of the eye of<br/>
the dead, were transferred to paper, and<br/>
curious facts developed. A pistol, the<br/>
hand, and part of the face of the man<br/>
who committed the crime, are perfectly<br/>
delineated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE new license law is to go into force<br/>
in New York City, on the first of May.<br/>
The law contains some new features, and<br/>
if it can be executed, will accomplish<br/>
much good. Under the new law, the<br/>
Commissioners of the Board of Health<br/>
are constituted a Board of Excise, who<br/>
shall have exclusive power of granting<br/>
licenses for the sales of liquors on Sun-<br/>
day, or on election days, within a quarter<br/>
of a mile of the election. No liquor is<br/>
to be sold to any apprentice, without the<br/>
consent of his master or mistress, nor to<br/>
any person under eighteen years of age,<br/>
without the consent of his father, mother,<br/>
or guardian. None is to be sold to an<br/>
habitual drunkard, nor to an intoxicated<br/>
person; nor against the request of any<br/>
wife, husband, parent, or child, to the<br/>
husband of any such wife, wife of such<br/>
husband, parent of such child, or child of<br/>
such parent. Liquor shops are to be<br/>
closed between midnight and sunrise, and<br/>
on Sunday. No person who trusts an-<br/>
other for liquors can compel payment at<br/>
law. INTOXICATION is made a criminal<br/>
offense, subject to a fine of ten dollars<br/>
and costs. Adequate fines and penalties<br/>
are provided for all the specific offences,<br/>
and the act is drawn throughout with<br/>
evident care and thoroughness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GEN. GRANT, in a recent conversation<br/>
with Rev. George Hepworth of Boston,<br/>
said of Gen. Sherman: "Sherman is a<br/>
man to be proud of. He is impetuous,<br/>
he is faulty, but he knows his own faults<br/>
as soon as any man." And of Sheridan<br/>
he said: "He is the best man in Ameri-<br/>
ca. He has no peer. He can wield any<br/>
force. He is pure hearted, simple-man-<br/>
nered, and a truly noble man." And of<br/>
himself he said: "There were a thousand<br/>
others who could have done the same<br/>
thing as well as I. I am thankful to God<br/>
that He helped me to do the work, but<br/>
had I not been living, or had the Govern-<br/>
ment passed over me, there are other<br/>
men who would have won the victory for<br/>
you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PLEASURE OF GOOD ACTIONS.—-After<br/>
we have practiced good actions for a<br/>
while, they become easy; and when they<br/>
are easy we take pleasure in them; and<br/>
when they please us we do them frequent-<br/>
ly; and, by frequency of acts, a thing<br/>
grows into habit, and so far as anything<br/>
is second nature; and so far as anything<br/>
is natural, so far it is necessary, and we<br/>
can hardly do otherwise—nay, we do it<br/>
many times when we do not think of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To claim that we are saved by infinite<br/>
MERCY, and at the same time to deny that<br/>
we deserve to perish by infinite JUSTICE, is a<br/>
contradiction of the superlative degree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}COWARDS only see GHOSTS.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A small bug can make a great hurt.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Save the CHILD and you save the MAN.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Not to care where you go is to go ruin.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
October 11th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tanon Charon Kroong.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of our local readers will re-<br/>
cognise in this name that it is one<br/>
given by the king to the New road, or<br/>
street, which he caused to be made,<br/>
three or four years since, from the<br/>
royal palace down the eastern side of<br/>
the river three miles or more in the<br/>
rear of the main body of the foreign<br/>
community of the city. We are hap-<br/>
py to learn that His Majesty has quite<br/>
recently much improved the street<br/>
by having sea-beach sand spread thick-<br/>
ly over it, so that such horrible mud<br/>
as was ever to be waded through last<br/>
year after a rain is now never seen,<br/>
and that even in our wettest days,<br/>
this month of rain, it is quite comfor-<br/>
table walking on it. Much praise, we<br/>
say, to his Majesty for this timely and<br/>
significant consideration, not only for<br/>
the comfort of his own subjects, but<br/>
also for the welfare of the European<br/>
community on that side of the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now we beg to express a lively<br/>
hope to His Majesty that this noble<br/>
deed of making and improving that<br/>
street, it being the beginning of beau-<br/>
tifying his capital after European<br/>
science and advancement, will lead<br/>
him onward in the same direction un-<br/>
til he shall have made many other<br/>
streets for the prosperity of Bangkok,<br/>
for surely a great work needs to be<br/>
done in this line. Why, only think<br/>
of it—-On the western side of the river<br/>
from Bangkok-yai southward three<br/>
miles or more, through a dense popula-<br/>
tion, there is nothing worthy the name<br/>
of a street. Where people walk from<br/>
one part of it to another, they are<br/>
obliged to go Indian file on the most<br/>
narrow, tortuous, and filthy foot paths,<br/>
dodging around this man’s house and<br/>
that man’s pig-stye, on a narrow slab or<br/>
a coacoanut log, over ditches and sloughs,<br/>
and crossing canals on rickety foot<br/>
bridges. In short the bridges are such<br/>
as it would be quite preposterous to<br/>
think of driving any thing over them<br/>
but men and goats.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Now be it known, that one of the<br/>
most powerful arms of the Siamese<br/>
government is on the western side of<br/>
the river, and many of the most weal-<br/>
thy native merchants live there also.<br/>
How long, we beg to ask that arm of<br/>
government, are we to wait ere he will<br/>
use his powerful influence in improving<br/>
his side of the city of Bangkok, by a<br/>
wide street from his own beautiful pa-<br/>
lace down in the rear of that dense<br/>
population ? And in our humble opin-<br/>
ion, that road should not stop where the<br/>
people cease to be dense, but should<br/>
proceed onward to Paknam, which<br/>
would be a much shorter cut to that<br/>
town than the one contemplated on<br/>
the east side of the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now while speaking of the im-<br/>
portance of having many new streets<br/>
made, we beg again to suggest to the<br/>
government the importance of having<br/>
some Police force to protect the in-<br/>
habitants on and near Charon kroong.<br/>
It is in a part of the city in which the<br/>
government has always preferred that<br/>
all the consuls and the main body of the<br/>
foreign merchants should live ; and<br/>
now, with a prominent view to their<br/>
comfort and welfare, as well as for<br/>
other noble objects, has made the new<br/>
street which of course is drawing into<br/>
the rear of these foreigners a great<br/>
population, of all classes of Siamese<br/>
subjects, thus rendering the property<br/>
and lives of the European and Ameri-<br/>
can much more exposed than they<br/>
otherwise would be. Is it not hence ma-<br/>
nifestly the duty of the government to<br/>
carry forward the improvement of that<br/>
street until a thorough Police force<br/>
shall have been established upon it ?<br/>
The great Bazar street is well protec-<br/>
ted by a Police, and much praise is<br/>
due the government for it. Is the<br/>
new street less deserving of this favor ?<br/>
Does not the new treaty relations into<br/>
which the Siamese government have<br/>
entered with the western nations re-<br/>
quire this on the part of the govern-<br/>
ment ? Now the street is wholly un-<br/>
protected, and has become notorious<br/>
for its dens of thieves and robbers.<br/>
And blackguards are so numerous<br/>
about it that it is quite dangerous for<br/>
European ladies to walk on it even in<br/>
the day time. Witness the reports<br/>
which we have been compelled to<br/>
make of the character of the street in<br/>
our present issue. Why ? They are<br/>
horrible—-and the case seems to be<br/>
coming worse and worse.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Islands No. 3.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
King Kamehameha I, though adher-<br/>
ing firmly to his idolatry until death,<br/>
ventured to make some marked inno-<br/>
vations in some of the customs con-<br/>
nected with it. He would not allow<br/>
any human sacrifices to be made for<br/>
himself in his last sickness which was<br/>
customary in such cases. Nor would<br/>
he consent that any such sacrifices<br/>
should be made for his spirit after<br/>
death. But in lieu of this his people<br/>
made a sacrifice of three hundred<br/>
dogs at his obsequies. The customary<br/>
wailings were made for him through-<br/>
out the Islands. The people shaved<br/>
their heads, burned themselves, knock-<br/>
ed out their front teeth, and broke<br/>
over all restraints as usual at the<br/>
death of the king, practicing all man-<br/>
ner of crimes, self torture, licentious-<br/>
ness, robbery, and murder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liholiho, the eldest son of Kame-<br/>
hameha succeeded to the throne at the<br/>
age of twenty two years. Kaahuma-<br/>
nu one of his father's principal wives<br/>
whom her royal husband had allowed<br/>
to share with him the responsibilities<br/>
of government, he made his Premier.<br/>
His own mother's name was Keopuola-<br/>
ni. These two royal women ultimate-<br/>
ly became nursing mothers to the<br/>
Church of Christ on the Islands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Soon after the accession of Liholiho<br/>
in 1819 an event occurred in the royal<br/>
family which as Dr. Anderson well<br/>
remarks "has scarcely a parallel in<br/>
history, giving an affirmative answer<br/>
to the inquiry of the prophet. "Hath<br/>
a nation changed her gods in a day?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The tabu system of restrictions<br/>
and prohibitions was inseparable from<br/>
the national idolatry. They extended<br/>
to sacred days, sacred places, sacred<br/>
persons, and sacred things; and the<br/>
least failure to observe them was pun-<br/>
ished with death. A prohibition,<br/>
which weighed as heavily as any other,<br/>
was that in regard to eating, and was<br/>
the first to be violated. A husband<br/>
could on no occasion eat with his wife<br/>
except on penalty of death. Women<br/>
were prohibited, on the same penalty,<br/>
from eating many of the choicest<br/>
kinds of meat, fruit, and fish. These<br/>
prohibitions extended to female chiefs<br/>
as well as to women of low rank.<br/>
Many of the highest chiefs of the na-<br/>
tion were females. They did not fear<br/>
being killed by the priests, for they<br/>
were chiefs ; but the priests, all along,<br/>
had made them believe that, if they<br/>
violated any prohibition, they would<br/>
be destroyed by the gods. This they<br/>
began to doubt, for they saw foreigners<br/>
living with impunity without any such<br/>
observances. Besides, a fact which<br/>
shows the power of God to bring good<br/>
out of evil, ardent spirits had been<br/>
introduced among them ; and they of-<br/>
ten, when partially intoxicated, tram-<br/>
pled heedlessly on the prohibitions of<br/>
their idolatry, and yet were not des-<br/>
troyed by the gods. The awful dread<br/>
therefore which formerly existed, had<br/>
in a measure subsided ; and when no<br/>
longer restrained by fear, the female<br/>
chiefs were quite ready to throw off<br/>
the burdens so long imposed upon<br/>
them. Keopuolani, the mother of the<br/>
king, first violated the system, by eat-<br/>
ing with her youngest son. Other<br/>
chiefs, when they saw no evil follow,<br/>
were inclined to imitate her example.<br/>
But the king was slow to yield. At<br/>
length, however he gave his assent,<br/>
and then the work was done. The<br/>
chiefs, as a body, trampled on all the<br/>
unpleasant restraints which had been<br/>
imposed upon them by their system<br/>
of idolatry. In doing this, they were<br/>
aware that they threw off allegiance<br/>
to their gods, and treated them with<br/>
open contempt. They saw that they<br/>
took the stand of open revolt. They<br/>
immediately gave orders to the people<br/>
that the tabu system should be disre-<br/>
garded, the idols committed to the<br/>
flames, and the sacred temples demol-<br/>
ished. (1.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The high priest Hewahewa, having<br/>
resigned his office, was the first to ap-<br/>
ply the torch. Without his co-opera-<br/>
tion the attempt to destroy the old<br/>
system would have been ineffectual.<br/>
Numbers of his profession, joining in<br/>
the enthusiasm, followed his example.<br/>
Kaumualii, having given his sanction,<br/>
idolatry was forever abolished by law,<br/>
and the smoke of heathen sanctuaries<br/>
arose from Hawaii to Kauai. All the<br/>
islands united in a jubilee at their de-<br/>
liverance, and presented the spectacle<br/>
of a nation without a religion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“But civil war was the immediate<br/>
consequence. A principal chief rose,<br/>
with a portion of the people, in a re-<br/>
bellion. A battle was fought on the<br/>
western shores of Hawaii, and the God<br/>
of battles gave victory on the side of<br/>
these innovations. The rebellious chief<br/>
was killed, and the whole mass of the<br/>
people went on with renewed zeal, de-<br/>
stroying the sacred enclosures and<br/>
idols. (2)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liholiho seems to have had no other<br/>
aim in these remarkable proceedings<br/>
than to be freed from restraint upon his<br/>
habits of dissipation; and it is thought<br/>
Kaahumanu, the strong minded dow-<br/>
ager queen favored the changes in order<br/>
to remove unreasonable disabilities<br/>
from her sex. No religious motive seems<br/>
to have had influence with any of them,<br/>
so far without any religion as to be<br/>
really in a less favorable state for self-<br/>
preservation than it was before. But<br/>
an unseen Power, though they knew<br/>
it not, was preparing them for the<br/>
speedy introduction of a better reli-<br/>
gion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gods that used to be worship-<br/>
ed by the people of the Sandwich<br/>
islands were many. They had one de-<br/>
nominated the poison god, another<br/>
the volcano god, another the war god.<br/>
Their idols seem always to have been<br/>
made of wood—generally carved out<br/>
of a hard yellow wood—not larger than<br/>
a lad ten or twelve years old, and hence<br/>
quite portable, so that the chiefs were<br/>
enabled to have a present god in all<br/>
times of great public emergencies away<br/>
from home. It would appear, too, that<br/>
they had them often so small as to be<br/>
conveniently carried in their pockets.<br/>
Kamehameha I. it is said, always had<br/>
an idol of the poison god under his<br/>
pillow at night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their idols generally had some ugly<br/>
resemblance to human beings, but<br/>
some of them were of the most hob-<br/>
gobbling shapes unimaginable. The<br/>
poison god was the figure of a hideous<br/>
human monster of small proportions<br/>
having a wooly head and an open mouth<br/>
showing all its teeth. In its back was<br/>
a small hole for the repository of poison.<br/>
The war god called Taire was repre-<br/>
sented by wicker-work the size of an<br/>
adult man, covered with red feathers<br/>
having a monstrous head with a helmet<br/>
on it, a hideous mouth exhibiting<br/>
dozens of dogs'-teeth, and large eyes<br/>
made of mother of pearl. Another<br/>
god about which we have no means<br/>
of learning its place and power, is the<br/>
figure of a dwarfed man, quite fleshy,<br/>
with a head immensely larger than its<br/>
body, looking much as if it were carry-<br/>
ing a yearling elephant on its head,<br/>
which rests his right fore foot on its<br/>
right hand, and his left or its left hand.<br/>
Another called Luno is simply a pole<br/>
of hard wood ten feet long with a<br/>
small ghostly looking head at one<br/>
end. This would seem to have been<br/>
designed for carrying into battle. It<br/>
is singular that the natives supposed<br/>
Capt Cook, who was murdered by<br/>
them in 1779, an impersonification of<br/>
that god.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were many other idols in use<br/>
among them, only a few months before<br/>
the American missionaries first visited<br/>
the island, but they seem not to have<br/>
been particularly described by any one<br/>
and hence little is known of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It does not appear that the Sandwich<br/>
islanders ever had any molten gods, or<br/>
any made of mason work nor any<br/>
carved from stone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. Dibble's History. 1839 p. 64<br/>
2. Jarvis's History p. 109
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Subversion of Idolatry
In Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would that the principal chiefs of<br/>
Siam with the king at their head could<br/>
be made willing to lay this subject of<br/>
abolishing idolatry close to their<br/>
hearts, and study it with that attention<br/>
which it deserves! Their religion is<br/>
unquestionably as much a system of<br/>
idolatry as that of the Sandwich Islan-<br/>
ders. They worship Buddha through<br/>
the idols they have made to represent<br/>
him. It is certainly no less idolatrous<br/>
to worship a mere man through idols<br/>
of brick and mortar and of brass and<br/>
copper and silver and gold than through<br/>
blocks of wood. That the king of<br/>
Siam and a few of his chiefs are the<br/>
main pillars of the Buddhist idolatry<br/>
in Siam, and that the whole system,<br/>
mighty as it seems to be, would im-<br/>
mediately tumble to ruins if they<br/>
would but resolutely step out from its<br/>
support, there can be no reasonable<br/>
doubt. Nay, let but the king and the<br/>
two Prime Ministers set their hearts<br/>
against it as being a system, good only<br/>
for crushing the temporal and eternal<br/>
interests of its votaries, (which is its<br/>
true character,) and declare distinctly<br/>
that they will no longer give it their<br/>
sanction, they would carry with them<br/>
all other orders and ranks of the civil<br/>
power of Siam, and the whole mass of<br/>
the priesthood besides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nay more, we think that we have<br/>
abundant evidence from our long ob-<br/>
servation of Siamese princes and lords,<br/>
priests and people to show that such<br/>
is their dependence on the lead of their<br/>
king, and such their confidence in his<br/>
learning and wisdom, that he could<br/>
himself alone subvert Buddhism in<br/>
Siam, by simply showing that he has<br/>
lost all confidence in it, and is deter-<br/>
mined no longer to support it by his<br/>
influence. Grant that idolatry in Siam<br/>
is far more powerful than that at the<br/>
Sandwich Islands; but is not the king<br/>
of Siam a far more powerful monarch<br/>
than king Liholiho! And is not the<br/>
former as able to do the greater work<br/>
as the latter was the smaller? It is re-<br/>
corded that when king Liholiho gave<br/>
his assent to the abolishing of idolatry<br/>
in his kingdom—-“the work was<br/>
done”—-that the high priest then resig-<br/>
ned his office, and was the first to ap-<br/>
ply the torch to the work which burnt<br/>
up all the idols and demolished all<br/>
their sacred temples. It was only the<br/>
assent of the king, and then the chiefs<br/>
and priests and people acted accor-<br/>
ding to their own free will, without an<br/>
order from the throne, and subverted<br/>
their idolatry as it were in a single day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now we think that the king of Siam<br/>
would have to do but little more than<br/>
give his assent, and the princes, lords,<br/>
priests, and people would by a great<br/>
majority go, even unbidden by their<br/>
king, to the work of opposing Buddh-<br/>
ism. Such a reformation as this would<br/>
doubtless create some opposition, but<br/>
it would, in our opinion, be that of<br/>
the puny arm of an old sick man to<br/>
one in all the vigor and strength of<br/>
manhood—yes a manhood armed with<br/>
the favor and blessing of the only<br/>
true and Almighty God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hence we feel constrained by his<br/>
Spirit to add, that the most fearful<br/>
responsibility is now resting on the<br/>
shoulders of His Majesty the king of<br/>
Siam, for it is he, single-handed, that is<br/>
leading all orders and ranks of his<br/>
people in the idolatry of Buddhism;<br/>
and as it is most certainly the road to<br/>
ruin temporal and eternal, eternal<br/>
justice will hold him responsible for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Recorder.-—We have been<br/>
much interested in looking over the<br/>
IX. chapter of First Kings, on one of<br/>
your last pages. It is an excellent<br/>
article and must do good. We hope<br/>
“Young Siam” may be “set a think-<br/>
ing” as well as “reading.” And we<br/>
have no doubt the author of First and<br/>
Second Kings, whoever it may be,<br/>
will do the whole subject justice in<br/>
due time; but as we happen to have<br/>
a thought on the same subject, and<br/>
as we live in too fast an age to wait<br/>
on other people to pen our thoughts,<br/>
so we may as well scribble them down<br/>
ourselves for the benefit of “all whom<br/>
it may concern.” Well, our idea is<br/>
this—-In this thing of Education, we<br/>
do verily believe that “Old Siam,”<br/>
“Young Siam,” Missionaries and all<br/>
have gotten hold of it at the wrong<br/>
end altogether. Some one says, “give<br/>
me the first ten years of a child’s life<br/>
and after that do what you please with<br/>
him.” Now in all ordinary cases, in<br/>
this country as in every other who,<br/>
has the first ten years of every child’s<br/>
life time? The mother, to a very<br/>
great extent. Then we would say, by<br/>
all means train the mothers. If either<br/>
sex must be neglected let it be the<br/>
male sex, and let those who are to be<br/>
the future mothers in Siam be edu-<br/>
cated. Give them good schools where<br/>
they will be trained to *Industry,*<br/>
*Cleanliness, Pure morality, and True*<br/>
*religion,* and let these schools be made<br/>
pleasant, cheerful and honorable homes<br/>
where they can live and learn and<br/>
work, and there let them be *trained,*<br/>
not a few months, nor a few years,<br/>
but if possible from infancy to old<br/>
age. When we see schools of this<br/>
kind scattered all over the country<br/>
then we will begin to feel that there<br/>
is “a step in the right direction.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You say that “the children run<br/>
about the streets learning vice and<br/>
idleness &c.” Very true. And why<br/>
is this? Simply because the mother,<br/>
under whose care they are, is herself,<br/>
in a great majority of cases, idle and<br/>
vicious, a mere slave to the caprices<br/>
and passions of her master; her mind<br/>
almost a perfect blank, she has no dis-<br/>
position, no motive sufficient to induce<br/>
her to give any attention to the train-<br/>
ing of her children, and the result is,<br/>
as might be expected, they grow up<br/>
most woefully ignorant of anything<br/>
either useful or honorable. And this<br/>
is not the case because Siamese wo-<br/>
men are naturally or necessarily a<br/>
stupid and lazy kind of beings. We<br/>
speak what we do know, when we say<br/>
that where they have an opportunity<br/>
of learning, they will compare favora-<br/>
bly with females of other countries in<br/>
reading as well as various kinds of<br/>
plain and fancy work. Neither is it<br/>
because there is not plenty of suitable<br/>
work to employ every female in the<br/>
country. Why not manufacture the<br/>
silk, cotton, and hemp of the country<br/>
here, rather than sell the raw material<br/>
at half price and send it elsewhere to<br/>
be made into cloth? And why are<br/>
we, in this city, compelled to pay Chi-<br/>
namen tailors and mantua-makers, two<br/>
or three prices for what the Siamese<br/>
would do at reasonable rates if they<br/>
only knew how to do it? Just be-<br/>
cause the weight of custom, for cen-<br/>
turies past, is crushing this people<br/>
down, and no one takes them by the<br/>
hand and helps them to throw it off.<br/>
This pressure must be removed, and<br/>
woman here must be taught that she<br/>
is something more than a mere thing,<br/>
and that her rice and betel is not her<br/>
whole object in life. She must be<br/>
taught that she can learn to read, and<br/>
learn to think, and learn to train her<br/>
children for a life of usefulness and<br/>
happiness. But this is a great work,<br/>
and how can it be done? The Gov-<br/>
ernment can do it, and may we not<br/>
hope that ere long it will do something<br/>
in this direction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The King is the Father of his<br/>
people” and has an interest in their<br/>
welfare and happiness, and what you<br/>
say in his praise is justly his due; but<br/>
this he is doing for his sons—he has<br/>
daughters too, and as a tender loving<br/>
father he must give them a share in<br/>
that rich inheritance—a good education<br/>
—not simply an education of the mind,<br/>
but an education physical, mental, and<br/>
moral.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several generations will probably<br/>
pass away before woman in Siam will<br/>
find her proper place beside her broth-<br/>
er and husband—his equal and com-<br/>
panion in all things—still the time<br/>
has certainly come when something<br/>
decided and energetic should be un-<br/>
dertaken to elevate her position in so-<br/>
ciety. “Show me woman’s place in<br/>
society, and I will show you that na-<br/>
tion’s place in civilization.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
H.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAUM KLAU.
CHAPTER X.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the king received the crown<br/>
he promised to protect Buddhism.<br/>
The more's the pity—-Buddhism is<br/>
the great millstone, that is dragging<br/>
down the whole nation. It is a spell<br/>
upon them, which forbids their rising<br/>
up as a strong and great nation. They<br/>
must be puny as a necessity, while<br/>
they cling to a false religion and bow<br/>
down to false gods. The very reli-<br/>
gion dwarfs them. How can they,<br/>
while they worship a mere mortal like<br/>
themselves, have a grasping, expan-<br/>
ding, comprehending influence, that<br/>
includes all time and all races. It is<br/>
only pure Christianity, the religion<br/>
that reveals the ever-living, ever-pre-<br/>
sent, all-powerful Jehovah, which forms<br/>
the basis for expansive thoughts and<br/>
expansive enterprises.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have only to glance at history<br/>
to prove this assertion. All, that have<br/>
found their impetus from any other<br/>
source, have been selfish, grasping, and<br/>
oppressive. If they have cherished<br/>
any virtue, it has been with the spirit<br/>
of the stern old Roman, who could<br/>
plunge the dagger into the heart of a<br/>
daughter to save her from a tyrants<br/>
will, or that of a beautiful Lucretia<br/>
who could murder herself to wipe out<br/>
the plague spot of sin. The very acts<br/>
are commentaries on the times, mur-<br/>
der was a little thing. Tyranny stalk-<br/>
ed abroad unabashed. Purity was<br/>
cherished for the Roman women, but<br/>
the nobility knew no law but the gra-<br/>
tification of their own whims. It is<br/>
the old story over again. Unbridled<br/>
selfishness in the great. The strong<br/>
oppressing the weak.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
God did not make one law for man<br/>
and another for woman. They are<br/>
both subjects of the same law and<br/>
held accountable at the same tribunal.<br/>
And no nation will be really good, till<br/>
the axe is laid at the root of the tree,<br/>
and the great become good and pro-<br/>
tect the weak. Shall a man covet<br/>
what is true and good and pure, and<br/>
shall a woman, with finer sensibilities<br/>
naturally, have no care for the kind<br/>
of character she takes to her heart and<br/>
lives to serve! Out upon the princi-<br/>
ple, that man may be a libertine and<br/>
still smile, and smile and be respected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the light of all other religions<br/>
and all other codes of morals, christi-<br/>
anity is most beautifully complete and<br/>
excellent. That it emanated from in-<br/>
finite wisdom, breathes on its every<br/>
page. The thoughts even must be<br/>
pure, and high and low, rich and poor,<br/>
weak and strong, obey the supreme<br/>
will, and obey alike.—-God being mer-<br/>
ciful to those who most need commis-<br/>
eration. The law of pure Christianity<br/>
is love. Love God first and thy fel-<br/>
low men as thyself. Revenge is Sata-<br/>
nic—-Forgiveness Godlike—-”Neither<br/>
do I condemn you go and sin no more.”<br/>
So says perfect love. Do as God com-<br/>
mands and you must seek the good<br/>
of all men every where. Their spiri-<br/>
tual, intellectual and physical good, and<br/>
those who have followed the bible<br/>
must nearly as their law have been<br/>
most expansively benevolent, most<br/>
universally useful, and highest in the<br/>
scale of being. This assertion cannot<br/>
be disproved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John Wickliff, Martin Luther, and<br/>
the pilgrims of Plymouth rock, struck<br/>
the same leading notes. The bible<br/>
in the hand of every man as the law<br/>
of his life, and education for every<br/>
man, to help him to grasp his duties, and<br/>
do them well. These men gave type<br/>
to the nations where they lived, and<br/>
influence, and as the result, they have<br/>
secured for their people a higher<br/>
standpoint and more wonderful results<br/>
than antiquity ever know or the most<br/>
boastful of other nations ever dream-<br/>
ed of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Greece and Rome have been land-<br/>
ed for their greatness and their accom-<br/>
plishments, but selfishness was their<br/>
impetus, and oppression their handi-<br/>
work. Their riches were the riches<br/>
of the few and the degradation of the<br/>
masses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the early history of Greece, dis-<br/>
cipline of the young was greatly insis-<br/>
ted upon. But to cheat adroitly was<br/>
taught as among the first virtues and<br/>
almost necessarily so, as it was the<br/>
purpose of the nation to rear a nation<br/>
of warriors and war thrives by success-<br/>
ful stratagem. They had no principles<br/>
to preserve their country in peace and<br/>
prosperity. Deterioration is necessa-<br/>
rily the result of aggressive war. The<br/>
seeds of degradation are in the very<br/>
result of aggression, and degradation<br/>
followed in Greece and proved her ruin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rome is the same tale over again,<br/>
either as it was while paganism reign-<br/>
ed or after it had adopted impure<br/>
christianity. During the reign of im-<br/>
pure christianity, the masses were<br/>
left degraded, that they might blindly<br/>
follow the will of those who ruled over<br/>
them. It matters little whether a po-<br/>
litical ruler or a pope leads blindly an<br/>
ignorant multitude.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Christianity, as taught by the un-<br/>
adulterated Word, allows no one to be<br/>
great except by great service. And<br/>
he that would be greatest must be ser-<br/>
vant of all. The king is but the great-<br/>
est public servant who must live and<br/>
think and act not for the best good of the<br/>
people. The good of the people is the<br/>
“Summum bonum” and the people<br/>
should be taught to give cheerfully and<br/>
liberally for value received. The king<br/>
and his officials give protection and<br/>
service, and a servant is worthy of<br/>
his hire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With these principles carried out a<br/>
nation must inevitably thrive. It is a<br/>
system linked by indissoluble cords,<br/>
binding all classes together and mak-<br/>
ing the interests of all classes mutual-<br/>
ly beneficial. Onward and upward<br/>
must be the progress of these princi-<br/>
ples till the perfect day. They are<br/>
worthy to have universal sway, and<br/>
God's word has gone forth which<br/>
knows no hindrance. “The kingdoms<br/>
of this world shall become the king-<br/>
doms of our Lord.” Siam will become<br/>
a christian country, and Siamese kings<br/>
protect christianity. The only prob-<br/>
lem unsolved is, when shall these<br/>
things be? Who shall have the plea-<br/>
sure of seeing the work of God<br/>
prosper!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE British Steamer Seewoox, left<br/>
for Singapore, on the 5th inst., hav-<br/>
ing the following passengers, viz:—<br/>
G. H. KENNEDY Esq. P. PICKEN-<br/>
PACK Esq. V. PICKENPACK Esq. J. S.<br/>
BARLOW Esq. MRS. SWAN, AND. MRS.<br/>
SHANAHAN. Also 5 European and 50 na-<br/>
tives, deck passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the the king left on<br/>
the 10th inst. with a numerous retinue<br/>
for a trip to Nakawn Sawan. It is un-<br/>
derstood that he will be absent seven<br/>
days. Hence he will return in time to<br/>
observe his birthday on the 18th as<br/>
usual. It will be the 63d anniversary<br/>
of his birth. We hope that he will<br/>
this year have the celebration so ar-<br/>
ranged as that he and all his foreign<br/>
friends may be well pleased.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that the King of CHEANG-<br/>
MAI is to start on his return home on<br/>
the 14th inst., and expects to be 60<br/>
days on the journey.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The usual season for the king to<br/>
commence his annual visitations of the<br/>
temples will occur on the 8th of the<br/>
11th waning moon, which is Thursday<br/>
the 1st of November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. Alabaster Esq. and lady left, as we<br/>
are informed, last Wednesday in a<br/>
Siamese steamer for on airing in the<br/>
gulf and are to be absent six days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The day for renewing the oath of<br/>
allegiance to the king of Siam was on<br/>
Sunday the 7th inst. All Siamese<br/>
princes, lords, nobles, petty magistrates<br/>
in and about the city, had then to go<br/>
with each his retinue, numbering from<br/>
ten to fifty, and drink water and sprink-<br/>
le their faces with that in which stood<br/>
swords, daggers, spears, guns etc.<br/>
with which the king executes vengeance<br/>
upon them who rebel against him. The<br/>
priests are all excused from this service<br/>
by virtue of the sanctity of their office.<br/>
Many thousand were out in their best<br/>
attire on that day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ROBBERY.—-On the night of the 6th<br/>
instant, the store of Messrs A. Ey-<br/>
moud, D. Henry & Co. was broken op-<br/>
en, and a large amount of jewelry<br/>
stolen from it, consisting of gold and<br/>
gilded watches, gold watch chains,<br/>
keys, finger rings, lockets, gilt and sil-<br/>
ver spoons, and forks, tobacco boxes,<br/>
German silver spoons and forks, spect-<br/>
acles, broaches etc. We are glad to<br/>
be able to report that the thief was<br/>
arrested on the 9th inst. and much of<br/>
the stolen property secured. Our in-<br/>
formants say that the transgressor was<br/>
formerly a favored Siamese servant in<br/>
the family of His Excellency the late<br/>
Phya Sooriwong-Montree—that he<br/>
confessed his guilt at once, and has<br/>
been severely punished by castigation.<br/>
What more is to be done to him we<br/>
are not informed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ASSAULT AND BATTERY.-—At this<br/>
late date we have first heard of a case<br/>
of Assault and Battery which is said<br/>
to have occurred more than 10 days<br/>
since on the Charonkroong street (the<br/>
new road) in the rear of the American<br/>
Consulate. It appears that one of<br/>
the Boat-servants of the Am. Consul<br/>
on going out to the street near the<br/>
Consulate, was assailed by a Chinese<br/>
ruffian who thrust a fish spear of three<br/>
prongs into his side, making a severe<br/>
wound. The Constable, or Jailor of<br/>
the Consulate, came immediately to<br/>
his rescue and was himself wounded<br/>
with a fish spear weilded by another<br/>
Chinaman connected with the same<br/>
gang, all of whom were interested in<br/>
a gambling establishment near by. Our<br/>
informant says, that J. M. Hood Esqr.<br/>
Am. Consul came out quickly and<br/>
caused three of the gang to be arrest-<br/>
ed, and that the trial of the case is<br/>
now pending in the International<br/>
court.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MAN SHOOTING.—-Another very fear-<br/>
ful case of quarrelling, we are sorry to<br/>
report, occurred on the evening of the<br/>
7th inst, between two Europeans on<br/>
the same notorious street Charon<br/>
Kroong in the rear of the French<br/>
Consulate. The persons engaged in<br/>
it were Mr.Cordeiro Clerk, a Portuguese<br/>
and Capt. Schmidt a Bremen. All<br/>
reports appear to agree that there had<br/>
been a quarrel between them of some<br/>
days standing about a small sum of<br/>
money, less than two dollars, which<br/>
Mr. Cordiero insisted was his due but<br/>
which Captain Schmidt denied, and that<br/>
several sharp altercations had been<br/>
between them before that evening.<br/>
One class of reporters say, that Capt<br/>
S., in passing Mr. Cordeiro's house<br/>
that evening, was addressed with<br/>
abusive language by the latter, and<br/>
that Captain Schmidt answered it<br/>
by a fling of his cane into the window<br/>
where Mr. Cordiero was sitting, upon<br/>
which the latter took up his revolver<br/>
and discharged three shots at<br/>
Captain Schmidt which lodged two<br/>
balls in his thigh. Another report is<br/>
that Capt. Schmidt in the heat of his<br/>
anger made an effort to burst the door<br/>
into Mr. Cordiero's room, but failing,<br/>
went out before the house and abused<br/>
the latter with vile language, and that<br/>
this was the proximate cause of his<br/>
shooting Capt. Schmidt. From our<br/>
long acquaintance with Mr. Cordiero<br/>
we could scarcely have dreamed that<br/>
he would ever, except in sheer self-de<br/>
fence, in imminent danger, have ventured<br/>
to use his revolver as he did. But<br/>
there is no telling what a man may<br/>
not be tempted to do under strong<br/>
provocation in an unguarded moment.<br/>
We have no knowledge of the charac-<br/>
ter of Captain Schmidt. We under-<br/>
stand that Mr. Cordeiro has been ar-<br/>
rested by order of the Portuguese<br/>
consul and has confessed that he did<br/>
the deed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS is to inform the public, that<br/>
during my absence in China on<br/>
business, about seven months, in the<br/>
fore part of the present year, my<br/>
wife, Nang In, called by me Jennie,<br/>
was enticed, through the influence of<br/>
Me Lai, wife of Arnal Duclos, to leave<br/>
my house, taking with her, jewels,<br/>
necklaces, finger rings &c. valued at<br/>
$900, all belonging to me, and went<br/>
to live as the wife of Mr. Fisher, an<br/>
English man, employed as foreman in<br/>
the Printing office of the King of Siam.<br/>
I am myself a British subject, born<br/>
and educated at Penang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The Chinese Baker.
Established on the new street
Charon Kroong.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Extract from a Sermon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
By H. W. BEECHER.
Preached from 1st Cor. 7. 29, 30.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Shall we then mourn? What is depart-<br/>
ing? What is dying? What is death? Is<br/>
there any place where we need to stand<br/>
more than by the side of the grave? And<br/>
ought we not to learn, looking upon the<br/>
sepulcher, to say, "Thou holdest only the<br/>
physical body," and to mourn as though we<br/>
mourned not; and, looking upon death to<br/>
say, "Thou, death, art thyself dead?" For<br/>
is not dying as much a part of God's<br/>
mercy as being born? When the apple-<br/>
tree blossoms you laugh, and you do not<br/>
cry when you pick the apple; but when<br/>
man blossoms, man laughs; and then,<br/>
when God picks the fruit, he cries. Fool<br/>
that understands so little! When will you<br/>
recognize that which constitutes your<br/>
highest good? Glorious is the hour in<br/>
which God says, "Come up hither;" and<br/>
yet you look upon that hour with fear<br/>
and dread.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Long before winter would let me plant<br/>
out of doors, I planted under glass, and<br/>
depended upon artificial heat, and waited<br/>
for the time when I might remove my early<br/>
plants. And, as soon as I dared, I set them<br/>
in the open air in some sheltered noak<br/>
where the frosts should not touch them.<br/>
But now, in these June days, I have<br/>
taken them into the broad, exposed gar-<br/>
den, and put them where they are to<br/>
stand and blossom: and they did not<br/>
weep when I put them there.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now God has raised us under glass,<br/>
and nurtured us there, that we might bear<br/>
transplanting in another and better sphere;<br/>
and when he comes, and takes us, and<br/>
plants us out in his open garden, is that<br/>
the time for us to cry? Beloved, ye are<br/>
the sons of God; and when the bell<br/>
strikes, and the angel, hearing the sweet<br/>
sound, flies swiftly to call you to your<br/>
sonship and coronation, is that the time<br/>
for you to cry? Beloved, it doth not yet<br/>
appear what ye are to be; and yet are ye<br/>
so pure and noble and true that men can-<br/>
not bear your going from them? And are<br/>
you lost because all the fragmentary<br/>
developments of your being are taken into<br/>
that higher sphere where they are more,<br/>
not less?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why, your child is not your child till<br/>
you have lost him. That which you can<br/>
put your arms about is that which you<br/>
cannot afford to love. No bird cries<br/>
when the shell is broken and the birdling<br/>
comes forth; or when, a little later, it<br/>
leaves the nest and wings its way through<br/>
the air. Only mothers do that when their<br/>
children, released from earth, fly away<br/>
to a better world. And yet, only are they<br/>
worthy of immortal love when they escape<br/>
from the clog of this mortal state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, let us thank God, not that men<br/>
die, but that they live. So far as it pleases<br/>
God to devolope and endow them here,<br/>
let us be glad; but when they go to live<br/>
in a better realm, let us take the higher<br/>
view, and say, "Thank God that they<br/>
have gone where they shall be perfect;<br/>
that they have blossomed, and are bear-<br/>
ing fruit." Is not this the more Christian<br/>
way?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ah, brethren! we are not Christians<br/>
about dying. Every man is taught to go<br/>
to heaven through the prison of death.<br/>
Everybody feels that to sicken and die is<br/>
to go into Egypt, and into the wilderness.<br/>
We are apt to think of sickness and dying<br/>
as so many horrible, gloomy stages in our<br/>
progress toward the future. But dying<br/>
is a process as simple as the parting of<br/>
the stem from the bough; or as the swing-<br/>
ing of the door that lets one in from the<br/>
wintry blast outside to the pleasant home<br/>
inside. It is not hard to die. It is harder<br/>
a thousand times to live. To die is to be<br/>
a man. To live is only to try to be one.<br/>
To live is to see God through a glass<br/>
darkly. To die is to see him face to face.<br/>
To live is to live in the ore. To die is to<br/>
be smelted and come out pure gold. To<br/>
die is to be in March or November. To<br/>
live is to find midsummer, where there is<br/>
perfect harmony and perfect beauty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let us not mourn, then, as other men.<br/>
Let us mourn as though we mourned not.<br/>
Let us rejoice as though we rejoiced not.<br/>
Let us work as though we worked not.<br/>
Let us love as though we loved not. Let<br/>
us feel that the life that is above is the<br/>
only thing that is worthy of our thought<br/>
and striving. Living for God, for glory.<br/>
and for immortality—-that is life enough.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
N. Y. INDEPENDENT, JULY 12TH.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Queer Robbery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Boston TRANSCRIPT tells of a<br/>
novel instance of robbery in that enter-<br/>
prising town :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few evenings since, as a young gen-<br/>
tleman was walking on the Common, he<br/>
came in contact with a person going in<br/>
another direction. Both begged pardon<br/>
and passed on. A moment after it oc-<br/>
curred to our hero that there might be<br/>
something wrong, and he instinctively<br/>
put his hand to his watch pocket and<br/>
found that his repeater was gone. Turn-<br/>
ing round, he saw the person whom he<br/>
had suddenly met walking at a leisurely<br/>
pace, a short distance from him. Grasp-<br/>
ing his revolver (purchased in garrotting<br/>
times) he ran toward the robber, came<br/>
up to him, drew his pistol and placed it<br/>
in uncomfortable contact with his head,<br/>
and, in language more forcible than<br/>
elegant, demanded his gold hunter, as-<br/>
suring him that, should he hesitate an in-<br/>
stant, he should pull the trigger and<br/>
cause a miscellaneous scattering of his<br/>
brains thereabouts. The supposed robber<br/>
unhesitatingly took out a watch, gave it<br/>
to his dangerous opponent, and got out<br/>
of his way as quickly as possible. With<br/>
infinite satisfaction and thankfulness the<br/>
young gentleman put the watch into his<br/>
pocket, and in a fervor of excitement at<br/>
his adventure walked home. On his arrival<br/>
there his mother noticed the excitement<br/>
which he was under, and asked him the<br/>
reason of it, whereupon he narrated to<br/>
her the circumstances of the robbery, and<br/>
recovery of his watch. “Why,” said she,<br/>
“your watch is in your room, where you<br/>
left it after changing your clothes before<br/>
you went out!” The young man was<br/>
dumbfounded, took out the watch from<br/>
his pocket with a spasmodic twitch, and<br/>
on beholding it became still more excited,<br/>
for it was not his! He went to his room<br/>
and found his own watch where he had<br/>
left it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He looked into the glass and saw a<br/>
highway robber. Visions of policemen,<br/>
handcuffs, Police Court, Superior Cri-<br/>
minal Court, Judge Russell, a light<br/>
sentence in the State prison for the first<br/>
offence, &c., crowded into his imagination<br/>
in uncomfortable and regular order. As<br/>
soon as possible, however, he advertised<br/>
his ill-gotten watch, took other measures,<br/>
hoping to live to ask the pardon of his<br/>
victim, whom he unintentionally robbed,<br/>
but at last accounts nothing had been<br/>
heard of him, so that he fears he may be<br/>
compelled to keep the watch as a trophy<br/>
of a mutual fright.—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BED BUGS—-If any of your readers<br/>
need a sure remedy for bed-bugs, they<br/>
can have mine, and cleanse the house of<br/>
this troublesome vermin, with very little<br/>
expense. They have only to wash with<br/>
salt and water, filling the cracks where<br/>
they frequent with salt, and you may<br/>
look in vain for them. Salt seems inim-<br/>
ical to bed-bugs, and they will not trail<br/>
through it. I think it preferable to ALL<br/>
“ointments,” and the buyer requires no<br/>
certificate as to its genuineness.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rising young Statesman.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the name—George Joachim<br/>
Goschen—-of the rising young statesman<br/>
of England, the report being generally<br/>
credited that Earl Russell has invited<br/>
him to a seat in the Cabinet. He is but<br/>
thirty-four years of age, which makes<br/>
his brilliant promotion quite exceptional<br/>
in England, although William Pitt was<br/>
Prime Minister at the age of twenty-<br/>
four. But that was at a time when poli-<br/>
tical life was not settled in England as it<br/>
is now, and Mr. Pitt was the son of the<br/>
most popular man in the kingdom. Mr.<br/>
Goschen, though born in England, is of<br/>
German descent, and his grandfather<br/>
kept a book-stall at Leipsic Fair. He<br/>
graduated with high honors at Oxford,<br/>
and went into the banking business in<br/>
London, where he has made a fortune,<br/>
besides acting as a Director of the Bank<br/>
of England, and writing an excellent<br/>
treatise on political economy. Mr. Gos-<br/>
chen entered Parliament in 1863 as mem-<br/>
ber from the city of London, and at the<br/>
last election he was returned at the head<br/>
of the poll. He won high rank among<br/>
the best Parliamentary debaters, and was<br/>
one of Mr. Gladstone’s confidential ad-<br/>
visers. Whether he can sustain the high<br/>
promises of his future public career, re-<br/>
mains to be seen, the best guaranty of<br/>
such a result being afforded in the solid<br/>
and well merited honors he has achieved<br/>
thus far. He could hardly have done<br/>
better if he had grown up under our<br/>
own liberal institutions. This reminds us<br/>
to say that Mr. Goschen has been a true<br/>
friend of our country. He refused to<br/>
have anything to do with the confederate<br/>
loan; and in his general Parliamentary<br/>
career has stood with much advanced<br/>
Liberals as Mr. Bright and Mr. Foster,<br/>
the former of whom it is said to have<br/>
heartily recommended his elevation to<br/>
the Cabinet.—-Pacific.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tobacco and Madness.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If anything can restrain our young<br/>
men from the pernicious habit of tobac-<br/>
co smoking and chewing, it may be in<br/>
such warnings as are contained in the re-<br/>
ports of their terrible results in France :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From 1812 to 1832, the tobacco tax in<br/>
France produced 28,000,000 francs, and<br/>
the lunatic asylums contained 8,000<br/>
patients. The tobacco revenue has now<br/>
reached 180,000,000, while there are 44,<br/>
000 paralytic and lunatic patients in the<br/>
hospitals ; showing that the increase of<br/>
lunacy has kept pace with the increase of<br/>
the revenue of tobacco. These statistics,<br/>
presented by M. Jolly to the Academy<br/>
of Science, in connection with the closing<br/>
words of his speech, containing a fright-<br/>
ful warning to those forming the perni-<br/>
cious habit of smoking, now increasing<br/>
so rapidly : "The immoderate use of to-<br/>
bacco, and more especially of the pipe,<br/>
produce a weakness of the brain and in<br/>
the spinal marrow, which causes mad-<br/>
ness."—-PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
VATTEL, the great veterinary of the<br/>
continent, states that the rate of pulsa-<br/>
tion of different domestic animals of the<br/>
farm is as follows : The horse, 32 to 38<br/>
pulsations per minute ; an ox or cow, 25<br/>
to 42 ; a sheep, 72 to 79 ; the ass, 48 to<br/>
54 ; the goat, 72 to 76 ; the dog, 90 to<br/>
100 ; the cat, 110 to 120 ; the rabbit, 120 ;<br/>
the guinea pig, 140 ; the hen, 140, and<br/>
the duck, 135.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LAYING MACHINES.-—I have tried the<br/>
plan of feeding hens with lard and meal,<br/>
to make them lay, and can say there is<br/>
nothing like it. Hens are laying-ma-<br/>
chines ; grease the machine and it will<br/>
work well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SPIRITUALISM EXPOSED.—Sothern, the<br/>
actor, having been called a spiritualist,<br/>
pronounces the allegation unfounded.<br/>
He says that he belonged to a party of<br/>
twelve professional gentlemen formed<br/>
for the purpose of a thorough, practical,<br/>
and exhaustive investigation of the<br/>
phenomena of “spiritualism.” They were<br/>
quite ready for either result-—to believe<br/>
it if it were true ; to reject it if found<br/>
false. For more than two years they had<br/>
weekly meetings. At length by practice,<br/>
they succeeded in producing all the won-<br/>
derful “manifestations” of the profes-<br/>
sional “media,” but other effects still<br/>
more startling. They got signatures of<br/>
Shakspeare, Garrick, and other celeb-<br/>
rated personages ; produced spirit hands<br/>
and forms ; and made people float in the<br/>
air or rather made spectators believe so.<br/>
Professional mediums witnessed their<br/>
feats and avowed their superior power<br/>
over the “spirits.” But the spirits had<br/>
nothing to do with the phenomena. They<br/>
were accomplished by other means.—-<br/>
MORNING STAR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Tyranny of Fashion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We all know there is no more imperious<br/>
despot than fashion. In our own country,<br/>
a century ago, the heads of little boys of<br/>
four were shaved, and they were made to<br/>
wear wigs like their fathers. The highest<br/>
authorities contended that wigs were much<br/>
cleaner than the natural hair. Within the<br/>
remembrance of many persons now living,<br/>
the wearing of a beard was considered as<br/>
not only slovenly, but as a positive ruffi-<br/>
anism. No man was looked upon with<br/>
favor until he had removed every vestige<br/>
of the hair which should have protected<br/>
his throat. The great change that has oc-<br/>
curred in this respect is obvious to all.<br/>
We may look for equal modifications in<br/>
the present absurd inconvenient dress<br/>
worn by the women of the present day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are by no means advocates of Bloom-<br/>
erism. Neither would we counsel any lady<br/>
to attempt to put at defiance the customs<br/>
of the day. One can avoid foolish extremes<br/>
without running into their opposites and<br/>
becoming a public laughing stock. Our<br/>
fashionable ladies would do well to re-<br/>
member that the wearing of trousers is no<br/>
more foolish—perhaps much less so—than<br/>
trailing a yard of costly silk or satin<br/>
through the mud and filth of the streets.<br/>
A skirt, of moderate dimensions, is at least<br/>
no more immodest than a hoop distended<br/>
over fifteen or twenty feet in circumfor-<br/>
ence, every movement of which reveals<br/>
those limbs which it is thought very inde-<br/>
cent for the Bloomers to cover with pan-<br/>
taloons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
American women, instead of copying<br/>
the extravagancies of Parisian prostitutes,<br/>
would do well to adopt some simple, easy,<br/>
and convenient mode of dress. It need not<br/>
be strikingly at variance with what they<br/>
have always worn, yet it should be free<br/>
from absurdities of length, breadth and<br/>
adornment. They would thus save money,<br/>
add to their charms, increase the esteem<br/>
of the men, and what is better, have more<br/>
self-respect.—-CIN. GAZETTE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Italy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Kingdom of Italy has an area of<br/>
98,784 English square miles, with a po-<br/>
pulation, according to the last census,<br/>
taken in the spring of 1864, of 21,703,-<br/>
710 souls, being on an average 220 in-<br/>
habitants to the square mile, a figure<br/>
higher than that of France and Germany,<br/>
but lower than that of England. There<br/>
has been in some of the Provinces a rapid<br/>
increase of population of late years; but<br/>
the increase of wealth has been much<br/>
more rapid within the last century than<br/>
the increase of population. The great<br/>
mass of the people are devoted to agri-<br/>
cultural pursuits, and the town popula-<br/>
tion is comparatively small. It has a<br/>
seafaring population of 158,692 individ-<br/>
uals, nearly all of whom are liable to the<br/>
maritime conscription. The military or-<br/>
ganization of the Kingdom is based on<br/>
conscription, and the standing army con-<br/>
sists of more than 200,000 men on a<br/>
peace footing, and more than 400,000 on<br/>
a war establishment. The navy of the<br/>
Kingdom consisted in 1865 of 98 steam-<br/>
ers of 20,760 horse power, with 2,160<br/>
guns, and 17 sailing vessels with 279<br/>
guns; altogether, 115 men of war with<br/>
2,439 guns. Italy has a public debt of<br/>
nearly eight hundred millions of dollars.<br/>
The expenditure is largely in excess of<br/>
the annual revenue. The reigning Sov-<br/>
ereign, Victor Emanuel II., was born<br/>
March 14, 1820, and is the eldest son of<br/>
King Charles Albert of Sardinia, and the<br/>
Archduchess Theresa of Austria. He<br/>
succeeded to the throne on the abdication<br/>
of his father, March 23, 1849, and was<br/>
proclaimed King of Italy by vote of the<br/>
Italian Parliament, March 17, 1861.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The German Confederation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The German Confederation was organ-<br/>
ized, in 1815, upon the ruins of the Ger-<br/>
man Empire which had been dissolved in<br/>
1806. The object of the Confederacy,<br/>
according to the first article of the Fed-<br/>
eral Constitution, is "the preservation of<br/>
the internal and external security of Ger-<br/>
many, and the independence and invio-<br/>
lability of the various German States."<br/>
The organ and representative of the Con-<br/>
federation is the Federal Diet, consisting<br/>
of Plenipotentiaries of the several Ger-<br/>
man States, and permanently located in<br/>
the free city of Frankfort. The admin-<br/>
istrative Government of the Federal Diet<br/>
is constituted in two forms: 1st. As a<br/>
GENERAL ASSEMBLY or PLENUM, in which<br/>
every member of the Confederation has<br/>
at least one vote, and the larger States<br/>
have two, three or four votes each; and<br/>
second, the Minor council, or Committee<br/>
of Confederation, in which the eleven<br/>
largest States cast one vote each, while<br/>
six votes are given to the smaller States,<br/>
a number of them combined having a<br/>
joint vote. The Presidency is perman-<br/>
ently vested in Austria. The General<br/>
Assembly decides on war and peace, on<br/>
the admission of new members, on any<br/>
changes in the fundamental laws or or-<br/>
ganic institutions; but in all other cases<br/>
the Minor Council is competent to act<br/>
both as legislative and executive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the time of its establishment the<br/>
Confederacy embraced 39 members, but<br/>
of these four (Saxe-Gotha, Anhalt-Bern-<br/>
berg, Anhalt-Koethen and Hesse-Hom-<br/>
burg,) have become extinct, and two,<br/>
(Hohenzollern-Hechingen, and Hohen-<br/>
zollern-Sigmaringen) have been incor-<br/>
porated with Prussia, leaving, at present,<br/>
33 sovereign States. They have together<br/>
an area of 242,867 square miles, and, in<br/>
1864, a population of 46,000,000 people,<br/>
exceeding the aggregate population of<br/>
British America, the United States, Mex-<br/>
ico, and Central America, and being in<br/>
Europe inferior to that of no country<br/>
except Russia. The Federal army num-<br/>
bers about 700,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria and Prussia belong, with only<br/>
a part of their several dominions, to this<br/>
Confederation; Austria with a population<br/>
of 12,802,944, Prussia with a population<br/>
of 14,714,024. Prussia, therefore, and<br/>
not Austria, is in point of population the<br/>
first German State, and this priority is<br/>
still more prominent if we take into ac-<br/>
count the provinces of both powers not<br/>
belonging to this Confederation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Deducting the population of the two<br/>
great German powers, population is left<br/>
for the other States of about 19,000,000,<br/>
with a Federal Army of about 300,000.<br/>
As the record of the votes of the Federal<br/>
Diet during the last year shows the great<br/>
majority of the minor States side with, or<br/>
at least lean towards Austria, and it is<br/>
still commonly believed, that soon after<br/>
an outbreak of war between Austria and<br/>
Prussia, the Diet will declare a Federal<br/>
war against Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All parties in Germany, Austria, Prus-<br/>
sia, the Minor Governments, and all the<br/>
political parties among the people, are in<br/>
favor of establishing a Central National<br/>
Parliament, as a step toward the ultimate<br/>
establishment of one German Empire.<br/>
This point is, therefore, likely to be one<br/>
of the results of the impending war.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
State of Mandalay before the
Outbreak.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While the struggle for the throne is<br/>
still pending, it may not be uninteresting<br/>
to our readers, to give the ideas of one<br/>
of the European residents there, as ex-<br/>
pressed two months before the outburst.<br/>
The following are extracts from a pri-<br/>
vate letter, dated Mandalay the 6th of<br/>
June, which we have been favored with<br/>
permission to place before the public,<br/>
but we need scarcely say, that we are in<br/>
no wise responsible for the opinions<br/>
therein expressed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You will, I know, be interested to<br/>
hear how I find the country on my re-<br/>
turn to it. First it is horribly hot, and<br/>
second it is full of lies. Probably the<br/>
last fact accounts for the first, for if<br/>
there be such a thing as paternal affec-<br/>
tion, the Father of lies must have his<br/>
home close to so many children. But<br/>
seriously, it strikes me now more than<br/>
ever it did before, how utterly hollow<br/>
and false is every thing here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Generally, the Revenue and Foreign<br/>
policy question necessarily dovetail into<br/>
each other. The Burmese government is<br/>
mortally afraid of British traders, knows<br/>
it dare not forbid them trading and can-<br/>
not do without the revenue, which the<br/>
trade gives them. They have at last<br/>
contrived a plan to meet the difficulty.<br/>
It is this. Keep out the British mer-<br/>
chant, at the same time that he is warm-<br/>
ly invited, by putting all the trade into<br/>
the hands of Burmese subjects, leaving<br/>
nothing for him to trade in, and make<br/>
the monopolists pay largely for their<br/>
privileges. If the British merchant wants<br/>
the goods, offer them to him at the Ran-<br/>
goon prices. To be monopolists are<br/>
"men of straw," simply the king's pup-<br/>
pets. There is not a large product of<br/>
any kind which is not now monopolized,<br/>
or being monopolized. The country<br/>
people suffer fearfully from this system.<br/>
They are in some cases forbidden to sell<br/>
to foreigners, in others they are simply<br/>
made to understand, that should they<br/>
sell, they will get well punished. They<br/>
are thus compelled to sell below the real<br/>
value, and cultivation is discouraged and<br/>
the peasantry get away, if they can man-<br/>
age it, to British territory. But this is<br/>
not always easy with a wife and children,<br/>
especially if the man has a house and<br/>
land. The corruption and oppression is<br/>
just in proportion to the distance from<br/>
British influence and British ground.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps you have heard of Burman<br/>
earth oil or petroleum. The wells are<br/>
old steady ones, not like the Yankee<br/>
spouts of thousands of gallons per mi-<br/>
nute. The king has leased the product<br/>
to two puppet bankers or "thateys," for<br/>
a sum that makes it cost £1 to these<br/>
thateys, the difference amounting to for-<br/>
ty thousand pounds a year which H. M.<br/>
gets from his own and our Burmese sub-<br/>
jects, who use it for lighting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"With tea, cotton and other products<br/>
the same system is pursued. The treaty<br/>
is in fact commercially a nullity. British<br/>
subjects are by it guaranteed free leave<br/>
to buy and export everything. Practi-<br/>
cally they can get nothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"EXPENDITURE. His majesty has some<br/>
seventy wives, and as many sons and<br/>
daughters. The Crown Prince has a fa-<br/>
mily of similar proportions. Princes and<br/>
Princesses must have diamonds and fine<br/>
clothes. I need not tell you that these<br/>
cost money. The King and Crown<br/>
Prince's private expenses including de-<br/>
pendent's remuneration and so forth can-<br/>
not be less than two thirds of the whole<br/>
revenue. Of the remaining third a great<br/>
portion goes to feed, encourage, and<br/>
lodge in golden monasteries, the most<br/>
consistent, the most harmless and laziest<br/>
set of monks that ever fattened on an<br/>
oppressed people. Where there is so<br/>
little encouragement to be a "man," it is<br/>
no wonder, that so many thousands be-<br/>
come priests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Among the King's private expendi-<br/>
ture is included the cost of immense<br/>
canals, mud walls, and summer palaces,<br/>
all of them suggestive of the play of a<br/>
mere child, regardless of mere cost, aim-<br/>
ing neither at utility nor luxury. The<br/>
whole thing especially, when the minis-<br/>
ters talk of these improvements, forces<br/>
upon one the exclamation, what a fool<br/>
the Ruler must be, and how much big-<br/>
ger fools must his unresisting subjects be.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"With such a Court, it is natural that<br/>
all the provincial offices should be filled<br/>
by those, who can pay best for them<br/>
that is by the men, who engage to press<br/>
the peasantry most effectually.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"With all this, the King is not a bad<br/>
man. On the contrary, at the expense of<br/>
his people's labour and goods, he is a<br/>
massing to himself and immense amount<br/>
of merit for the next world. To this end<br/>
are his erections of pagodas and monas-<br/>
teries, distribution of food to the priests,<br/>
frequent repetition of most excellent<br/>
scriptures, and what is really praise wor-<br/>
thy his endeavour to prevent the taking<br/>
of life. But even in this last point, the<br/>
praise is only partial, for his regard fre-<br/>
quently makes justice miscarry, and every<br/>
now and then takes the most objectiona-<br/>
ble form of depriving foreigners of ani-<br/>
mal food.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"According to the modern Buddhist<br/>
idea, the crime of taking the life of a<br/>
good man, a criminal, and a fowl only<br/>
varies in degrees not in kind. Gautama<br/>
the incarnate Buddh was not so silly, and<br/>
in fact died from a stomach ache caused<br/>
by eating pork. There, by the bye, he<br/>
was wrong for pork is quite unfit for<br/>
human food in a tropical and perhaps in<br/>
all climates. The character of the King<br/>
shows a strange mixture of benevolence,<br/>
and selfishness, of ignoble greed, and ex-<br/>
travagant expenditure.-—RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest Intolligonoe from
Mandalay.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have to tender our thanks to<br/>
Moolah Esmail, for the following tele-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
gram received the evening before last<br/>
from Thayetmyo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Letter from Minlah. King sent or-<br/>
ders to take duties as before. King's<br/>
troops under Atween Woon Kosoh have<br/>
come to Salin. "Yaynansykia is at<br/>
Paghan. Captain Rielly and Engineer<br/>
have deserted her and gone to Mandalay<br/>
King's people are trying to catch the<br/>
Steamer and Rebel princes. The Mag-<br/>
way Myothoogyee has escaped and come<br/>
down here. I hear that all are well at<br/>
Mandalay."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is a most intelligible and a most<br/>
satisfactory telegram. There can be no<br/>
question, that in a few 'days more the<br/>
two rebel Princes will be caught and<br/>
dealt with according to the laws, both of<br/>
God and Man. If they come into Brit-<br/>
ish territory, they stand no chance of es-<br/>
cape. We shall simply regard them as<br/>
Murderers, who are flying from justice.<br/>
Political refugees we are bound in honor<br/>
always to protect, but our Government<br/>
has never yet thrown its protection a-<br/>
round murderers. They will be held<br/>
under surveillance by our police until a<br/>
request is made for them by the King.<br/>
We trust they may remain in their own<br/>
territory, where they will soon fall into<br/>
the hands of the king's troops who have<br/>
been sent after them."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is earnestly hoped, that these trou-<br/>
bles in upper Burmah may result in the<br/>
Burmese Government entering into pro-<br/>
per Treaty relations with our Govern-<br/>
ment. Indeed, that they would recog-<br/>
nize the importance of having a British<br/>
officer of rank as Resident, with a per-<br/>
sonal Assistant and establishment, to<br/>
whose opinion and judgment, the Court<br/>
of Burmah should be bound to give heed<br/>
in matters pertaining to the administra-<br/>
tion of the country, and especially in all<br/>
subjects of trade, and in their relations<br/>
and arrangements with foreign states and<br/>
Governments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On his visit to the Burmese capital,<br/>
during next month, perhaps for it must<br/>
be remembered that the plan has never<br/>
been abandoned His Honor the Chief,<br/>
Commissioner will posses the rare and<br/>
felicitous opportunity of meeting the<br/>
King when just recovering from the<br/>
heavy affliction to which he has been sub-<br/>
jected in the death of the Royal Brother<br/>
and his three eldest sons. The instability<br/>
of human affairs will be apparent to both<br/>
his majesty and the whole Court.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Colonel Phayre's great experience of<br/>
Burmah, to which we have so often allu-<br/>
ded, his feelings of regard for the King,<br/>
and sympathy for the people, and his<br/>
personal statesmanship and tact as a dip-<br/>
lomatist, will now find ample scope in<br/>
effecting needful reforms in the Burmese<br/>
government. It will be impossible for<br/>
the King to hold out any longer against<br/>
good advice tendered to him, and especi-<br/>
ally at the present junctare of public<br/>
affairs in his reign. We should almost<br/>
venture to predict, that His Majesty<br/>
would be willing to adopt every recom-<br/>
mendation which the Chief Commissioner<br/>
may deem it necessary to make. In this<br/>
aspect of the case there is a peculiar<br/>
aptness and force given to the following<br/>
lines taken from the writings of the<br/>
Poet Cowper."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}God moves in a mysterious way,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}His wonders to perform,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}He plants his footsteps in the sea,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And rides upon the storm.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Laziness travels so slowly that pov-<br/>
erty soon overtakes her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Mrs. Dawdle says that one of her<br/>
boys don't know nothing and another<br/>
does. The question is, which knows the<br/>
most.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A celebrated character, who was<br/>
surrounded by enemies, used to remark:<br/>
'They are sparks which, if you do not<br/>
blow, will go out of themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The truly illustrious are they who<br/>
do not want the praise of the world, but<br/>
perform the actions which deserve it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Choice extracts are like burning<br/>
glasses, whose collected rays point with<br/>
warmth and quickness upon the reader's<br/>
heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—An Irishman on being told to grease<br/>
the wagon, returned in about an hour<br/>
afterwards and said, 'I've greased every<br/>
part of the wagon but them STICKS THE<br/>
WHEELS HANG ON.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAI RAWT would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he is prepared to<br/>
paint pictures of the peculiar fruits<br/>
flowers, and leaves of the country in a<br/>
style which he has been encouraged to<br/>
hope will be quite acceptable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His place of residence is on the Ca-<br/>
nal Padoong krasem opposite Wat Kok<br/>
near the ricefields on the east side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prices of the several pictures<br/>
are as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A branch with fruit and flowers is<br/>
1 Tical. But if the buyer takes sev-<br/>
eral pictures of the same kind the<br/>
price will be only ½ of a Tical
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the buyer wishes a compound pic-<br/>
ture of several branches, having several<br/>
kinds of fruit, the price will be 2 Tic-<br/>
als. And if of such pictures several<br/>
be taken the price will be 1½ Ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the purchaser must furnish the<br/>
paper for the pictures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the purchaser wishes to have the<br/>
interior of the fruit represented it shall<br/>
be done
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-11_4_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.<br/>
A N English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.<br/>
"Bangkok, 7th June 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
