---
linkTitle: 'August 30th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 30th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 30th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 57
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, AUGUST 30TH, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 34.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOME interruption to the Indo-Euro-<br/>
pean Telegraph has prevented any late<br/>
telegrams coming on to us by this Mail.<br/>
The Ceylon papers are silent as to the<br/>
cause of the interruption. Bombay Te-<br/>
legrams to the 10th instant have been<br/>
received, but merely say, without giving<br/>
dates, that the news from Europe was<br/>
of a generally cheering nature. The fol-<br/>
lowing have not appeared before:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, JULY 25TH.—-The commence-<br/>
ment of the armistice between Austria<br/>
and Prussia dates from yesterday. A<br/>
great naval engagement has taken place<br/>
in the Adriatic Sea between the Italians<br/>
and Austrians, resulting in the destruc-<br/>
tion of the Italian iron-clad vessels. Both<br/>
sides claim the victory. The negotiations<br/>
for an armistice between the Austrians<br/>
and Italians continue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 25TH.-—Austria and Italy have<br/>
agreed to an Armistice for eight days.<br/>
Breach between Johnston and Congress,<br/>
dissensions in Cabinet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 27TH.—-Government agreed to<br/>
advance conditionally £600,000 to Mad-<br/>
ras Irrigation Company. Reform Riot<br/>
renewed yesterday—-Mob made demands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE following is a summary of news<br/>
by the present Messageries Imperiales<br/>
steamer:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE CHINA EXPRESS, JULY 17.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE COURT.—-The Prince and Princess<br/>
Christian left Osborne for Cherbourg and<br/>
Paris, from thence they proceed to Swit-<br/>
zerland. The Princess Louis of Hesse<br/>
has been again safely confined of a daugh-<br/>
ter. Her Majesty is at Osborne.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARLIAMENT.-—The Ministry have been<br/>
engaged in their re-elections, and the<br/>
Commons have not in consequence been<br/>
able to sit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEGOTIATIONS FOR PEACE.-—Very<br/>
little that can be relied upon is known<br/>
as to the negotiations set on foot by<br/>
France, either as regards an armistice or<br/>
a definitive peace. The Paris Moniteur<br/>
chides the expectant world for its im-<br/>
patience, and points out that the negotia-<br/>
tions cannot go on entirely by telegraph,<br/>
and that it takes a courier three days and<br/>
three nights to pass from Paris to the<br/>
Prussian head-quarters. The Vienna<br/>
Press, however, states that the propos-<br/>
ed mediation of the Emperor Napoleon<br/>
is for the present at an end.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE WAR IN GERMANY.—-The Battle<br/>
of Koniggratz, fought on the 3rd inst.,<br/>
and noticed in our last issue, of the 10th<br/>
inst., completed the ruin of the Austrian<br/>
army. The central advance of the<br/>
Prussians was at Brunn on the 12th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
their second army was pushing forward<br/>
between Olmutz and Brunn; and the third<br/>
corps is approaching Vienna to the west<br/>
by Iglau and Znaÿm. Prague is also in<br/>
the hands of the foe. In the west of<br/>
Germany, the Federal forces have sus-<br/>
tained two defeats at Kissingen and As-<br/>
chaffenburg, and the Prussians were close<br/>
on Frankfort, whith city had been quit-<br/>
ted by the Diet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.-—The Empress and the Prince<br/>
Imperial left for Nancy on the 15th, the<br/>
Emperor being detained in the capital by<br/>
the critical state of Europe. Great naval<br/>
preparations are making, and a powerful<br/>
fleet is ordered to rendezvous at Toulon.<br/>
The MONITEUR has cautioned the Press<br/>
against disseminationg false news.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.-It is stated that the Czar will<br/>
maintain his neutrality in the present<br/>
conflict, should no foreign Power inter-<br/>
fere in Germany. Troops are said, how-<br/>
ever, to be concentrating on the Silesian<br/>
frontier and in Bessarabia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOLLAND.—-The Parliament has not<br/>
yet assembled. Vice-Admiral May is<br/>
dead. A society has been formed with<br/>
the object of acceleration the moral and<br/>
social progress of the Javanese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PAPAL STATES.—-A New York bank-<br/>
ing firm has been commissioned to nego-<br/>
tiate a loan for the Pope. Cardinal Mat-<br/>
taucci is dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MEXICO.-—Matamoros has capitulated,<br/>
and the Republicans are preparing to at-<br/>
tack Tampico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEST INDIES.-—Mr. Eyre has not yet<br/>
left Jamaica. The crops are excellent in<br/>
all the islands except Grenada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOUTH PACIFIC STATES.—-Admiral En-<br/>
calada is appointed commander of the<br/>
Chilian—Peruvian squadron. All Spanish<br/>
residents have been expelled from the<br/>
Chilian territory. The Chilian Banks<br/>
have offered to lend the Government six<br/>
million dollars. A line of telegraph is to<br/>
be established across Ecuador, Peru, Bo-<br/>
livia, and Chili.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MISCELLANEOUS.-—H. M. S. AMAZON<br/>
and steamer Osprey have been sunk by<br/>
a collision and a few lives lost. General<br/>
Peel, the new Secretary of War, has or-<br/>
dered the conversion of our Enfield's into<br/>
breech-loaders. The captives in Abys-<br/>
sinia have been again delayed. The<br/>
Jamaica Committee insist on the trial of<br/>
Governor Eyre for murder of Mr. Gordon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Securities are generally depressed,<br/>
owing to the uncertainty of the proposed<br/>
peace. The London Banks are all quiet,<br/>
and several favourable reports have been<br/>
issued. The Birmingham Banking Com-<br/>
pany have however failed, with liabilities<br/>
of neary £2,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Naval preparations appear to be<br/>
serious. The MESSAGER DU MIDI con-<br/>
tains the following from Toulon, dated<br/>
in the evening of July 9:—"The ar-<br/>
mour-plated squadron has just anchored<br/>
in the roadstead, coming from the Hyeres<br/>
Islands. The address of the despatch<br/>
ordering this movement was in the hand-<br/>
writing of the Minister of Marine him-<br/>
self. A later despatch has come order-<br/>
ing a maritime levy throughout the entire<br/>
5th maritime arrondissement, the stop-<br/>
page of the disarmament of the small<br/>
vessels of the flotilla, and the immediate<br/>
armament of four steam-vessels of the<br/>
reserve." Further we learn:—"A Go-<br/>
vernment despatch directed to the mari-<br/>
time prefecture of Cherbourg orders the<br/>
immediate levy of the disposable men of<br/>
the classes 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, and<br/>
1865 in the first maritime arrondissement.<br/>
The same despatch orders the armament<br/>
of four steam vessels—Napoleon, the<br/>
Bayard, the Fontenoy, and the Ville de<br/>
Nantes. Another despatch directs that<br/>
the plated division under the command<br/>
of Rear-Admiral Le Ronciere Le Noury,<br/>
consisting of the Magenta, Flandre,<br/>
Herione, and the advice-boat Forbin,<br/>
should put in three months' provisions,<br/>
and spare stores, and proceed without<br/>
delay to Toulon."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A dreadful fire has occurred at Port-<br/>
land, burning nearly half the city, and<br/>
rendering 2,000 families homeless. The<br/>
fire has destroyed property to the value<br/>
of $10,000,000. Gold on the evening of<br/>
5th inst. 153⅞.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEGOTIATIONS FOR PEACE.—M.<br/>
Benedetti, the French Ambassador,<br/>
and the Count de Barral, Italian minister at<br/>
Berlin, have accompanied the King to<br/>
the Prussian head-quarters at Brunn.<br/>
Negotiations are in progress there for a<br/>
truce of three days and not for an armis-<br/>
tice. An attaché to M. Benedetti left<br/>
Brunn on the 14th for Vienna. The<br/>
Berlin official STAATSANKZEIGER of yester-<br/>
day says:—"The assertions of various<br/>
newspapers that Prussia has demanded<br/>
the cession of Bohemia and Moravia as<br/>
a condition of peace are entirely unfound-<br/>
ed. A glance at the map shows that the<br/>
possession of these countries by Prussia<br/>
would not be a source of strength, but<br/>
of weakness; national interests also would<br/>
render such an acquisition undesirable.<br/>
The aim of the policy of Prussia is direc-<br/>
ted towards the establishment of a new<br/>
Confederation and the convocation of a<br/>
German Parliament. Connection with<br/>
countries only in part appertaining to Ger-<br/>
men nationality would place obstacles in<br/>
the way of the assembling of the Parlia-<br/>
ment. The Paris CONSTITUTIONNEL has<br/>
an article blaming certain journals for seek-<br/>
ing to induce the French Government to<br/>
acquire territorial enlargement in order<br/>
to balance the increase of territory ob-<br/>
tained by Prussia.—-STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wise Sayings by Josh Billings.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our newspapers are afflicted with the<br/>
writings of a race of bad spellers, who<br/>
are very popular just now. We fail to<br/>
see the wit in their poor orthography, but<br/>
Josh. Billings says some good things in<br/>
spite of it. Here are some of his "affair-<br/>
isms," &c.:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The principal differense between a<br/>
luxury and a necessary is, the price.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wise men don't expeck tu do awa with<br/>
the visissitades ov life, they onlr expeck<br/>
tew blunt the edge ov them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Honesta is the best polisay," but don't<br/>
take my word for it, tri it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of the advise we reseve from<br/>
others is not so much an evidense of their<br/>
affekshun for us, as it is an evidense of<br/>
their affekshun for themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a man spends in this life he saves;<br/>
what he don't git want ment for him, and<br/>
what he saves, he loozes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a feller gits a going down hil, it<br/>
dus seem as that every thing had bin<br/>
greased for the okashun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If there was nothing but truth in this<br/>
wurld, a fool would stand just as good a<br/>
chance as a wize man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rize arly, work hard and late, live on<br/>
what yu kan't sell, giv nothing awa, and<br/>
if yu don't die rich, and go tu the devil, yu<br/>
ma sue me for damages. N.B.—-The above<br/>
remarks are not intended to be permanent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are ap tu hate them who won't take<br/>
our advise, and despise them who do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is dredful easy tow be a phool—a<br/>
man kan be one and not know it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Real happines dont consist so mutch<br/>
in what a man dout hav, as it due in what<br/>
he don't want.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Marrin for love ma be a little riskey,<br/>
but it is so honest that God kant help but<br/>
smile on it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thare are a great multitude ov indivi-<br/>
duals who are like blind mules, anxious<br/>
enough to kick, but kant tell whare.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is highly important, when a man<br/>
makes up his minde tow bekum a raskall,<br/>
that he shud examine hissela closly, and<br/>
see if he aint better konstrukted for a<br/>
phool.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every time you forgive a man yu wea-<br/>
ken him and strengthen yourself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great art in writing well is to kno<br/>
when to stop.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a man has rods. fast onse, he<br/>
never wants tew go slow agin.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Great from Little.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Did holy life consist in one or two noble<br/>
deeds—some signal specimens of doing or<br/>
enduring or suffering—we might account<br/>
for the failure, and reckon it a small<br/>
dishonor to turn back in such a conflict.<br/>
But a holy life is made up of a multitude<br/>
of small things. It is the little things of<br/>
the hour, and not the great things of the<br/>
age, that fill up a life like that of Paul<br/>
and John, like that of Rutherford, or<br/>
Brainard, or Martyn. Little words, not<br/>
eloquent speeches or sermons, little deeds,<br/>
not miracles, nor battles, nor great or<br/>
mighty martyrdoms, make up the true<br/>
Christian life. The little constant sun-<br/>
beam, not the lightning: the waters of<br/>
Siloam, that go softly in their meek mis-<br/>
sion of refreshment; not the waters of the<br/>
river great and mighty, rushing down in<br/>
torrent noise and force, are the true sym-<br/>
bols of holy life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The avoidance of little evils, little sins,<br/>
little inconsistencies, little weaknesses,<br/>
little follies, little indiscretions, and im-<br/>
prudences, little foibles, little indulgen-<br/>
cies, of self and of the flesh, little acts<br/>
of indolence or indecision, of slovenliness<br/>
or cowardice, little equivocations or aber-<br/>
rations from high integrity, little touches<br/>
of shabbiness and meanness, little bits of<br/>
covetousness and penuriousness, little<br/>
exhibitions of worldliness and gayety,<br/>
little indifferences to the feeling or wishes<br/>
of others, little outbreaks of temper and<br/>
crossness or vanity; the avoidance of such<br/>
little things as these go far to make up<br/>
at least the negative beauty of a holy<br/>
life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And then attention to the little duties<br/>
of the day and hour, in public transac-<br/>
tions, of private dealings, or family ar-<br/>
rangements; to the little words and tones;<br/>
little benevolences or forbearances or<br/>
tenderness; little self denials and self-<br/>
restraints, and self-forgetfulness; little<br/>
plans of quiet kindness and thoughtful<br/>
consideration for others; to punctuality,<br/>
and method, and true aim in the order-<br/>
ing of each day—these are the active de-<br/>
velopments of a holy life, the rich and<br/>
the divine mosales of which it is compos-<br/>
ed. What makes your green hills so<br/>
beautiful? Not to the outstanding peak<br/>
or stately elm, but the bright sward which<br/>
clothes its slope composed of innumer-<br/>
ble blades of slender grass. It is of small<br/>
things that a great life is made up: and<br/>
he who will acknowledge no life a great<br/>
save that which is built up of great things,<br/>
will find little in Bible characters to ad-<br/>
mire or copy.—-BONAR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Famine.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first breath of English opinion on<br/>
the famine in Orissa has reached us.<br/>
When the frightful blundering and cul-<br/>
pable want of fore-sight which have re-<br/>
sulted in as many as four thousand deaths<br/>
from starvation in one week, are report-<br/>
ed, and it is known that the Governor<br/>
General was compelled to order the Ben-<br/>
gal Government down from Darjeeling<br/>
to do its duty on the spot, a cry of in-<br/>
dignation from England may be expect-<br/>
ed. A correspondent, who has just re-<br/>
turned from the scene in Orissa assures<br/>
us that, had all the rice which has been<br/>
rotting on the beach been sent into Oris-<br/>
sa by Gopaulpore, across the Chilka<br/>
Lake, it would have reached the markets<br/>
in the interior in safety and in time to<br/>
have preserved hundreds who have<br/>
crowded into Cuttack and Balasore only<br/>
to die. Meanwhile, in England, Colonel<br/>
G. T. Haly, who long commanded a<br/>
Madras corps in the Northern Circars,<br/>
has republished the statement in which<br/>
we sounded the alarm and urged a gen-<br/>
eral subscription so early as the begin-<br/>
ning of April last, as the basis of an ap-<br/>
peal for contributions to the "Orissa<br/>
Relief Loan Fund" to be expended on<br/>
works of irrigation and roads which will<br/>
prevent the recurrence of a calamity like<br/>
the present while relieving the sufferers.<br/>
The officials and missionaries in Orissa<br/>
have worked with almost superhuman<br/>
energy, but they acknowledge they can<br/>
do little to overtake the mass of misery<br/>
outside of the great stations. Mr. Raven-<br/>
shaw, the Commissioner, ought to be re-<br/>
lieved from other duties, that he may de-<br/>
vote all his time to organising wider<br/>
measures of relief, and to supplying<br/>
more detailed information than that<br/>
which trickles through the Board of Re-<br/>
venue. There is more need in Orissa for<br/>
a special Commissioner like Baird Smith<br/>
than there was in the North-Western<br/>
Provinces in 1860.61.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Up to the 11th instant the Bengal<br/>
Government has assigned Rs. 8,08,399<br/>
in all for relief of the famine. The re-<br/>
lief operations continue in full activity<br/>
in the three Districts of Orissa. In Cut-<br/>
tack alone more than 3,000 deaths are<br/>
attributed to the Famine in the week<br/>
ending 1st July. At Balasore 10,816<br/>
persons were on an average relieved daily<br/>
in the fortnight ending 23d June; from<br/>
2,231 of these it was found possible to<br/>
exact some slight work; 1,032 mounds of<br/>
Rice and Rs. 2,048 in cash were expen-<br/>
ded in the fortnight. The deaths attri-<br/>
buted to starvation were 768. In Poree<br/>
the daily average number relieved was<br/>
only 1,124, of whom did no work.<br/>
The expenditure of rice in the week<br/>
ending 23d June was 77½ maunds; of<br/>
money only Rs. 100. 69 deaths are re-<br/>
ported. Mr. Barlow says large numbers<br/>
get food from the various religious esta-<br/>
blishments of the town.—-F. OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dr. Duff on Foreign Missions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After describing Keshub Chunder<br/>
Sen's Lecture on Jesus Christ, Dr. Duff<br/>
made an appeal for missionary candidates.<br/>
Upon this point, there are some perhaps<br/>
who might turn round on me and say,—<br/>
"Why don't you set the example, and go<br/>
yourself?" The old members, the<br/>
fathers and brethren, know me; I would<br/>
not need to make such a remark to them,<br/>
for they know me better. But others<br/>
who do not know may wonder that I am<br/>
speaking here and not on the banks of<br/>
the Ganges? Let me say this in one<br/>
word. Restore me, if you can, such a<br/>
reasonable portion of health and strength<br/>
as would lead me warrantably to expect<br/>
to work there again,-—do that, and I tell<br/>
you solemnly there is not an amount of<br/>
moral suasion in the Free Church, or<br/>
wealth within the bounds of the British<br/>
empire, that would detain me in Scotland,<br/>
(Great Cheering.) I have had ties in<br/>
Scotland, and I know the poignancy and<br/>
heart-breaking feeling of tearing one's<br/>
self away from these ties: but when my<br/>
mind was made up, thirty-seven years<br/>
ago, that it was my duty to go, God who<br/>
put that into my mind, put it also, into<br/>
my heart to tear myself away from the<br/>
sobs and sighs of weeping parents and<br/>
brother, and sisters, and surrounding<br/>
friends; and when I came home a second<br/>
time, He enabled me to tear myself away<br/>
not only from these, but from my own<br/>
children. I have no such ties in this<br/>
country now. There are children whom<br/>
God Almighty has made his own and<br/>
provided for. I have still friends in this<br/>
country, God be praised; but the distance<br/>
across continents and oceans would not<br/>
dissolve their bonds. I have properly no<br/>
home in this country now. I feel as an<br/>
expatriated exile in my own native land ;<br/>
I never can feel myself at home on the<br/>
banks of the Forth as I did on the banks<br/>
of the Ganges. I have no home, properly<br/>
speaking. I have a residence, but it is a<br/>
cold and desolate lodging house, not a<br/>
real home. I have no ties to detain me<br/>
a day in this land—-no ties beyond the<br/>
dust of one, my friend, my councillor,<br/>
and in quiet, noiseless, and unobtrusive<br/>
ways the light of my eyes and the<br/>
strength of my right arm. I have no ties<br/>
to detain me here now; and if this As-<br/>
sembly will not help in getting the men<br/>
who shall go forth to work-—if the men<br/>
are exhausted—-if they are not to be<br/>
found, and if the Church is obliged to<br/>
confess to the Foreign Mission Commit-<br/>
tee that they are not to be had, and that<br/>
therefore, one or other of our mission<br/>
stations must be abandoned—-if this is to<br/>
be the case, and the proclamation is to<br/>
go forth that as we can no longer get<br/>
men to go forth to work, but must be<br/>
satisfied to get men to go forth as witnes-<br/>
ses and martyrs, ready to die, and in dy-<br/>
ing to bear testimony to the grandeur of<br/>
this missionary enterprise—-if you are to<br/>
issue this announcement this night—-if I<br/>
know my own heart, I will be the first to<br/>
offer my services, ready to go forth and<br/>
without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oh, dear friends, would to God I could<br/>
speak as my heart now prompts me. We<br/>
have among us material resources enough<br/>
and to spare. I must hold, with that<br/>
Bible in my hand, that Edinburgh, Glas-<br/>
gow, Aberdeen, or Dundee, could, any<br/>
one of them, maintain all our existing<br/>
missions and extend them greatly, with-<br/>
out themselves suffering any loss(Cheers.)<br/>
We have the men among us also, with<br/>
energies yet undeveloped; we have the<br/>
men with the strong hearts of our stur-<br/>
dy national character. Looking at the<br/>
ages that are past, do we not find that<br/>
the indomitable spirit of civil liberty<br/>
embodied itself in one representative<br/>
man—the Bruce of Bannockburn? Do<br/>
we not find in subsequent ages the spirit<br/>
of religious liberty embodying itself in<br/>
another representative man, the still<br/>
mightier Knox of the Reformation?<br/>
And if we were true to our own creed,<br/>
after all the victories achieved by this<br/>
Church, what is there to prevent the in-<br/>
domitable spirit of an aggressive evan-<br/>
gelism over the realms of heathenism,<br/>
embodying itself in another representa-<br/>
tive man, who would be a greater hero<br/>
than either of the other two, and thus<br/>
give us a triumvirate without a parallel<br/>
among the nations? Looking abroad<br/>
over the wide world, and perceiving the<br/>
seething, simmering condition of the na-<br/>
tions, may we not exclaim—-"Behold all<br/>
things are ready!" Ah! friends and<br/>
brethren, what then ought to be our re-<br/>
solution this night? Up—up, onward—-<br/>
onward, forward—forward, under the<br/>
banner and leadership of the Saviour<br/>
King! Oh! His head-—ah, that precious<br/>
head!-—already are many crowns-—the<br/>
crown of dominion over the kingdoms of<br/>
creation, providence, and grace; the<br/>
crown of dominion over the hierarchies of<br/>
heaven, and the potentates of hell; the<br/>
crown of dominion over the Church mil-<br/>
itant on earth, and the Church trium-<br/>
phant in glory. But one crown is want-<br/>
ing still; it is the crown of all the earth;<br/>
and all here present this night may be<br/>
privileged to share in the honour of<br/>
placing it on His head-—F. OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Velocity of Mechanism.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fan blowers are frequently run with<br/>
a velocity of 4000 turns per minute, while<br/>
the usual velocity of cotton spindles is<br/>
between 6000 and 7,800 turns per minute.<br/>
These are the highest rotary velocities<br/>
with which we are acquainted in ordinary<br/>
mechanism, but M. Arago, in measuring<br/>
the difference in the velocity of light while<br/>
passing through air and through water,<br/>
wished to give a revolving mirror a velo-<br/>
city of 8000 rotations per second. This<br/>
he was unable to do; with the most deli-<br/>
cate and perfect arrangement of cog-<br/>
wheels he was able to impart only 1000<br/>
revolutions per second to his mirror. M.<br/>
Foucault, by substituting for cog-wheels<br/>
a delicate turbine acted on by a steam<br/>
jet, raised the velocity to 1500 turns per<br/>
second. M. Arago, by removing the mir-<br/>
ror and turning the spindle alone, achiev-<br/>
ed a velocity even by the use of cog-wheels,<br/>
of 8000 turns per second-—equal to 480,<br/>
000 turns per minute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That spindle, therefore, turned 80 times<br/>
while an ordinary cotton spindle is turn-<br/>
ing once! This is the highest rotary velo-<br/>
city of which we have any account.—-<br/>
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
VANITAS, VANITATUM!—-A gold cof<br/>
fin set in precious stones now encases<br/>
the body of the second King of Siam,<br/>
aged thirty-seven, brother of the reign-<br/>
ing sovereign. It is deposited on a<br/>
throne, to await the day of the solemn<br/>
funeral, which, according to the cus-<br/>
toms of Siam, will not take place for<br/>
a year.—-N. Y. Observer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
August 30th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Accusers of the king
of Cheangmai.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that three of the Laos<br/>
princes concerned in accusing the king<br/>
of Cheangmai of plotting to throw off<br/>
the yoke of Siam and taking that of<br/>
Burmah instead, are now in town, and<br/>
that having been duly convicted of<br/>
originating and circulating entirely<br/>
false accusations against the king of<br/>
Cheangmai, have been sentenced by<br/>
the king of Siam, to perpetual degra-<br/>
tion from their princely honors and<br/>
civil authority. Their names are Chow<br/>
Hong-na—who was but a few days<br/>
since 2nd king of Cheangmai, Chow<br/>
Racha-Wong, and Chow Racha-Boot.<br/>
The latter is to be detained here in<br/>
Bangkok; the other two are allowed<br/>
to return to their own country but not<br/>
permitted to reside at the capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A post line to Cheangmai.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has occured to us that all this<br/>
Cheangmai affair would probably have<br/>
been prevented, and the consequent<br/>
great trouble and anxiety it has made<br/>
to the Siamese Government, and the<br/>
great expense of time and life of the<br/>
king of Cheangmai and his retinue in<br/>
coming hither to prove his innocence<br/>
avoided, had there been a weekly or<br/>
semi monthly post line from the Laos<br/>
capital to this city. Cheangmai though<br/>
not more than 400 miles distant by<br/>
measurement, is virtually four times<br/>
that distance from us in consequence<br/>
of the utter absence of postal facilities,<br/>
the want of any thing like a public<br/>
road, and the extreme difficulty of<br/>
stemming a strong current and cross-<br/>
ing the series of falls in the river in<br/>
the Laoe country. Such being the<br/>
case, an affair like that which has just<br/>
been settled has peculiar facilities,<br/>
(being so far from the central govern-<br/>
ment) for springing up and growing<br/>
to very formidable proportions ere the<br/>
strong hand of the government can be<br/>
laid upon it. Now a post line, such as<br/>
we have suggested, would virtually<br/>
diminish the distance three fourths, and<br/>
instead of but once in three months, or<br/>
four or five months, which probably<br/>
is the more usual experience, intelli-<br/>
gence would be received from each<br/>
other semi monthly. Had there been<br/>
in operation a railroad between the<br/>
two capitals during these last two<br/>
years, thus virtually bringing them<br/>
into close proximity, how could those<br/>
false accusers of the king of the Laos<br/>
have made a quarter of the trouble<br/>
and done the quarter of the damage<br/>
they have? Now a post line is the<br/>
third best improvement below a rail-<br/>
road (a common road being the second)<br/>
and it could be established with vastly<br/>
less expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to us high time for Siam<br/>
to commence some postal system among<br/>
her chief cities in all her States and<br/>
tributary Provinces. How weak would<br/>
the governments of the western nations<br/>
become by cutting off all their postal<br/>
systems? Why, they would relapse<br/>
into mere pigmies compared with what<br/>
they now are. And Siam will and<br/>
must be accounted a mere dwarf among<br/>
nations if she do not begin in earnest<br/>
to make improvements in this direction.<br/>
It appears to us that at Cheangmai<br/>
are centering great commercial as well<br/>
as civil interests. The vast teak forests<br/>
of the Laos belonging to Siam are now<br/>
being opened, and the timber cut in<br/>
them must be brought down the Me-<br/>
nam to Bangkok. There is every<br/>
probability that this city will, but a<br/>
few years hence greatly out-rival Maul-<br/>
main in the teak trade. And more-<br/>
over, most of that Laos country is<br/>
favored with a rich soil well adapted<br/>
to the growth of rice, cotton, carda-<br/>
mums, coffee, tea, and many other<br/>
important articles of merchandize.<br/>
We are informed too, that the country<br/>
is more densely populated even than<br/>
Siam proper—that the several tribes<br/>
of Laos at the North and Northeast of<br/>
this city, who are tributary to Siam,<br/>
are even more numerous than the Si-<br/>
amese themselves. If so, how import-<br/>
ant that some far more speedy modes<br/>
of inter-communication than now exists<br/>
between these Siamese subjects and<br/>
the central government should speedily<br/>
be opened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the great telegraphic line<br/>
between Rangoon and Singapore, with<br/>
a branch to Bangkok is in operation,<br/>
as we think it will be some two years<br/>
hence, we believe it will become a<br/>
prolific mother of other lines in vari-<br/>
ous parts of Siam, and we prophecy<br/>
that the one to Cheangmai will be the<br/>
first born. But let not the authorities<br/>
of the two capitals delay longer the<br/>
establishment of the cheap post line<br/>
which all governments in Europe and<br/>
America have had in operation for<br/>
scores of years. The true order to be<br/>
observed in making this kind of, im-<br/>
provement is, first to establish the post<br/>
lines, second common roads, third<br/>
Telegraph lines, and fourth iron rail-<br/>
roads with their iron clad steam<br/>
horses.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 9.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Siamese mode of sowing and
planting Rice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Paddy fields in Potohaburee are<br/>
seldom if ever sown, because the far-<br/>
mers find that they are far more likely<br/>
to reap a good harvest from rice trans-<br/>
planted. What would a western farmer<br/>
think of the tediousness of transplant-<br/>
ing every stalk of wheat which he would<br/>
have grow on a twenty acre lot? It would<br/>
be exceedingly difficult if not impos-<br/>
sible for even the most experienced of<br/>
these native rice growers to calculate<br/>
with sufficient accurateness when will<br/>
be the best time for sowing. If the<br/>
seed come up and there should be a<br/>
fortnight of drought immediately suc-<br/>
ceeding, it would perish. Or should<br/>
the rains fall so abundantly as to over-<br/>
flow the young paddy entirely, it would<br/>
likewise perish. The seasons are such,<br/>
that there are usually two or more dry<br/>
spells between the first abundant fall<br/>
of rain in May or June, and the still<br/>
more copious fall in September and<br/>
October. These latter rains are the<br/>
most important and usually the most<br/>
reliable. But it is then too late to<br/>
think of getting a crop of grain from<br/>
seed sown so late in the season, for<br/>
rice needs at least 5 months of time to<br/>
grow from its first sprouting to "the<br/>
full corn in the ear." And as the native<br/>
farmers have no means of sufficient<br/>
power by which they can irrigate ex-<br/>
tensive paddy fields in times of drought,<br/>
they manage to have the rice growing<br/>
very thickly in patches, or nurseries<br/>
as we call them, and these being in<br/>
comparatively a small compass they<br/>
can prevent from injury in times of<br/>
drought by artificial watering. For<br/>
these nurseries they seek the lowest<br/>
localities about the fields in the imme-<br/>
diate neighborhood of some pond or<br/>
near the river or canal where water<br/>
can always be had with which to ir-<br/>
rigate them. Having prepared the<br/>
ground for the seed by ploughing and<br/>
harrowing it until it is all in a semi-<br/>
fluid state, they scatter the seed upon<br/>
it so that it shall come up as thickly<br/>
as it can stand. But they always<br/>
sprout the seed before sowing. This<br/>
appears to be the work chiefly assigned<br/>
to women. You will see them out<br/>
with their baskets full of the sprouted<br/>
paddy in the latter part of May or first<br/>
of June, going to sow their paddy<br/>
nurseries in various parts of the great<br/>
fields. Being sprouted and sown on<br/>
thin mud it never needs to be covered.<br/>
This sprouted rice they call kla, and<br/>
the sowing of it they denominate tok<br/>
kla,—that is, casting the sprouted<br/>
seed. If the water be quite turbid,<br/>
and the seed be covered by it, it will<br/>
rot. But if the water be clear, as it<br/>
usually is in some localities, the sprout-<br/>
ed seed will do well even when entirely<br/>
covered with water, because the sun<br/>
light, being not intercepted, causes it<br/>
to flourish. Hence whenever there is<br/>
too much turbid water standing on the<br/>
nurseries at the time of sowing it has<br/>
to be drawn off, and this the farmers<br/>
usually do by bailing it out, sometimes<br/>
by means of the common well sweep<br/>
and bucket, and sometimes by basket<br/>
scoops or common baskets spread<br/>
over with a kind of pitch and swung<br/>
on stakes so that a slight swing causes<br/>
them to dip up two or three gallons<br/>
of water at once, and then another tilt<br/>
throws it over the embankment on the<br/>
outside of the patch. A boy or girl,<br/>
not more than 15 years old will easily<br/>
bail out by this means two gallons of<br/>
water at a time, averaging we would<br/>
judge 15 gallons a minute. We have<br/>
many times seen this contrivance at<br/>
work, and could not but admire its<br/>
simplicity and efficiency. Whenever<br/>
the nurseries begin to suffer from the<br/>
want of water, the farmers irrigate the<br/>
patches in the same way from the<br/>
river, canal, or pond near by. By<br/>
such means they keep the plants flou-<br/>
rishing at all times, awaiting a favor-<br/>
able time for transplanting them into<br/>
the larger fields. Whenever the plants<br/>
are at any intermediate state between<br/>
12 and 20 inches tall, they are thought<br/>
to be of suitable size for transplanting.<br/>
If shorter than 12 inches they are too<br/>
liable to become covered with water,<br/>
which would destroy them, and if longer<br/>
than 20 inches they are too top-heavy<br/>
to stand firmly in the water with their<br/>
tops above it. The proper time, in-<br/>
dicated by abundant rains, may come<br/>
in June, August or September. It<br/>
requires, we are informed, a great<br/>
amount of practical experience to plan<br/>
well so as to have the nurseries in the<br/>
right state of growth for the trasplan-<br/>
ting season; and hence the farmers ar-<br/>
range to have several patches of nursery<br/>
plants of different ages in a growing<br/>
state to meet the necessities that may<br/>
arise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fields into which the rice plants<br/>
are to be planted are first prepared for<br/>
them much as the nursery patches are<br/>
prepared for the sowing of the sprouted<br/>
grain. When the wet season seems<br/>
to have been fully established, and the<br/>
water in the fields is standing from 6<br/>
to 10 inches deep, then is the time for<br/>
men women and children to turn out for<br/>
the work of transplanting. It is called<br/>
dam na—literally to dive into the rice<br/>
fields; for they plunge the roots and<br/>
⅔ or ¾ of the stalks under water. The<br/>
divers or planters have bundles of<br/>
fresh pulled rice plants scattered here<br/>
and there over the field. Being thus<br/>
prepared, each transplanter takes a<br/>
handful of plants in his left hand and<br/>
wades into the water, and then sepa-<br/>
rating 3 or 4 stalks from his handful<br/>
he takes them with the toes of his<br/>
right foot and crowds the roots down<br/>
into the mud with surprising quick-<br/>
ness much more so than we could in<br/>
our boyhood days display in planting<br/>
a hill of Indian corn. He then takes<br/>
another bunch of 4 stalks and plants it<br/>
about 10 or 12 inches from the other;<br/>
and thus he goes on measuring the dis-<br/>
tances with his eye as well as he can, in-<br/>
tending to have the plants 12 inches<br/>
apart each way in the best ground,<br/>
and from 8 to 10 inches in that which<br/>
is poorer. Now does not this appear<br/>
to be a process for planting large fields<br/>
intolerably tedious? And yet many<br/>
hands seem to make a light work of<br/>
it. It is said that an experienced trans-<br/>
planter can complete a lot of one rei<br/>
per day—-equal to a little more than<br/>
three tenths of an acre.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is indispensable to the success of<br/>
the crop after the fields have been<br/>
thus planted, that there should always<br/>
be water enough on each lot to keep<br/>
the ground thoroughly drenched. The<br/>
best crops are reaped from lots that<br/>
are after transplanting, kept continual-<br/>
ly inundated to such an extent as that<br/>
⅓ or ⅔ of the stalks are under water<br/>
until nearly the time of the full corn<br/>
in the ear. Even from that time to<br/>
harvest, though the fields continue to<br/>
be thus inundated, the crop will not<br/>
usually suffer, unless there come a<br/>
strong wind and cause it to fall over<br/>
into the water. Much of the rice reap-<br/>
ed in the province of Ayuthia last<br/>
year was, as we are informed, cut<br/>
while standing a foot or two deep in<br/>
water, and that some of it was injured<br/>
by falling over into the water and<br/>
sprouting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The more we have looked into the<br/>
business of growing Rice in Siam,<br/>
the more are we impressed with the<br/>
precariousness of the work. We once<br/>
had the impression that the soil and<br/>
climate of Siam are so well adapted<br/>
to the growth of this grain that it<br/>
would grow with but very little cul-<br/>
tivation or anxiety on the part of the<br/>
farmers. But such is not the fact.<br/>
The crops are not only very liable to<br/>
be cut off by either too much or too<br/>
little water, but also by ground worms<br/>
and a kind of land crab. They assail<br/>
the roots of the plants soon af-<br/>
ter transplanting, and sometimes<br/>
make great havoc among the fields.<br/>
Sometimes their work is done so early<br/>
in the season as to leave still good<br/>
hope that the damages may be main-<br/>
ly repaired by replanting the patches<br/>
and fields which have been thus de-<br/>
stroyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Field hands are employed usually for<br/>
ploughing, harrowing, and planting the<br/>
rice fields at the rate of from 8 to 10<br/>
ticals per month. In times of a great<br/>
scarcity of laborers, or when some<br/>
peculiarity in the season has made it<br/>
indispensable to press on the work to<br/>
completion with all possible dispatch,<br/>
the farmers will of course pay much<br/>
more for help.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sometimes hands are employed by<br/>
the season, which extends from the be-<br/>
ginning of the wet season in May to<br/>
the end of threshing out the grain<br/>
in December or January. A com-<br/>
mon price for a good hand for such a<br/>
season is one koyan of paddy be the<br/>
same worth more or less. The pre-<br/>
sent market price of the best paddy is<br/>
51 tical per Koyan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The transplanting of the paddy is<br/>
sometimes let out by the job at 30<br/>
cents a rie or 77 cts. per acre.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A rie of good soil will yield 50<br/>
buckets of paddy, and the poorest<br/>
lots 25 buckets. The cultivated<br/>
fields are all taxed by the rie each<br/>
rie paying 21½ cents per annum.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Manners and customs of the
Cheang Mai Laos.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Cheang Mai Laos are quite a<br/>
hale looking class of people as com-<br/>
pared with the Siamese. And judg-<br/>
ing from the few hundreds of them we<br/>
see here now and have formerly seen,<br/>
they appear to be somewhat taller and<br/>
stouter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A large majority of the men are<br/>
thickly tattooed from the umbilicus<br/>
down to a little below the knees, and<br/>
are hence denominated black bellied<br/>
Laos to distinguish them from another<br/>
tribe living East of them who are call-<br/>
ed the white bellied Laos simply be-<br/>
cause they do not tattoo their abdomen.<br/>
One of the Laos princes told us a few<br/>
days since, that persons of his class<br/>
seldom follow this singular custom<br/>
as they do not reckon themselves a-<br/>
mong the class born to take the rough<br/>
and tumble of life, and very rarely to<br/>
become soldiers. But that other class-<br/>
es of the males follow the fashion be-<br/>
cause they glory in being men and not<br/>
women—-men who can fight like the de-<br/>
vils that are pictured on their abdo-<br/>
mens and thighs, and run like deer when<br/>
occasion calls, through jungles and<br/>
swamps with but little to cover their<br/>
tattooed nudity. That prince says<br/>
that there is no religious element con-<br/>
cerned in the custom. He says that<br/>
it is a painful operation, and that some<br/>
die in consequence of it. The colour-<br/>
ing matter which it deposites under<br/>
the cuticle is made chiefly of soot and<br/>
hogs lard or cocoanut oil. The usu-<br/>
al fee for tattooing a single person is<br/>
two ticals. But when figures are re-<br/>
quired demanding more of the skill and<br/>
time of the operator, the fee is conse-<br/>
quently a good deal more. It requires<br/>
many sittings or more properly lying<br/>
to complete the job on one man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dress of the males is very much<br/>
like that of the Siamese and their heads<br/>
also display the same peculiar tuft.<br/>
But the dress of the Laotian women<br/>
is very unlike that of the Siamese wo-<br/>
men. The main article of their dress<br/>
is a very peculiar petticoat—-made al-<br/>
ways of four pieces sewed together so<br/>
that their seams pass around the body.<br/>
The upper piece is white about 6 in-<br/>
ches wide; the next below is red, 12<br/>
inches wide; the next 24 inches black<br/>
shaded, with motley colours, the stripes<br/>
being an inch wide; the bottom piece<br/>
is red and 14 inches wide. The ends<br/>
of the garment thus made are sewed<br/>
together, and when placed on the per-<br/>
son is kept in its place just as the Si-<br/>
amese do their panoong, by using the<br/>
white strip for a belt as a band of a sheaf<br/>
of wheat is twisted and tucked in under<br/>
itself. The women very generally<br/>
have a white, yellow, or pink sash<br/>
which they tie around their chests.<br/>
It is curious to notice the uniformity<br/>
and universality of the female dress.<br/>
The higher classes vary the style a lit-<br/>
tle by inserting a very showy strip of<br/>
wrought silk next above the bottom<br/>
piece.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These Laotian women wear their<br/>
hair long, and dress it neatly by put-<br/>
ting it up in a roll on the back part of<br/>
the head. It is, perhaps, this style of<br/>
dressing their hair more than any oth-<br/>
er peculiarity, which makes them<br/>
look better than Siamese women com-<br/>
monly do. Even those who serve as cooks<br/>
for the king and other princes appear<br/>
so neat in the prosecution of their<br/>
business, that it gives one a good relish<br/>
for the dishes they prepare by simply<br/>
looking at them while thus engaged.<br/>
Their cooking utensils are mostly made<br/>
of copper. Iron rings from 8 to 12<br/>
inches in diameter sustained in a hor-<br/>
izontal position by four iron legs 8 in-<br/>
ches long form their fire places. Their<br/>
rice pots, spiders, tea kettles &c. are<br/>
placed on these portable stoves and<br/>
fire built under them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We observed that a number of the<br/>
boats belonging to the retinue<br/>
have quite a quantity of teak blocks<br/>
on their bows brought down for use<br/>
in cooking for the king and his family.<br/>
The men were splitting them up into<br/>
small pieces for the women. Their<br/>
axes are exactly of the shape and size<br/>
of the iron wedge with which in our<br/>
youthful days we split wood and rails<br/>
They are used with great power in split-<br/>
ting, but must, we think, be quite awk-<br/>
ward to chop with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had the pleasure of receiving<br/>
a small European mail on the 27th<br/>
ult. per British Steamer "Seewoon".<br/>
And from one of our Singapore Ex-<br/>
changes of the 18th Aug. we have<br/>
copied in our present issue some inter-<br/>
esting European intelligence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Albert Tucker and Chia Ah<br/>
Hin came as passengers on the "See-<br/>
woon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. M. Odman Esqr. and Mr. Per-<br/>
eirs left for Singapore as passengers<br/>
on board the Siamese Str. "Chow Phya"<br/>
on the 25th ulto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steps at the landing in front<br/>
of the Protestant Chapel, we have<br/>
observed for a long time, are getting<br/>
much out of repair. The last sabbath<br/>
they seemed so bad as to render it<br/>
a good deal hazardous to ascend and<br/>
descend upon them. Allow us to en-<br/>
quire whose business it is to see that<br/>
they are repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ELOPEMENT.—We learn that the wife<br/>
of H. A. Gardner Constable to the<br/>
British Consulate in this city, eloped<br/>
and fled the country under the pro-<br/>
tection of Captain Kruse, master of<br/>
"Orestes" a Siamese bark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A SIAMESE MARRIAGE.—Koon Noo<br/>
son of the late governor of Ayü, his<br/>
was to-day married after Siamese style<br/>
to a niece of His E. Chow Phya Ka-<br/>
lahome and daughter of Phya Souri-<br/>
wong Wieyawat. The bridegroom we<br/>
think is a cousin of his bride. The<br/>
new married couple are to reside in a<br/>
house built for them by the father of<br/>
the bride in the vicinity of the old<br/>
homestead
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Surveying Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been credibly informed<br/>
that a certain European Engineer—-a<br/>
professional surveyor, has recently of-<br/>
fered his services to the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment for making a scientifical sur-<br/>
vey of the rivers of Siam and other<br/>
parts of this kingdom, and that his<br/>
proffer has been rejected on the score<br/>
that there is not yet sufficient necess-<br/>
ity for such a work to justify the ex-<br/>
pense to which it would subject the<br/>
government. We know nothing of the<br/>
merits of this surveyor and consequent-<br/>
ly can form no opinion on the question of<br/>
paying him $500 per month for which<br/>
it is said, he has proposed to serve. We<br/>
can only say, that if he be a thorough<br/>
man in his profession, with strict hon-<br/>
esty and temperance as his security,<br/>
the Siamese government might well<br/>
afford to employ him on those terms.<br/>
The work which he proposes to do<br/>
is one of the gravest importance to the<br/>
prosperity of this kingdom. The Siam-<br/>
ese government should feel deeply<br/>
humbled in view of the fact that it<br/>
has never to this late day of her boast-<br/>
ed enlightenment had any accurate<br/>
surveys made of any one of her four<br/>
noble rivers, nor of the precise local-<br/>
ity, surroundings, and boundary of<br/>
more than half a dozen cities, towns,<br/>
or countries among all her many<br/>
States and tributary Provinces. How<br/>
can she deserve the name of being an<br/>
enlightened government while per-<br/>
sisting in such ignorance of her<br/>
own territory? As well might a surgeon<br/>
be said to be enlightened in his pro-<br/>
fession, who has never studied anato-<br/>
my, and has only a vague conjecture<br/>
of the nature and locality of the bones,<br/>
muscles, nerves, and blood vessels of<br/>
the human system. Let not the gov-<br/>
ernment think of excusing herself<br/>
longer from inaugurating thorough<br/>
surveys of her country on the ground<br/>
of pecuniary expense. Such a plea,<br/>
it seems to us, would be void of any<br/>
good reason. It would only prove that<br/>
the money which has been flowing in-<br/>
to the kingdom to an extraordinary<br/>
amount during these last 8 years, has<br/>
[............] on such works as do<br/>
not at all [....] the country. We<br/>
would counsel that all such expendi-<br/>
ture be stopped and the public money<br/>
devoted to making internal improve-<br/>
ments in good earnest.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Visit to the ruins of Cambodia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from No. 33.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After having passed to the other<br/>
side of the river of Siemrah, we en-<br/>
countered in the forests the ruins of<br/>
two other places which present the<br/>
same combination of a royal and priest-<br/>
ly residence as in the towns of Nakhon<br/>
Luang and Nakhon Watt. The royal<br/>
city bears the name of Patru Ta-<br/>
Phrohm,—the citadel of Ta-Phrohm<br/>
and the priestly one is called Prasat<br/>
Keoh, the gem tower. The ancient<br/>
kings removed to this place after the<br/>
destruction of Nakhon Watt and Na-<br/>
khon Luang, and there still exists a<br/>
long chain of traditions which connect<br/>
the first and second period of Cambo-<br/>
dian history, distinct indications of<br/>
which are given by the names them-<br/>
selves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last king of Nakhon Luang<br/>
lost his reign because he had erected<br/>
the four faced figure of Phrohm to<br/>
keep off the snake god, who till then<br/>
had been the protector of the country,<br/>
and the first king is called Ta Phrohm,<br/>
ancestor or Grand father Phrohm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This statue still stands in one of the<br/>
corridors in a mutilated state, but<br/>
sufficiently well preserved to show<br/>
that the hair has been tied up in the<br/>
Bhraminical fashion. One of the<br/>
principal ornaments on roofs and bal-<br/>
conies is the vigorous figure of Kruth<br/>
Garuda, the inveterate enemy of the<br/>
Nagas tearing a viper in his hands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The outer wall of the Patru Ta<br/>
Phrohm is only a mound of earth, but<br/>
the two inner circles are built of stone.<br/>
A line of passages and doorways leads<br/>
up to the palace, composed of an in-<br/>
tricate labyrinth of low and narrow<br/>
corridors enclosing small courts and<br/>
running out in small turrets, at the<br/>
ends between a convolute of chambers<br/>
of different sizes and filled with clusters<br/>
of pillasters. Most of the columns are<br/>
richly ornamented, and on each of the<br/>
portals is sculptured a scene referring<br/>
to some event in Hindu Mythology.<br/>
The whole pillar is often a mass of<br/>
sculpture from the base to the capitol.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The style of architecture is less col-<br/>
ossal than that of Nakhon Luang, but<br/>
the ornamental approaches in elegance<br/>
the master pieces which embellish Na-<br/>
khon Watt, and as in this latter place<br/>
the honey suckle border everywhere<br/>
decorates the columns by which the<br/>
pointed arch is supported.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The columns are clothed with ara-<br/>
besque which have been carved out<br/>
of the stone, and mostly enclose in<br/>
their curvatures the representations of<br/>
Rosi or Thevada or Thephanon a<br/>
figure frequently mistaken for a<br/>
Buddha. The palace at Patru Ta<br/>
Phrohm was surmounted by thirty-five<br/>
towers some of which are still stand-<br/>
ing, but most of them lie in ruins.<br/>
The stones are not so much hewn as<br/>
really polished, and they fit together<br/>
without mortar. The spires on the<br/>
roofs stand in groupes of five forming<br/>
a pancha Prauda like the ancient<br/>
buildings ascribed by the Malays to<br/>
their Hindu princes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prasat Keoh the adjoining temple<br/>
monastery of Patru Ta Phrohm stands<br/>
on a broad flat hill, to the summit of<br/>
which leads several flights of steps un-<br/>
der covered passages. The forest has<br/>
here reclaimed its own and destroyed<br/>
the work of human hands, so densely<br/>
has the luxuriant jungle shot up in<br/>
this formerly cultivated place that for<br/>
every step a path has to be cleared by<br/>
a cutlass. The plan of the buildings<br/>
is that of a cross four turrets with<br/>
gates at the four points of the horizon<br/>
surrounding a fifth one, and each of<br/>
those turrets opens again in four gates<br/>
placed at right angles. The temples<br/>
as well as the broad terraces on which<br/>
they stand are composed of large<br/>
stones which although consisting for<br/>
the most part of hard slate, are as<br/>
neatly fitted together as the soft grey<br/>
stone of Nakhon Watt. Ornaments<br/>
are very sparingly used and sculptures<br/>
of men and animals outside are want-<br/>
ing. The temple is said to have con-<br/>
tained the famous image of a single<br/>
Emerald, or more likely Jadestone,<br/>
like the present one called Phra Keoh<br/>
about which a great number of wild<br/>
legends are current in Siam and Cam-<br/>
bodis, originating perhaps in the re-<br/>
membrance of the wonderful Jasper<br/>
image of Ceylon, which was carried by<br/>
the priestly sculpture Nantch overland<br/>
to China in the fifth century and care-<br/>
fully preserved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The arrival of Nantha Anon or<br/>
Ananda plays still an important part<br/>
in the traditions of the Cambodians,<br/>
who distinguish him very well from<br/>
Gautama's favorite disciple of the same<br/>
name.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The original of Phra Keoh was<br/>
perhaps the Jasper image of Ceylon<br/>
described still by Fa Hean, which had<br/>
already attracted the attention of the<br/>
Chinese in the first century.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the neighborhood of Phra Keoh<br/>
is an artificial lake called Sa Song, the<br/>
royal lake, which was built by the<br/>
kings Patru Ta Phrohm for their re-<br/>
creation and surrounded by pleasure<br/>
houses. It is now covered with lotus<br/>
and aquatic plants but still supplies<br/>
the villages scattered in the forest with<br/>
water as there is no other near. It<br/>
must have been a work of immense<br/>
labour, and fills the beholder with<br/>
doubtful wonder when he compares<br/>
these witnesses of former centuries<br/>
with the present state of the country.<br/>
The whole of the population of Cam-<br/>
bodia of to-day would scarcely be able<br/>
to raise one of these gigantic structures<br/>
which abound in ruins.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Burmese lake Oungbenteh<br/>
comes in no way near to that of Sa<br/>
Song, which may perhaps be placed<br/>
by the side of the Ceylonese works of<br/>
irrigation. The lake of Sa Song is of<br/>
oblong shape about 2000 feet broad,<br/>
and 4000 long, surrounded by a high<br/>
embankment of solid masonry. Some<br/>
of the blocks are from 14 to 16 feet<br/>
long and highly finished. In conven-<br/>
ient places square platforms overhang<br/>
the water, with broad flights of steps<br/>
leading down to it, and on such places<br/>
the huge masses of stones laid on each<br/>
other are embellished with delicate<br/>
chisellings bearing the figures of ser-<br/>
pents, eagles, and lions in three fabul-<br/>
ous shapes as Nagu, Kruth, Sinto, on<br/>
the ends. In the middle of the lake<br/>
is a small island with the remains of<br/>
a former palace upon it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of all the figures used for ornaments<br/>
that which occurs most frequently is<br/>
that of the Nags, and the Chinese of-<br/>
ficer who visited Cambodia in 1295<br/>
has described already the pillars of the<br/>
stone bridges adorned with serpents<br/>
each of which has nine heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Returning to Siemrab on the left<br/>
hand of the river I passed two other<br/>
remains of antiquity Laitan and Ba-<br/>
kong, both of them now converted<br/>
into convents, that is to say, the priests<br/>
have built their low and tottering cells<br/>
between these splendid ruins which<br/>
they were not able to repair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Laitan a large square platform<br/>
is supported by three terraces of cut<br/>
stone, ascending one above another on<br/>
the highest point of an inclined plain<br/>
which stretches away from these to<br/>
low grounds on the bushy horizon.<br/>
In the height of the rainy season these<br/>
are covered with water, and in this<br/>
lake boat races and boat fights were<br/>
annually held, as the tradition says,<br/>
the king of Inthapatsburi looking on<br/>
from the terraces of Laitan. A simi-<br/>
lar contrivance existed at Arnnapoorra<br/>
in Birma.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The stones of which the terraces of<br/>
Laitan are composed are huge blocks<br/>
symmetrically cut and joined together<br/>
with great accuracy. A broad flight<br/>
of steps guarded by lions leads up<br/>
from the side on one abutment: upon<br/>
the platform stand in two four Praasat<br/>
built up with bricks upon the free-<br/>
stone which forms the foundation and<br/>
the lower stage. The bricks are ex-<br/>
ceedingly hard and made in a manner<br/>
not understood now by the people of<br/>
the country. They are polished and laid<br/>
upon each other in so neat a manner<br/>
that no trace of mortar can be dis-<br/>
covered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The folds of the stone gates are<br/>
covered with intricate carvings of re-<br/>
buculated ornaments, great care being<br/>
bestowed on even the minutest portions<br/>
of the design and in the niches ad-<br/>
joining statutes of warriors stand sen-<br/>
tinels. The surface of the stone<br/>
which forms the portal is in every case<br/>
elaborately sculptured to present one<br/>
scene or other of mythological import.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most magnificent inscriptions<br/>
I have ever seen cover the door posts<br/>
from top to bottom in a nearly perfect<br/>
state of preservation, the letters are<br/>
three quarters of an inch long and cut<br/>
half an inch deep into the hard stone.<br/>
A another stone inscription is found on<br/>
both sides of a flat stone set upright.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most interesting feature at Ba-<br/>
kong, one hours distance from Laitan,<br/>
is a hill built up artificially upon a<br/>
natural base in the style of the Mexi-<br/>
can Teocalli. It rises in terraced lines<br/>
and bears the remains of a square alter<br/>
upon its level platform where a wide<br/>
view opens out over the surrounding<br/>
country. The foot of the trunested<br/>
pyramid is surrounded by ten praasats<br/>
most of them with pedestals inside on<br/>
which the statues of the gods were<br/>
formerly placed. These are wanting<br/>
now, but some of them are heaped up<br/>
in idol houses close by. Mutilated<br/>
figures of elephants, lions and dragons<br/>
stand on the steps, and the stone<br/>
gates are embellished with ornamental<br/>
designs arabesque in the same way as<br/>
at Laitan. In the carvings of the<br/>
portal stone, the central place is al-<br/>
ways occupied by a Gorgon head on<br/>
the face of a Rakshaka called on ac-<br/>
count of its peculiar form Rhea by the<br/>
Siamese and Cambodians artists. This<br/>
is sometimes identified with Rahu, on<br/>
according to Cambodian Savans with<br/>
Rembu Chutung whose head when cut<br/>
off by Vishnu's Chakr had already<br/>
imbibed the immortalizing liquor. It<br/>
resembles somewhat the hideous mask<br/>
on the calender stone at Mexico and<br/>
in the sculptures at Palengu. Bakong<br/>
was built for the reception of Phra<br/>
Kho (the holy ox) which associated<br/>
with Phra Kheo (the holy gem) is<br/>
continually alluded to in Cambodian<br/>
history.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the Chinese in the middle ages<br/>
after Bhraminical rites had been intro-<br/>
duced by the Tamulians remarked of<br/>
the kings of Ceylon, that they looked<br/>
with equal reverence on the Ox and<br/>
on the image of Buddh, so it was with<br/>
the kings of Cambodia, and even now<br/>
a days the form of Sevas bull lies on<br/>
the sacred hill of Udong, at the feet<br/>
of the temple of Gautama, whose sym-<br/>
bol was the ox in the Syara Malaya.<br/>
It is said that the people never ate the<br/>
cow nor killed it. The Buddhistic<br/>
priests to conceal the fact that the ox<br/>
had been worshipped, are accustomed<br/>
to say that it was used as a library<br/>
and kept in reverence on account of<br/>
the holy books placed in its belly. I<br/>
found no inscriptions at Bakong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of the ruins which I visited after<br/>
my having navigated the Thalesab in<br/>
the province of Battabong, I will only<br/>
mention those of Watt-ek, which con-<br/>
sists of a monastry, rising on a square<br/>
platform, formed by stone terraces<br/>
above the swampy ground surrounding<br/>
it. Banon which forms a fortified<br/>
temple on the top of a steep hill<br/>
amongst wild and romantic scenery,<br/>
and Basak which was formerly a royal<br/>
residence, with considerable remains<br/>
of walls, palaces, temples, houses and<br/>
streets all built or paved with stone,<br/>
and in some places repaired with<br/>
bricks. Sometimes to strengthen the<br/>
structure beams of a hard kind of iron<br/>
wood (chiefly at Watt-ek) are fixed<br/>
into the masonry, but in such a way<br/>
as only to become visible after the<br/>
outer stones have fallen down by some<br/>
accident.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Cambodians who accompanied<br/>
me thought that some of the great<br/>
slabs were not natural but manufac-<br/>
tured on the spot, and I remember to<br/>
have seen such an opinion proffered<br/>
about some ancient temples in Assam,<br/>
as for instance the stone pillars at<br/>
Dhemapoor. Of the immense rocks<br/>
which enter into the construction of<br/>
Nakhon Watt, tradition says, that they<br/>
had first been soft and by some pro-<br/>
cess hardened after being placed there.<br/>
The guides point to the traces of the<br/>
fingers which the gods when they re-<br/>
moved left on the stones, taking for<br/>
such large holes which originally<br/>
served to insert the fastenings of the<br/>
lead or other metals with which the<br/>
building was roofed, or for the ma-<br/>
chinery to hoist them up. According<br/>
to the Chinese account in the 13th<br/>
century the palace of the Cambodian<br/>
kings was partly tiled with lead and<br/>
partly covered with yellow bricks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Inscriptions are only found in Basak<br/>
and Watt-ek not in Banon, but the<br/>
ornamental sculptures of portals, gates,<br/>
and columns are equally exquisite on<br/>
the three places. Banon was formerly<br/>
ly as it is said the seat of Bhraminical<br/>
rites, and there are now families<br/>
of Bhramins settled in Cambodia as<br/>
well as in Siam and Birma, chiefly as<br/>
astrologers in the royal service. They<br/>
have an alphabet of there own, copies<br/>
of which I have procured, but the<br/>
letters bear little resemblance to those<br/>
of the inscriptions. Amongst the<br/>
statues frequently occurs that of the<br/>
Inan bearer in the form of the popular<br/>
hero, Kotabong, whose name (tabong)<br/>
disappeared, Bat at Battabong written<br/>
wrongly Phra tambong by the Siamese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The natives enumerated many other<br/>
towns which according to their ac-<br/>
count contain ancient ruins in bricks<br/>
and stones, and it appears that they<br/>
are spread over the whole valley of<br/>
Mekhong as far a Laos, but as their<br/>
relative position could only be under-<br/>
stood on a map, I limit the catalogue<br/>
to two communications which were<br/>
given me on reliable authority, as the<br/>
2nd King of Siam told me, that there<br/>
are some stone ruins at Phra Mai<br/>
(probably Chieng Mai) near Raxasama<br/>
the capital of the province of Korat,<br/>
built on the model of the temple of<br/>
Nakhon Watt, but in smaller dimen-<br/>
sions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king had not visited Nakhon<br/>
Watt himself, as there prevails a mys-<br/>
terious fear throughout Siam and<br/>
Cambodia to approach this hallowed<br/>
spot; but several of his people who<br/>
accompanied him to Chieng Mai had<br/>
been at Nakhon Watt and were struck<br/>
with the resemblance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A French missionary who had pass-<br/>
ed several years amongst the savage<br/>
tribes of Stien, describes to me exten-<br/>
sive stone ruins which exist on the<br/>
islands of Kosatin on the Mekhong<br/>
three days upwards from Panompen,<br/>
they consist of four large towers or-<br/>
namented with sculptures, and have an<br/>
ancient kind of letters inscribed on<br/>
them very like by the Akson Miking<br/>
as in the other places at Udong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I saw in the principle Watt, two<br/>
inscribed stones which had been<br/>
brought from some ruins half way on<br/>
the road to Kampot.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Origin and History of
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
#The Needle Gun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following account of the origin<br/>
and history of the needle-gun is nar-<br/>
rated by the Paris correspondent of the<br/>
Liverpool Journal. Everything rela-<br/>
ting to the terrible instrument has a<br/>
special interest at the present moment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the Peace Society had offered a re-<br/>
ward for the invention of the best means<br/>
of putting a speedy end to war, the prize<br/>
might certainly be claimed by the inven-<br/>
tor of the needle-gun, which evidently<br/>
proves to be the secret possessed by Bis-<br/>
marck, and to which he has so often allud-<br/>
ed as ensuring a successful termination of<br/>
the struggle with Austria. The news of<br/>
the complete defeat of the latter, after a<br/>
terrible combat in which the whole forces<br/>
of both parties were engaged, has filled<br/>
with dismay even those who had hoped for<br/>
this very result; for it is owned that<br/>
neither to superior bravery nor skill, nei-<br/>
ther to superior numbers nor advantage in<br/>
ground, is the victory owing, but simply to<br/>
the employment of the needle-gun. This arm,<br/>
which has shown itself equal to the task<br/>
attempted in vain by philosophy and reli-<br/>
gion, that of staying the combatants and<br/>
arresting the progress of war, has a history<br/>
exactly similar in all points to that of<br/>
every other invention. It is well known<br/>
to be the produce of the long study and<br/>
perseverance of an English officer who,<br/>
while stationed at a solitary outpost in<br/>
Canada, amused his leisure hours with ex-<br/>
periments in the rough construction of a<br/>
substitute for the rifle which he had dam-<br/>
aged by letting it drop down a precipice<br/>
while in pursuit of a bear. It was almost<br/>
by accident that the discovery became<br/>
palpable to the solitary hunter in the<br/>
woods. But no sooner did it become<br/>
manifest to his senses than he resigned his<br/>
commission in the army, returned to<br/>
Europe, and, as a matter of course, hurried<br/>
to the War Office with his invention,<br/>
certain of its adoption in the English<br/>
army, from its evident superiority over<br/>
the old-fashioned weapon in use. For<br/>
more than a year was the inventor kept<br/>
in suspense. The Enfield rifle met him at<br/>
every turn. He was bandied about from<br/>
one official to another during all this time<br/>
merely to be told at last that Government<br/>
did not feel disposed to alter the principle<br/>
of the arms employed. It was then that<br/>
in disgust he brought his invention to<br/>
Paris, and by even a more bitter mockery<br/>
of fate than in London he obtained an in-<br/>
terview with the Emperor, who listened<br/>
with the greatest apparent interest to the<br/>
description of the gun, examined the plans<br/>
and sections brought by the officer, much<br/>
questioned the superiority of the invention<br/>
over others which had been laid before<br/>
him, declared it seemed to him liable to<br/>
the great objection of being too delicate<br/>
for field use, and abruptly sounded the<br/>
little gong which stands upon his bureau,<br/>
and, lightly rising when the usher entered<br/>
at the summons, dismissed the visitor to<br/>
admit other inopportunates. It was then<br/>
that with the undaunted perseverance of<br/>
inventors in general, he betook himself,<br/>
armed with his needle-gun, to Holland,<br/>
whose Sovereign had always manifested<br/>
great interest in the advancement of gun-<br/>
nery, and who had first become the pur-<br/>
chaser of a steel caullker to repair instan-<br/>
taneously the damage caused by the en-<br/>
emy's shot in ships' sides, which, being<br/>
the invention of a poor carpenter's jour-<br/>
neyman, had nevertheless found its way<br/>
into the royal presence, and been accepted<br/>
without the smallest attempt at bargain-<br/>
ing. But, when arrived at the Hague he<br/>
found that his resources had dwindled<br/>
away to such an extent that he was com-<br/>
pelled to delay his presentation to the<br/>
King for want of proper costume to appear<br/>
in. Meanwhile, he became accidentally<br/>
acquainted with one of the gentlemen at-<br/>
tached to the Prussian Legation at the<br/>
Hague, and to whom he recounted his<br/>
bitter grievances. This time was he lis-<br/>
tened to with interest. The brother-in-law<br/>
of his new friend held some appointment at<br/>
the Court of Berlin. War and revolution<br/>
were already floating through the air. He<br/>
saw at once all the advantage which might<br/>
accrue from being the first to present a<br/>
new and valuable instrument of destruc-<br/>
tion to Bismarck so determined to destroy,<br/>
and he lost no time in repairing with the<br/>
Englishman to Berlin. Here the way was<br/>
open—the hour had come, the needle-gun<br/>
was tried, examined, and accepted in the<br/>
shortest possible space of time—the inven-<br/>
tor handsomely rewarded and encouraged<br/>
to establish himself in Prussia. We have<br/>
seen the result in this terrible encounter<br/>
with the Austrians, where courage, skill,<br/>
prudence, and valour were of no avail<br/>
against the needle-gun, which for a long<br/>
time served as the laughing-stock to every<br/>
ETAT MAJOR in Europe, and which has<br/>
now become an object of envy to all.<br/>
The Austrian cavalry, which by sheer in-<br/>
trepidity managed to break one or two<br/>
squares of the Prussian infantry in spite<br/>
of the needle-gun, did so at an enormous<br/>
sacrifice of life, and proved beyond all<br/>
doubt that both cavalry and infantry have<br/>
found their master in the terrible weapon<br/>
employed by the Prussians in this war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The odds in favour of the needle-gun are<br/>
easy enough to calculate. The Prussians<br/>
can fire three rounds a minute: if four<br/>
minutes' march be the usual time allotted<br/>
for a bayonet charge, the Austrian foot-<br/>
soldier must have stood four-and-twenty<br/>
shots before he could have a chance of<br/>
meeting the enemy hand to hand: and,<br/>
should he give way to take the full spring<br/>
forward, he must of necessity have been<br/>
struck down. With such certainty of des-<br/>
truction as that provided by the needle-<br/>
gun, all question of right and justice be-<br/>
comes unnecessary.—-STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHICKENS.<br/>
—A writer in the New York TIMES says:<br/>
"When the chickens are hatched, if be-<br/>
fore taking them from the nest you<br/>
would oil the top of the heads of the<br/>
chicks, you will destroy all the lice there<br/>
are in the brood; for as soon as two or<br/>
three chicks are hatched, all the lice up-<br/>
on the hen leave her, and quarter them-<br/>
selves on the heads of the chicks, and<br/>
the oil will kill them; and then with<br/>
clean quarters for the chicks on a start,<br/>
and a thorough cleaning of the coop each<br/>
week, you will not fail to raise your<br/>
brood."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE BULLET AND DISEASE.—The Pro-<br/>
vost-Marshal General has furnished the<br/>
War Department with various statistics<br/>
of the war in which the casualties in the<br/>
Union service during the war are set<br/>
down as 280,737, distributed as follows:<br/>
Officers killed in action, or died of<br/>
wounds while in the service, 5,221; en-<br/>
listed men do., 90,868; commissioned of-<br/>
ficers died from disease or accident, 2,<br/>
821; enlisted men do., 182,329. It will<br/>
thus be seen that nearly one hundred<br/>
thousand more men died from camp and<br/>
other diseases, than were killed and died<br/>
from wounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DR. CHALMERS instructs us to "Live<br/>
for something." Do good and leave<br/>
behind you a monument of virtue that<br/>
the storm of time can never destroy.<br/>
Write your name in kindness, love,<br/>
and mercy, on the hearts of thousands<br/>
you come in contact with year by<br/>
year; you will never be forgotten. No;<br/>
your name, your deeds will be as legi-<br/>
ble on the hearts you leave behind as<br/>
the stars on the brow of evening. Good<br/>
deeds will shine as the stars of heaven."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DURING one of the battles on the<br/>
Mississippi, General Pillow called out<br/>
to a Captain Duncan, in his usual<br/>
pompous, solemn manner, "Captain<br/>
Duncan, fire!—the crisis has come."<br/>
Duncan, without saying a word, turn-<br/>
ed to his men, who were standing by,<br/>
their guns already shotted and primed,<br/>
and simply called out "Fire!" The<br/>
men were slightly surprised at the or-<br/>
der, their being no particular object<br/>
within range, when an old grey-head-<br/>
ed Irish sergeant stopped up with,<br/>
"Plaze yer honor, what shall we fire<br/>
at?" "Fite at the crisis," said Dun-<br/>
can, "didn't you hear the general say<br/>
it had come?"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Results of the Constantinople
Cholera Commission.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Levant Herald.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Commission chosen from the<br/>
members of the International Sanitary<br/>
Conference have drawn up an able and<br/>
comprehensive report, after a laborious<br/>
session of two months. The questions of<br/>
the origin, the naturalization, the trans-<br/>
mission, and the propagation of cholera<br/>
were examined in all their aspects, and<br/>
the Commission have embodied the facts<br/>
collected in the course of the inquiry,<br/>
and the conclusions obtained, in a docu-<br/>
ment which will rank hereafter amongst<br/>
the most valuable authorities on the sub-<br/>
ject of special diseases. The Commission<br/>
formed itself into six sections. The gen-<br/>
erating origin of the disease was assigned<br/>
to the first, its transmission and import-<br/>
ation to the second; the circumstances<br/>
and intermediate agents of such transmis-<br/>
sion to the third, while the fourth under-<br/>
took to examine the influence of large<br/>
gatherings of human beings on the inten-<br/>
sity and propagation of the disease. To<br/>
the fifth section was given the task of<br/>
resuming the facts thus ascertained, and<br/>
of deducing from them means for arres-<br/>
ting the progress of the disease, and the<br/>
labours of the sixth comprised the special<br/>
study of the epidemic of last year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inquiries of the first section were<br/>
directed towards India, regarded as the<br/>
birthplace of cholera since its first ap-<br/>
pearance in Europe. The disease, traced<br/>
to the earliest periods of Indian history,<br/>
seems to have disappeared towards the<br/>
close of the last century, reappearing in<br/>
1817 in the new and formidable charac-<br/>
ter of an invading pestilence. It spread<br/>
beyond the immediate confines of the<br/>
peninsula on several occasions in the<br/>
years immediately succeeding 1817, but<br/>
it was not till 1830 that it found its way<br/>
to Europe. This invasive tendency, ob-<br/>
serves the report, gave to the cholera the<br/>
character of a new disease. Since that<br/>
fatal epoch it has constantly threatened<br/>
mankind, not by any distinct or "fatal"<br/>
route, but by following the footsteps of<br/>
human beings as their passage offered<br/>
opportunities for its conveyance. It has<br/>
in no instance moved faster than the<br/>
human stream, while the rapidity of its<br/>
progress has increased in proportion to<br/>
the increased speed of communication<br/>
between distant countries. For this rea-<br/>
son, the Commission emphatically re-<br/>
pudiates the notion that the seeds of the<br/>
disease can be carried by the atmosphere.<br/>
Reverting to India, the Commission de-<br/>
clares its decided and unanimous opinion,<br/>
that every invasion of cholera since its<br/>
first appearance originated in India,<br/>
the birthplace of the malady, and where<br/>
it constantly remains in an endemic state.<br/>
In unison with the general opinion the<br/>
basin of the Ganges is declared to be the<br/>
focus of disease, and Calcutta is desig-<br/>
nated one of its principal strongholds;<br/>
but others are enumerated, amongst<br/>
which are Bombay and Arcot, near Mad-<br/>
ras.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The habits of the Hindoos and the<br/>
vast and reckless assemblages at Jug-<br/>
gernauth and elsewhere form, in the<br/>
opinion of the Commission, a quite suf-<br/>
ficient explanation of the extent and per-<br/>
tinacity of the Indian cholera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Commission, thus agreed in fixing<br/>
the origin of the cholera in Hindustan,<br/>
is almost equally unanimous in denying<br/>
that it originates or is permanently dom-<br/>
iciled elsewhere. It is admitted that in<br/>
the countries bordering on India the dis-<br/>
ease is so frequently present as almost to<br/>
appear endemic, but this frequency is<br/>
probably owing to the proximity of the<br/>
centre of the disease. The question of<br/>
the Hedjaz is especially and carefully<br/>
examined. It is allowed that the district<br/>
is at all times liable to sporadic cholera,<br/>
and the epidemic in its worst form has<br/>
shown itself very frequently during the<br/>
period of the pilgrimage. But the Com-<br/>
mission decidedly, and with the excep-<br/>
tion of Dr. Goodeve unanimously, rejec-<br/>
ted the notion that cholera had at any<br/>
period been spontaneously developed in<br/>
the Hedjaz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vital question of the transmission<br/>
of cholera which forms the next subject<br/>
of inquiry, is carefully and fully handled.<br/>
The report traces the line of choleraic<br/>
progress on various occasions, and shows<br/>
it to have concurred directly with the<br/>
line of march of human beings. In some<br/>
instances it distinctly followed the march<br/>
of armies. In America its first attacks<br/>
have in every case been made in the sea-<br/>
ports. Instances are given from several<br/>
choleraic periods showing the precise<br/>
mode in which the epidemic was brought<br/>
from place to place by human beings.<br/>
In the advance of last year it travelled<br/>
from the Hedjaz to Paris in three months<br/>
and a half, and its course, in accordance<br/>
with the usual traveling route, can be<br/>
clearly followed. In various remote spots<br/>
of Germany, too, its advent strictly coin-<br/>
cided with that of travelers from infect-<br/>
ed spots. It even appears that vessels<br/>
arriving from infected places may import<br/>
the disease, even though no person on<br/>
board be affected by it. One instance of<br/>
this occurred last year, when the cholera<br/>
appeared at Guadaloupe immediately af-<br/>
ter the arrival of a ship from Marseilles.<br/>
No case of the disease was on board, yet<br/>
no other vehicle of contagion existed.<br/>
The cases of importation by choleraic<br/>
vessels into the small islands of the West<br/>
Indies and the Indian Ocean, are extreme-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ly numerous. On this point, therefore,<br/>
the Commission unanimously decides that<br/>
the cholera is propagated by man, with<br/>
greater rapidity as the locomotion<br/>
of man himself becomes more active and<br/>
rapid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The transmission of cholera by human<br/>
agency is further proved by the progress<br/>
as well as by the first importation of the<br/>
disease. The development at Constan-<br/>
tinople last year followed the course of<br/>
communication between the several<br/>
quarters of the city. In the villages of<br/>
the Bosphorus its appearance was nearly<br/>
in every case contemporaneous with the<br/>
arrival of infected persons. The ap-<br/>
proach of even a diarrhoeic patient may,<br/>
according to the report, introduce cholera<br/>
in its worst form. Further proofs are ad-<br/>
duced from the success of strict quaran-<br/>
tine in effectually barring out the epide-<br/>
mic. Sicily and Greece are instanced as<br/>
having been thus preserved last year,—-<br/>
to which the Commission might have ad-<br/>
ded Tunis. Passing from man to his<br/>
companion or his property, there appear<br/>
to be no good grounds for suspecting the<br/>
lower animals to be agents in choleraic<br/>
transmission. It is, however, very differ-<br/>
ent with inanimate objects which have<br/>
been in contact with human bodies. Lin-<br/>
en which has been used by cholera pa-<br/>
tients, is pronounced to be a most dan-<br/>
gerous vehicle of the disease. Washer-<br/>
women have accordingly in every instance<br/>
been especially liable to attack. Clothes<br/>
brought from a distance have turned out<br/>
to be the cause of choleraic visitation in<br/>
remote places where the appearance of<br/>
the epidemic was at first altogether in-<br/>
explicable, and even ordinary goods<br/>
which have in no way served as clothing<br/>
may transmit the malady. On this most<br/>
important point the Commission declares<br/>
"that all effects of which use is made,<br/>
coming from an infected place, and es-<br/>
pecially those used by patients, may<br/>
transmit the cholera, even though kept<br/>
from contact with the air; and further,<br/>
that every article coming from an infect-<br/>
ed place should be considered as suspect-<br/>
ed. In the category of objects especially<br/>
dangerous are to be considered human<br/>
corpses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The effect of the disease on gatherings<br/>
of human beings is the next subject of<br/>
examination. The special gatherings<br/>
from which danger is to be apprehended<br/>
are these religious pilgrimages, the great<br/>
fairs of the East, and armies. On the<br/>
first the Commission expresses a strong<br/>
opinion. Whilst exonerating the Hedjaz<br/>
pilgrimages from the charge of origina-<br/>
ting the evil, it transfers the accusation<br/>
to the pilgrimages to Juggernauth and<br/>
the other great religious gatherings of<br/>
the Hindoos. The cholera, endemic in<br/>
the country, is developed and propagated<br/>
by those large gatherings of persons with-<br/>
out regard for life, decency, or safety,<br/>
and whose religious prejudices are above<br/>
all others at once the most provocative<br/>
of disease and the most difficult of man-<br/>
agement. After these gatherings, the<br/>
disease becomes epidemic in the greater<br/>
part of Hindostan, from whence under<br/>
favourable circumstances it spreads to<br/>
the outside world. Armies also are fav-<br/>
ourable to the reception of the contami-<br/>
nation and apt to carry it with them. But<br/>
troops are less liable to dispersion than<br/>
other assemblages, and the risk is there-<br/>
fore more limited. It is otherwise with<br/>
the great fairs, from whence the disease,<br/>
if once imported, is liable to be exten-<br/>
sively dispersed. The Commission con-<br/>
cludes on this point that "these three<br/>
great human conglomerations are one of<br/>
the most certain means of propagating<br/>
cholera, that they constitute the great<br/>
epidemic foci which import the disease<br/>
into the places which they traverse, and<br/>
that the attacks of the disease upon<br/>
these conglomerations—-commonly very<br/>
violent—in most cases rapidly disappear.<br/>
The Commission adds that the disease<br/>
may be arrested by dispersing these gath-<br/>
erings of human beings, but the danger<br/>
of its transmission elsewhere is thereby<br/>
increased.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With reference to the faction of the<br/>
epidemic upon masses of human beings,<br/>
the Commission has collected some curi-<br/>
ous facts. The mortality, it would ap-<br/>
pear, is not so great as might be expect-<br/>
ed on board ship, and is still less in the<br/>
lazarets. From the latter, however, it is<br/>
apt to spread to the neighbouring towns.<br/>
Instances are quoted of high rates of<br/>
mortality in vessels at sea; one of those<br/>
mentioned being that of the French fleet,<br/>
which suffered greatly from cholera dur-<br/>
ing the Crimean war, but such cases are<br/>
considered exceptional. Those who have<br/>
lived through a violent choleraic visita-<br/>
tion, are less liable to danger on the re-<br/>
turn of the epidemic, and may, according<br/>
to the report even be said to enjoy a<br/>
species of immunity from infection. The<br/>
ambient air is the great vehicle of conta-<br/>
gion, but acts as such at only a short dis-<br/>
tance from infected persons. A porous<br/>
soil impregnated with matter from a dis-<br/>
eased patient is a special source of mis-<br/>
chief, and may even renew the contagion<br/>
after the disease has become apparently<br/>
extinct. The Commission examines the<br/>
period of what is called the "incubation"<br/>
of cholera, the time elapsing between the<br/>
reception of the poison into the frame,<br/>
and the earliest manifestation of diarr-<br/>
hoea. This period appears never to ex-<br/>
tend beyond a few days. Finally, the<br/>
Commission observes that the real nature<br/>
and cause of the origin of cholera can<br/>
only be determined by strict inquiries<br/>
instituted at its birth place in the basin<br/>
of the Ganges.—FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
