---
linkTitle: 'September 26th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 26th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 26th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 61
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, September 27th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 38.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 p. m. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
Limited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of free seats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bible.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Tis a ray of purest light,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Beaming through the depths of night,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Brighter than ten thousand gems,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Or the costliest diadems.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Tis an Orb-—more radiant far<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Than the fairest evening star;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yes, the sun outshining even<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When it rides midway in heaven!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Tis a Fountain, pouring forth<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Streams of life to gladden earth;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Whence eternal blessings flow,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Antidote to human woe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Tis an Ocean, vast and clear,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In which rays divine appear,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bearing freight, the choicest store<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ever borne the wide earth o'er.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Tis a mine, far deeper, too,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Than man mortal ever go;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Search we may for many years,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Still some new, rich gems appears.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Blessed Bible! Precious Word!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Boon most sacred from the Lord;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Glory to His name be given<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For this best, rich gift of Heaven.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A place for the Bible.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY REV. R. P. WILLARD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ancient times it was customary for<br/>
a prophet, after writing a prophecy, to<br/>
nail up the parchment on the temple-<br/>
gate, that all the people might read it.<br/>
De Quincy, we think, asserts that a thing<br/>
is not necessarily published because it is<br/>
printed. Next to having a good book<br/>
circulated, it should be read. Once, in<br/>
Scotland, a persecution drove the people<br/>
to putting their Bible into corners. One<br/>
family concealed it under a great foot-<br/>
stool. It was a safe place, ever within<br/>
reach, and was read. We fear that<br/>
Christians now hide the Bible in corners<br/>
where it is read with difficulty. We fear<br/>
too many families keep the Word of God<br/>
quite out of reach, and further off than<br/>
the Scotchman's footstool.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is, first, the HALF-CORNER. This<br/>
is a nook on the most inconvenient shelf<br/>
in the old bookcase. If you examine the<br/>
spot carefully, you must dig down through<br/>
various strata of papers, magazines, Sun-<br/>
day school and hymn-books; then through<br/>
a heavier ledge of such solid reading as<br/>
Doddridge and Baxter have left us, ere<br/>
you come to the good Book below them<br/>
all, in the lowest stratum. In doing all<br/>
this, you must be sure not to disarrange<br/>
the shelf. The books must be left in the<br/>
same conical pile which has stood for fif-<br/>
ty years; and when you are through<br/>
reading, the Bible must be put back in<br/>
its old place in the corner, and the door<br/>
closed, as if it wasn't opened except on<br/>
Sundays. This is the rule of the house,<br/>
and nobody introduces himself to this<br/>
shelf-corner without regarding the house-<br/>
wife's orderly ways and conical bookpile.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is also the STAND-CORNER. This<br/>
is not quite so inconvenient. If a des-<br/>
perate sortie be made, a copy of the<br/>
Scriptures can be recovered without any-<br/>
thing more serious than overhauling a<br/>
dozen papers, spilling trinkets from the<br/>
work-basket, jogging the lamp, and over-<br/>
turning the apples from the glass vase.<br/>
Often a history of the Rebellion and the<br/>
child[?]n's Christmas primers will have to<br/>
be encountered. Whatever goes wrong,<br/>
one must not suppose for an instant that<br/>
the head of the family, who has burrowed<br/>
for so many years into this corner, ever<br/>
has any trouble; nor that the children<br/>
can ever be afraid of a book which is<br/>
seldom brought out except by upheavals<br/>
of everybody's things.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We might allude also to the TRUNK-<br/>
CORNER. While this is a safe place, the<br/>
objection is that trunks are now so deep<br/>
that, when a young man keeps his Bible<br/>
in this corner, it rarely sees the daylight.<br/>
It is so much easier, even on the Sab-<br/>
bath, to reach a copy of Dickens or<br/>
Shakespeare on the table than to stoop<br/>
so far for a spiritual book.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From all this we may safely affirm that<br/>
in most families the Word of God is too<br/>
much "laid on the shelf" and put into<br/>
corners. It is just as bad where the book,<br/>
soft with velvet, has such heavy golden<br/>
clasps that it is difficult to open. We<br/>
remember the Bible has been many times<br/>
locked to many; and, therefore,<br/>
this superstition of gold clasps<br/>
is half a lock to many; and is, there-<br/>
fore, unopened, or, like a money-box,<br/>
put away in a dark corner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If pains were taken to keep the Word<br/>
of God WITHIN REACH, our families<br/>
would read it far more. Many a soldier<br/>
during the war learned a new way of<br/>
reading the Bible, because he could al-<br/>
ways reach it, for he carried a copy<br/>
against his heart! Abolish, then, the old<br/>
corners. Start a fashion of leaving the<br/>
Bible on the table, where anybody can<br/>
take it up without attracting curiosity or<br/>
undermining the house. Have it printed<br/>
and bound for use. In type and ar-<br/>
rangement give it as lovely a face as any<br/>
book in the library. Not the great<br/>
quarto which would crush little Mary, of<br/>
six years, if she attempts to carry it to<br/>
her father before prayers; nor the tuode-<br/>
cimo, with type to blind the eyes and<br/>
make every page look alike. We prefer<br/>
a Bible with such a look inside that every<br/>
verse seems to say, "What do I mean?"<br/>
and every page at once, as you open<br/>
it, "Do I look like Paul's words, or<br/>
Christ's?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such a Bible, if not "laid away," will<br/>
be read. Such a book, with text-marks<br/>
and the owner's marginal notes, will at-<br/>
tract the eye at once. Just give it table-<br/>
room to get open; and it will have notice.<br/>
It will become the family book. And we<br/>
need only add that, when by-and-by the<br/>
minister is called in after some one dies<br/>
—a Christian, as they tell us—it will not<br/>
be necessary for him to make special in-<br/>
quiry for a Bible in the house, as is often<br/>
the case, that he may find the most ap-<br/>
propriate words for the introductory ser-<br/>
vice of the funeral.—INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Samuel Fiske.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following reminiscences of Rev.<br/>
Samuel Fiske, popularly known as "Dunn<br/>
Browne," are from an article in the last<br/>
CONGREGATIONAL QUARTERLY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professor Tyler says of him:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Entering Amherst College, in the<br/>
autumn of 1844, as, I believe, the young-<br/>
est, and, as I know, the smallest, and, as<br/>
his classmates will all agree, the brightest<br/>
and smartest of his class, he took at once<br/>
high rank as a scholar. Perhaps his<br/>
forte was in mathematics; but he excel-<br/>
led also in the classics; and all the depart-<br/>
ments. {{< news/indent2 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}I remember just where he sat, and<br/>
just how he looked, when he was a Junior<br/>
under my own instruction. In my mind's<br/>
eye I see him now, curled up in the corner<br/>
of his seat, scarcely occupying more room<br/>
than a kitten, playful as a kitten, too, still<br/>
the boy, and yet in promise the coming<br/>
man of his class, his eye flashing with in-<br/>
terest, his face beaming with intellectual<br/>
life and joy, and his whole body vibrat-<br/>
ing and throbbing in spontaneous sym-<br/>
pathy with his active mind."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many of his sallies are remembered, as<br/>
well as his drawing food for mirth even<br/>
from the Hebrew grammar. One re-<br/>
collection must suffice. At an examina-<br/>
tion of the class, by the professor in<br/>
theology, being questioned upon some<br/>
topic, he omitted one point, to which the<br/>
professor called his attention. He re-<br/>
membered, he said, that was treated, but<br/>
had forgotten how. "Well, sir," said<br/>
the professor, in his peculiar and genial<br/>
way, "suppose you were on a western<br/>
steamboat, and somebody should ask you<br/>
about that point, how would it do for you<br/>
to answer, that Professor — said<br/>
something about it, but you did not real-<br/>
ly know that?" "Ah," replied he,<br/>
"nobody will catch me on a western<br/>
steamboat without notes of Professor<br/>
—'s lectures under my arm!" The<br/>
imaginary scene was altogether too much<br/>
for the gravity of the professor and the<br/>
class.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1852, he returned to Amherst, where<br/>
he spent the next three years as tutor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Still a mere freshman, in apparent<br/>
age and size, and mistaken for such when<br/>
he first came upon the college grounds,<br/>
some of the fathers of the freshman-class<br/>
were disposed to patronise the young man,<br/>
and more fatherly sophomores undertook<br/>
to give him good advice touching his<br/>
duties to his superiors. He enjoyed the<br/>
mistake too well to correct it; and his<br/>
amusement was only equalled by their<br/>
surprise when they discovered their error<br/>
by finding him in the tutor's chair, and<br/>
themselves sitting under his instruction. A-<br/>
bout the same time a clergyman, laboring<br/>
under the same mistake, asked him if he<br/>
proposed to enter college. He replied<br/>
that he had about made up his mind to<br/>
take a shorter course into the ministry.<br/>
The clergyman proceeded to argue the<br/>
point, insisting on the superior value of<br/>
a college education, when the tutor en-<br/>
lightened him by saying, 'Perhaps you do<br/>
not understand my reasons for not enter-<br/>
ing college: it is because I have already<br/>
been through, and know all about it by<br/>
experience.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the call came for three hundred<br/>
thousand men, he entered the army as a<br/>
private soldier, but was soon promoted<br/>
to the rank of captain, and fell at the<br/>
head of his command, on the second day<br/>
of the battle of the Wilderness, and died<br/>
after sixteen days of suffering. His last<br/>
hours are thus described:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"When a surgical examination had re-<br/>
moved the last ground of hope for his<br/>
recovery, and a chill came over him,<br/>
which he took for the last, he said, 'Now,<br/>
death can't be far off;' but presently he<br/>
added, 'heaven is a better country than<br/>
this.' Then, turning to his brother, he<br/>
inquired, 'Ass, do you think heaven<br/>
comes right off, that is, immediately after<br/>
death? Well; I shall be there and know<br/>
all about it pretty soon.' Then followed<br/>
messages of love to absent friends, tender<br/>
words to those by his side, particular<br/>
charges touching his 'darling' children,<br/>
and thoughtful instructions about his<br/>
affairs—-all as calm and tranquil as if he<br/>
were in perfect health. The last night<br/>
of his life, as his brother was sitting by<br/>
his side, at midnight, he seemed to be<br/>
awake and thinking. Presently, he said,<br/>
"I have been running everything over in<br/>
my mind, to see if I had left anything<br/>
undone towards them;' meaning his wife<br/>
and children. 'I can't think of anything<br/>
I have left.' When assured that he had<br/>
remembered everything, and had nothing<br/>
to do but just to lay himself in Jesus'<br/>
arms, and rest, he smiled as if well pleas-<br/>
ed; and when asked, 'You can love<br/>
and trust Him?' he said, 'Yes, I can,<br/>
perfectly.' They repeated hymns to<br/>
him, such as 'Jesus, lover of my soul,' <br/>
and 'Rock of ages, cleft for me;' and he<br/>
repeated them after them. His brother<br/>
happening to pass between him and the<br/>
light, he asked, 'Who is that?' 'Your<br/>
brother Asa; you must not forget him.'<br/>
Instantly carrying the significance of the<br/>
words forward to that world whither he<br/>
was so soon going, he said, 'heaven must<br/>
be a very forgetful place if I do.' Sab-<br/>
bath morning, the salutation, 'To-day I<br/>
shall get my marching orders; well, I am<br/>
ready.' His brother asked him how he<br/>
had rested. 'Oh, beautifully!' he an-<br/>
swered, 'just like a sleeping angel.' Then<br/>
he smiled, and added, 'But I don't look<br/>
much like one, do I?' Thus cheerfully<br/>
did he obey his last orders—-thus natural-<br/>
ly did he die, just as he lived—-just like<br/>
himself; thus beautifully did he pass<br/>
from the Sabbath on earth to the Sab-<br/>
bath in heaven. And now he has fought<br/>
his last fight, and conquered the last<br/>
enemy."—PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, August 25TH.-—Treaty of<br/>
peace signed yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria consented to cede Venetia to<br/>
Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson has resolved to<br/>
abandon prosecuting the Fenians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
August 27TH.—-The King of Prussia<br/>
in reply to the address of the Chamber<br/>
of Deputies stated that while acknow-<br/>
ledging the right of the Chamber con-<br/>
cerning budget, yet should conflict be<br/>
renewed, Government would repeat pre-<br/>
vious course of action.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AUGUST 28TH.—The difficulties be-<br/>
tween the United States and Mexico in-<br/>
creasing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Treaty of peace between Austria and<br/>
Prussia stated to be ratified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rent (Great) reform demonstration<br/>
at Birmingham.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AUGUST 29TH.—The Treaty alliance<br/>
between Prussia, Oldenburg and Aus-<br/>
tria.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian Treaty is merely an amplifica-<br/>
tion Treaty peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EUROPEAN SUMMARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE HOME NEWS, AUGUST 3.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Atlantic cable has been complet-<br/>
ed. The Queen has sent a congratulatory<br/>
message to the President, to which the<br/>
President has replied; and numerous<br/>
messages have been exchanged between<br/>
the two countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera is spreading with rapidity in the<br/>
east of London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A monster Reform meeting has been<br/>
held in Islington, and lesser meetings<br/>
elsewhere in London, at which resolu-<br/>
tions were passed denouncing the con-<br/>
duct of Government. Tranquillity is<br/>
restored.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Secretary of the Interior in the<br/>
American Cabinet has resigned. Gene-<br/>
rals Grant and Sherman have been pro-<br/>
moted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The King of Italy has been warmly<br/>
received at Padua, where he has fixed<br/>
his headquarters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Napier has declined the appoint-<br/>
ment of Lord Justice of Appeal in Ire-<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tennessee has been restored to the<br/>
right of representation in Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera is extending in New York.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ministers have brought in a bill for<br/>
continuing the Habeas Corpus Act in<br/>
Ireland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Tyler's report on the acceler-<br/>
ation of the Anglo-Indian mails has been<br/>
laid before Parliament. It recommends<br/>
the abandonment of the Marseilles route<br/>
for another by the port of Brindisi in<br/>
Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Warrants have been obtained by the<br/>
American cousul for the seizure of seven<br/>
ships in Liverpool alleged to belong to<br/>
the Confederacy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The approaching visit of the Ameri-<br/>
can fleet is hailed with enthusiasm in St.<br/>
Petersburg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Martial law has been re-established in<br/>
New Orleans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague has disappeared in<br/>
Ireland.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson has signed the bill<br/>
re-admitting Tennessee, but sent a mes-<br/>
sage to Congress stating that his signa-<br/>
ture was not to be considered as admit-<br/>
ting the right of Congress to pass laws<br/>
preliminary to the admission of States,<br/>
nor as committing himself to the state-<br/>
ments made in the preamble. The Ra-<br/>
dical members received portions of the<br/>
message with derisive laughter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President had permitted the as-<br/>
sembly of the Texan legislature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Judiciary Committee of the House<br/>
of Representatives have reported that<br/>
there is no probable cause to believe that<br/>
Mr. Davis was privy to the assassination<br/>
of President Lincoln. The committee<br/>
recommend a further investigation and<br/>
speedy trial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From a later despatch, dated July 29,<br/>
we quote the following items:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The passage of the bill revising the<br/>
neutrality laws by the House of Repre-<br/>
sentatives has created much excitement<br/>
in Fenian circles, and it is believed that<br/>
the measure was carried in consequence<br/>
of the sympathy felt by the Radicals for<br/>
the Fenians. The bill, though general in<br/>
its applications, is regarded as having a<br/>
particular bearing upon the Fenian move-<br/>
ment. Previous to its passage prominent<br/>
Fenians had been in frequent consulta-<br/>
tion with several of the leading Radical<br/>
members, and have been on the floor of<br/>
the House watching the debate upon the<br/>
bill. Colonel Roberts, the Head Con-<br/>
gressmen, including Banks, of Mas-<br/>
sachusetts. Journals sympathising with<br/>
the Fenians interpret the new law so as<br/>
to permit the sale of war vessels and<br/>
material to the Fenians, and predict the<br/>
resuscitation of the Brotherhood and the<br/>
speedy development of hostile purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate passed—-24 to 19-—the bill<br/>
admitting Nebraska into the Union as a<br/>
State. Mr. Sumner, of Massachusetts,<br/>
opposed the bill on the ground that the<br/>
constitution of Nebraska limited the right<br/>
of suffrage to white men.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FRANCE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DEMAND OF FRANCE FOR THE RESTORA-
TION OF THE RHINE PROVINCES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have just received the following<br/>
by telegram from Paris:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The French Cabinet has addressed<br/>
a note to the Prussian government poin-<br/>
ting out that the great changes in the<br/>
political organisation of Germany render<br/>
it necessary that the French frontier<br/>
should be rectified by a cession of ter-<br/>
ritory to France. The French Cabinet<br/>
made, on August 8, a further communi-<br/>
cation to the cabinet of Berlin, demand-<br/>
ing the restoration of the French frontier<br/>
as it existed in 1814."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ‘Siecle’ of to-day, August 10,<br/>
says:—-“France, in view of the consi-<br/>
deration aggrandisement of Prussia, is<br/>
said to have opened negotiations with the<br/>
Berlin Cabinet relative to the Rhine<br/>
frontier. Prussia has not yet thought fit<br/>
to entertain the French propositions.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Anti-Slavery Society.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The thirty-third anniversary of the<br/>
American Anti-Slavery Society was held<br/>
on Tuesday, May 8th, in the Church of the<br/>
Puritans. The chair was taken at 10 o'clock<br/>
by Mr. Wendell Phillips, President of the<br/>
Society. Theodore Tilton, Lucretia Mott,<br/>
Susan B. Anthony and Mrs. Stanton oc-<br/>
cupied seats on the platform.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proceedings were opened with pray-<br/>
er by the Rev. George H. Hepworth, of<br/>
Boston. Letters from Hon. Charles Sum-<br/>
ner and Chief-Justice Chase, and others,<br/>
were read.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Phillips read the following resolu-<br/>
tions, having previously stated that they<br/>
would form the subject of discussion at<br/>
the meeting:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That considering what the<br/>
nation owes the negro, what it has pro-<br/>
mised him, and remembering the lesson of<br/>
the war, it is evident there is no course for<br/>
us to tread, either safe, just, or honorable,<br/>
except to guarantee to him at once every<br/>
political right enjoyed by every citizen, in<br/>
the same circumstances. Every other<br/>
path is alike deathly and infamous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That the present condition of<br/>
the negro is one of nominal freedom, but<br/>
of suffering almost equal with that he en-<br/>
dured under the yoke, of entire dependence<br/>
on the white race for every privilege, and<br/>
the recognition of every right—that no<br/>
mere enactment of Congress can alter this,<br/>
unless it makes him in every respect the<br/>
absolute equal of the white man before<br/>
the law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That the Southern States may<br/>
see the history and future of policy they<br/>
are initiating in the glass of Jamaica, and<br/>
find that every attempt to cheat the eman-<br/>
cipated negro out of substantial freedom<br/>
incurs bankruptcy, wrecks property, and<br/>
ends in blood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That the Rebellion has not<br/>
ceased; it has only changed its weapons.<br/>
Once it fought, now it intrigues; once it<br/>
followed Lee in arms, now it follows<br/>
President Johnson in guile and chicanery;<br/>
once it had its headquarters in Richmond,<br/>
now it encamps in the White House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That the President has be-<br/>
trayed the loyal North: is bent on giving<br/>
it over, bound hand foot, into the hands<br/>
of its once conquered foe; that he should<br/>
long ago have been impeached for gross<br/>
usurpation in his manifest use of his<br/>
high powers to aid Rebellion, and for the<br/>
treasonable purpose of defeating the secure<br/>
and peaceful settlement of the nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That the cordial thanks of the<br/>
nation, especially of the Abolitionists, are<br/>
due to the clear-sighted and devoted cour-<br/>
age of Congress for its check and rebuke<br/>
to treason by passing the Civil Rights bill<br/>
over the veto of the Southern leader.<br/>
[Applause.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved That we demand of Congress,<br/>
as clearly within its constitutional author-<br/>
ity, to secure, by appropriate legislation,<br/>
his political rights, especially the right of<br/>
suffrage, to every citizen of the United<br/>
States (applause); to assert as a principle<br/>
of national law definitely settled by the<br/>
defeat of the Rebellion in the field, that no<br/>
State is REPUBLICAN in a constitutional<br/>
and national sense which makes any dis-<br/>
tinction in civil or political rights among<br/>
its citizens on account of race or descent;<br/>
and thirdly to call on the loyal citizens of<br/>
the late rebellious States to assemble, by<br/>
delegates in Convention in such State, and<br/>
form for it a State Constitution and State<br/>
measures to regain its place in Congress<br/>
by choice of senators and representatives:<br/>
but that the basis of final settlement should<br/>
be universal suffrage and universal amnes-<br/>
ty. (Applause.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That once a compromise of<br/>
great principles for immediate ends might<br/>
have had some plausible defense; but,<br/>
to-day, and in this crisis, whoever pur-<br/>
poses to settle any national issue on any<br/>
basis but that of absolute justice mistakes<br/>
his time—has failed to learn the lesson of<br/>
the War—postpones justice, weakens liberty,<br/>
jeopards nationality, and is a worse traitor,<br/>
because a more dangerous one, than any<br/>
armed Rebel has been for the last four<br/>
years. Better defeat on a true basis than<br/>
success on a compromise of rights. (Ap-<br/>
plause.) Better that the Rebels should take<br/>
possession of the Government in 1868 than<br/>
thwart the course of events and surrender<br/>
the fruits of victory by agreeing to any<br/>
compromise which accepts peace on terms<br/>
unjust to any race, interest, or section.<br/>
[Applause.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Resolved, That when Representatives<br/>
and Senators forgot the last four years, and<br/>
imitated the truckling politicians of our<br/>
disgraceful eras, by admitting the white<br/>
aristocracy of Colorado as a Republican<br/>
State into this Union—they stultified<br/>
themselves, betrayed the North, and every<br/>
the Traitor of the White House and the<br/>
Rebels of the South an unanswerable ar-<br/>
gument against all their hollow zeal for<br/>
justice and freedom. [Great applause.]<br/>
NEW YORK OBSERVER
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
September 27th, 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Great Events.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By our last European mails—-the<br/>
one by the “Seewoon” the other by<br/>
the “Chow Phya” we have it fully<br/>
confirmed that two great events have<br/>
recently occurred in the Western<br/>
world well worthy of signalizing any<br/>
year, even this which has long been<br/>
anticipated and accounted by Biblical<br/>
scholars as the greatest, in some res-<br/>
pects, of all the years that have come<br/>
and gone since the commencement of<br/>
the christian era. We allude to the<br/>
successful working of the Atlantic<br/>
Telegraph line, and the new division<br/>
of political power in Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The successful working of the At-<br/>
lantic Telegraph, we are persuaded, is<br/>
an event which has wrapped up in it<br/>
oceans of future good and glory to<br/>
our world, and will be opened for her<br/>
use with great rapidity by Him who<br/>
is the Wisdom the Counsellor the<br/>
Mighty God over all. Already has it<br/>
narrowed the Atlantic ocean to a small<br/>
river so that persons can converse to-<br/>
gether from shore to shore. Already<br/>
Europe and America are saluting each<br/>
other daily by the hearty good morning;<br/>
and are hourly talking together on the<br/>
great topics of Church and State.<br/>
The great transactions of the two con-<br/>
tinents are now being hourly brought<br/>
with lightning rapidity to each others<br/>
doors, and the business men on either<br/>
continent have only to step to their<br/>
doors at any time to hear of all the<br/>
great and leading events that are<br/>
transpiring on either hemisphere. And<br/>
this magnificent work is going to give<br/>
birth to a multitude of other Atlantic<br/>
Telegraphs in rapid succession, until<br/>
messages between the Eastern and<br/>
Western worlds will be carried by<br/>
lightning in continual floods.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And with regard to the new divi-<br/>
sion of power in Europe, it appears to<br/>
us that sublime strides have been<br/>
made towards popular rule and per-<br/>
fection in human government—That<br/>
absolutism in Europe has received its<br/>
death warrant—-That Popery is now<br/>
entirely girdled and must soon die—<br/>
That Rome is shut up in liberated<br/>
Italy and cannot long hold out against<br/>
the tide of Italian progress by which<br/>
she is becoming more and more cir-<br/>
cumscribed in her civil and religious<br/>
despotism—-That France ceases to be<br/>
a dictator to the European nations—-<br/>
That Austria, having been thoroughly<br/>
humbled can no longer cramp Italy<br/>
nor have a word to say in the rule of<br/>
any of the German States—-That Prus-<br/>
sia, while in the pride of her heart,<br/>
she thought to enlarge her borders and<br/>
establish an absolute monarchy has<br/>
been made by the “King of kings”<br/>
to work wondrous good by consolida-<br/>
ting Germany and constituting her<br/>
essentially a limited monarchy in<br/>
which she herself can have only her<br/>
due proportion of power, but united<br/>
with her sister states will become the<br/>
bulwark of Europe, contrasted with<br/>
which even France cannot hope to be<br/>
first.-—That in France the principles<br/>
of popular government have received<br/>
a great impetus by the steps which<br/>
Napoleon III took to enlarge his em-<br/>
pire and establish his absolutism-—And<br/>
that finally England, comparatively<br/>
free from absolutism as she has long<br/>
been, feels stimulated by what she has<br/>
witnessed in the U. S. and by what<br/>
she is seeing on the continent of Eu-<br/>
rope to renewed courage and effort in<br/>
seeking still more advancement in the<br/>
principles of liberty and popular gov-<br/>
ernment, and will never be quiet until<br/>
aristocracy has been thoroughly era-<br/>
dicated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Sandwich Islands.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having recently received a very in-<br/>
teresting book titled The Hawaiian<br/>
Islands by Rev. R. Anderson D. D.<br/>
senior secretary of the A. B. C. F. M.<br/>
we propose to write a series of articles<br/>
for the Recorder based on the inform-<br/>
ation this book gives concerning those<br/>
Islands. Our main object is to show<br/>
what the gospel has done for that<br/>
once most benighted, degraded, and<br/>
barbarous people, and what it is wait-<br/>
ing to do for the Siamese whom we<br/>
may regard as standing on the thresh-<br/>
hold of civilisation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hawaiian Islands have general-<br/>
ly been denominated The Sandwich<br/>
Islands, a name given to them by<br/>
Capt Ja. Cook who was the first Eu-<br/>
ropean to discover them in 1778. But<br/>
this name is not recognized in the<br/>
constitution and laws of the Islands.<br/>
They are known by the people and<br/>
the Laws only as The Hawaiian Is-<br/>
lands, the largest isle of the group giv-<br/>
ing name to the ten. Their respective<br/>
names are Hawaii, Maui, Mo-lo-kini,<br/>
Ka-hu-la-we, La-nai, Mo-lo-kai, Kau-<br/>
ai, Ni-i-hau, and Kau-la. They are<br/>
situated about midway in the Pacific<br/>
Ocean between Panama and Canton,<br/>
and very nearly in a strait line from<br/>
the two places—-their direction from<br/>
Panama being about West one point<br/>
North. The group are nearly all in a<br/>
line stretching N. E. & S. E.—-Ha-<br/>
waii being the most southerly. They<br/>
lie between 18°50' and 22°20' North<br/>
latitude; and 154°53' and 160°15'<br/>
west longitude from Greenwich. Their<br/>
distance from Canton is 4800, from<br/>
Japan 3400, and from Sidney in Aus-<br/>
tralia but little more than from Can-<br/>
ton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. William Ellis, an English<br/>
Missionary, in his narrative of a Tour<br/>
through the island of Hawaii in 1823<br/>
thus states the comparative sizes of the<br/>
group.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>Square miles</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Hawaii</td>
 <td>77 m.</td>
 <td>73 m.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Maui</td>
 <td>48</td>
 <td>29</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">600</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Kabulawili</td>
 <td>10</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Lanai</td>
 <td>17</td>
 <td>9</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Moloka</td>
 <td>40</td>
 <td>7</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">170</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oahu</td>
 <td>46</td>
 <td>25</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">520</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Kanai</td>
 <td>33</td>
 <td>25</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">520</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Niihan</td>
 <td>20</td>
 <td>7</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">80</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">_________</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6050</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kaula<br/>
Molokini } little more than barren rocks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The order in which the islands are<br/>
named in the above table, is the same<br/>
in which they are situated in a line<br/>
stretching from the S. E. to the N.<br/>
E. excepting the island Kanai which<br/>
lies due west from Hawaii. There<br/>
is every evidence that the whole<br/>
group had a volcanic origin. On the<br/>
island of Hawaii there is now a<br/>
grand volcanic crater, which occasion-<br/>
ally sends out floods of melted lava.<br/>
The islands were thrown up from the<br/>
abyss of the Pacific so many ages<br/>
since as that a good depth of soil is<br/>
found generally on each of them, ex-<br/>
cepting Kaula and Molokini. Forests<br/>
abound in the mountains. The valleys<br/>
are excellent for the growth of sugar<br/>
cane, which was found to be indigi-<br/>
nous, growing very large without<br/>
under cultivation. It has since been brought<br/>
under cultivation with the best results.<br/>
A root, called by the islanders taro,<br/>
which is the arum esculentum a-<br/>
bounds on the islands, and has from time<br/>
immemorial been the staff of life to the<br/>
natives, until latterly they have learn-<br/>
ed to rely as much, if not more, upon<br/>
other food. They also have a kind of<br/>
sweet potatoe which grows very large,<br/>
and would appear to be about as rich<br/>
in saccharine matter as the white sweet<br/>
potatoe of Siam. Bread-fruit, cocoanut,<br/>
banana, Ohilo (a berry, Ohia a juicy<br/>
red apple) arrowroot, strawberry, and<br/>
raspberry are the principal indigenous<br/>
fruits of the islands. Oranges, limes,<br/>
citrons, grapes, pine apples, pa paw ap-<br/>
ples, cucumbers, and watermellons<br/>
had been introduced as early as 1823.<br/>
Beans, onions, pumpkins, and cab-<br/>
bages, seem to have been added to<br/>
the vegetables since.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the time of the discovery of the<br/>
Islands there were only three kinds<br/>
of quadrupeds to be found on them—viz.,<br/>
a species of hog, a small lizard, and an<br/>
animal a little larger than a mouse.<br/>
The hogs, being wild, were sometimes<br/>
ferocious; but with this exception and<br/>
a small centipede, there was nothing<br/>
among animals “to hurt or destroy<br/>
on the islands. Goats, sheep, horses,<br/>
and cattle were brought there from<br/>
California, and the latter were abun-<br/>
dant as early as 1823. Sheep thrive<br/>
well on the mountain sides but not<br/>
on the plains as it is there are too warm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are but few land birds, among<br/>
which are enumerated a kind of owl,<br/>
a purple paraquet, red, yellow, and green<br/>
woodpeckers, wild geese, and ducks.<br/>
The feathers of the woodpecker were<br/>
in great repute for decorating the<br/>
helmets and cloaks of the chiefs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The climate of the islands is excel-<br/>
lent. “Much of the weather at all<br/>
seasons is delightful; the sky cloud-<br/>
less, the atmosphere clear and bracing.<br/>
Nothing can exceed the brilliancy of<br/>
the moonlight nights.” Thunder<br/>
storms are of the most agreeable kind,<br/>
very rarely heavy, or at all fearful.<br/>
And hurricanes are unknown. “The<br/>
general temperature of the islands ap-<br/>
proaches near the point regarded by<br/>
physiologists as most conducive to<br/>
health and longevity.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following Meteorological table<br/>
kept by the American Missionaries<br/>
gives much information in regard to<br/>
the climate. The thermometrical ob-<br/>
servations were noted at 8 A. M.<br/>
3 P. M. and 8 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_5 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17d">
        <p class="r17b">Months.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17e">
        <p class="r17b">Greatest</p>
        <p class="r17b">Heat.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17f">
        <p class="r17b">Least</p>
        <p class="r17b">Heat.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r180">
        <p class="r17b">Range.</p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="3" valign="bottom" class="r181">
        <p class="r17b">General</p>
        <p class="r17b">Range.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r182">
        <p class="r17b">Mean</p>
        <p class="r17b">Temp.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17e">
        <p class="r17b">General</p>
        <p class="r17b">Course</p>
        <p class="r17b">of Wind.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r183">
        <p class="r17b">General state of the weather</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r184">
        <p class="r17c">August, 1821</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r185">
        <p class="r17b">88°</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r186">
        <p class="r17b">74°</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r187">
        <p class="r17b">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r188">
        <p class="r17b">73</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r189">
        <p class="r17b">to</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18a">
        <p class="r17b">87°</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18b">
        <p class="r17b">79°</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r185">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18c">
        <p class="r17c">Clear; rain but once.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">September.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">87</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">74</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">76</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">84</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Rained on five days.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r196">
        <p class="r17c">October.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">88</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r198">
        <p class="r17b">71</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r199">
        <p class="r17b">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r17b">76</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19b">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19c">
        <p class="r17b">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19d">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19e">
        <p class="r17c">Clear; rain but once.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">November.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">85</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">73</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">80</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">76</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Clear; rain but once.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r196">
        <p class="r17c">December.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">82</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r198">
        <p class="r17b">71</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r199">
        <p class="r17b">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r17b">70</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19b">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19c">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19d">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">N. &amp; N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19e">
        <p class="r17c">Clear; rain twice.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">January, 1822</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">80</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">62</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">68</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">76</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">70</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">Variable.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Variable. Rain 1 day; 7 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">February.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">80</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">53</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">65</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">70</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Rain 4 days; 10 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r196">
        <p class="r17c">March.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">77</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r198">
        <p class="r17b">61</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r199">
        <p class="r17b">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r17b">71</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19b">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19c">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19d">
        <p class="r17b">71</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19e">
        <p class="r17c">Rain 5 days; 8 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">April.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">61</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">72</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">73</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">Variable.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Variable. Rain 5 days; 12 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r196">
        <p class="r17c">May.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">81</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r198">
        <p class="r17b">62</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r199">
        <p class="r17b">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19a">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19b">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19c">
        <p class="r17b">80</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19d">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r197">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19e">
        <p class="r17c">Rain 4 days; 8 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18d">
        <p class="r17c">June.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">81</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18f">
        <p class="r17b">69</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r190">
        <p class="r17b">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r191">
        <p class="r17b">70</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r192">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r193">
        <p class="r17b">81</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r194">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18e">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r195">
        <p class="r17c">Cloudy 6 days.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19f">
        <p class="r17c">July.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a0">
        <p class="r17b">84</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a1">
        <p class="r17b">71</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a2">
        <p class="r17b">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a3">
        <p class="r17b">76</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a4">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a5">
        <p class="r17b">83</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a6">
        <p class="r17b">78</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a0">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a7">
        <p class="r17c">Rain 5 days; 7 others cloudy.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="top" class="r1a8">
        <p class="r17c">Result for the year.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1a9">
        <p class="r17b">88</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1aa">
        <p class="r17b">69</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1ab">
        <p class="r17b">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1ac">
        <p class="r17b">70</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1ad">
        <p class="r17b">-</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1ae">
        <p class="r17b">84</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1af">
        <p class="r17b">75</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1a9">
        <p class="r17b">N. E.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="top" class="r1b0">
        <p class="r17c">Rain on 40 days; generally clear</p>
        <p class="r17c">at other times.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The population of the group was<br/>
estimated by CAPT. COOK at the time<br/>
of their discovery at 400,000 but this<br/>
is regarded by the Missionaries as be-<br/>
ing too large. The latter estimated<br/>
the population at the time of their ar-<br/>
rival in 1820 to be about 150,000-—a<br/>
little more then half of which belong-<br/>
ed to Hawaii. But they found much<br/>
evidence that the population had once<br/>
been much greater.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kamchamoha was the most power-<br/>
ful chief among many who ruled the<br/>
islands. His rule was limited to<br/>
Hawaii and did not even embrace the<br/>
whole of it. His power gradually ex-<br/>
tended until he had the undisputed<br/>
possession of all the islands several<br/>
years afterwards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inhabitants of the islands are<br/>
supposed to have had their origin from<br/>
the Malay tribes, as their features and<br/>
complexion are the same and many of<br/>
their words very similar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Judging from the genealogy which<br/>
their chiefs have kept it would seem<br/>
that they have been a people under<br/>
rulers more than 70 reigns.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Murder Case.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Judge Koon Klang has replied to<br/>
our report of the murder of a priest at<br/>
Wat Sangkachai, and we have just<br/>
published his letter in our last issue<br/>
of the Siamese Recorder. He admits<br/>
that the murder did indeed occur at<br/>
the place and time reported, but de-<br/>
nies that he ever received any bribe<br/>
for the liberation of the prisoners, and<br/>
affirms that they have not been liberat-<br/>
ed, but are still held as prisoners,<br/>
awaiting a more thorough trial of the<br/>
case. The Judge unwittingly reveals a<br/>
great weakness in the Siamese Judi-<br/>
ciary, by saying that the trial of the<br/>
case has been thus long deferred be-<br/>
cause many persons who should appear<br/>
as witnesses have fled from their homes<br/>
beyond call of the court in fear of the<br/>
vindictiveness of the powerful friends<br/>
of the prisoners in case they should be<br/>
required to give their testimony. In<br/>
our Siamese paper we have taken<br/>
notice of this imbecility of the Judi-<br/>
ciary system, and have expressed our<br/>
fears that it but too plainly shows that<br/>
the courts of Siam are so loose in their<br/>
parts as to incapacitate them for trust-<br/>
worthy service, like a watch rattling<br/>
about in its case-—pins out-—balance<br/>
wheel unsteady—-and consequently<br/>
stopping, and then going most unfaith-<br/>
fully to the great annoyance of its<br/>
possessor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the Judge does not deny that<br/>
money was paid to somebody by the<br/>
friends of the prisoners, and thinking<br/>
that he might perhaps hope to clear<br/>
himself of guilt in the matter by say-<br/>
ing that he did not receive the money<br/>
or that it was not received as a bribe,<br/>
we took occasion to say in reply to<br/>
him that any money received either<br/>
by the Judge or his assistants from<br/>
the friends of either party while the<br/>
suit was ponding, would by all right-<br/>
eous laws be accounted a bribe, and<br/>
would be condemned as an outrage of<br/>
Justice, and render the recipient of<br/>
such money liable to severe punish-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That letter of the Judge also brings<br/>
out into clear light the terrible power<br/>
this people, especially the more infla-<br/>
ential, have to silence faithful witness-<br/>
ing in their courts of judicature. To<br/>
give in faithful testimony in these<br/>
courts often proves to be the opening<br/>
of flood-gates of apprehension and<br/>
sorrow upon the persons, families<br/>
and relatives of the witnessess; and it<br/>
is so dreadful in the anticipation as to<br/>
lead those liable to be suspensed to<br/>
flee their homes and hide as it were<br/>
in the wilderness or "in dens and<br/>
caves of the earth" from an approach-<br/>
ing trial like the one we are contem-<br/>
plating. There seems to be no pow-<br/>
er in the government to controal or<br/>
check this power of reeking person-<br/>
al vengeance on men, especially those<br/>
who witness against wrong doing.<br/>
The fear of it runs through all grades<br/>
of society from the highest to the low-<br/>
est, so that it is next to impossible to<br/>
get even an hired man or woman to<br/>
testify of any wrong action in a fellow<br/>
servant however truthful the testimony<br/>
rendered might be, or however much<br/>
needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that the govern-<br/>
ment has been waked up by car re-<br/>
port of that case of murder, and that<br/>
the prospect is, that something thorough<br/>
will be done in regard to it. There<br/>
does not seem to be any reason to<br/>
doubt that the prisoners were about the<br/>
same as liberated, and that the people in<br/>
the neighborhood had much reason to<br/>
think that the trial of the murderers<br/>
was to be dropped, and thus Robbery<br/>
and Murder be left to run rampant and<br/>
wild among them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The late Eclipse.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The natives had been anticipating<br/>
much fun on the evening of the 21st<br/>
inst. as they had been informed that<br/>
the moon would on that eve. at 7<br/>
49 o'clock, be totally eclipsed, and<br/>
would be visible at Bangkok, provi-<br/>
ded of course that the clouds should<br/>
be propitious. This event, always to<br/>
them exciting, they knew was to occur<br/>
in the wettest of the wet season, and<br/>
the past week had shown a remar-<br/>
kable predilection for the evening time as<br/>
being the best for pouring down<br/>
rain. But the evening previous being<br/>
an exception, with the moon shining<br/>
in great glory, the people calculated<br/>
that that gracious dispensation would<br/>
almost of course be continued into an-<br/>
other night. Hence many of the<br/>
would-be-learned young men, we fan-<br/>
cy, had learned by calculations (from<br/>
the Bangkok Calendar of course) the<br/>
time of the first contact of the penum-<br/>
bra—-the middle—-and the last of the<br/>
contact. And many of them who by<br/>
the flourishing of commerce these lat-<br/>
ter years have become affluent, at<br/>
least enough so to own and carry a<br/>
watch with much show of gold chains,<br/>
key, and seals, had no doubt anticipated<br/>
the hour, and set their time pieces by<br/>
the semi-monthly calendar we publish<br/>
in the Siamese Recorder; and not a<br/>
few, we presume, had determined to<br/>
turn the eclipse into an occasion of<br/>
gambling, as they do nearly everything<br/>
else, and had staked wagers with re-<br/>
gard to it. Others had got their gins,<br/>
drums, gongs, bells, and whatnots in-<br/>
numerable ready for making a great<br/>
noise at the temples and private dwel-<br/>
lings to show their sympathy for the<br/>
Queen of night in her hour of agony,<br/>
going down into the belly of the monster<br/>
Rahoo. And the more enlightened<br/>
while seeing no reason for the notion<br/>
about Rahoo could not well forego the<br/>
sport according to old and loved cus-<br/>
toms, had prepared themselves for len-<br/>
ding aid to the universal frolic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But alas! there came up late in<br/>
the afternoon of that day portentous<br/>
clouds, surcharged with electricity, and<br/>
brought out the whole artillery of the<br/>
heavens into extraordinary action until<br/>
late in the evening; and never perhaps<br/>
was the moon more densely covered by<br/>
clouds than then—-so that every hope<br/>
of seeing her until after the eclipse<br/>
seemed by all to be lost. No native<br/>
appeared to have faith enough in his<br/>
calculations for the eclipse to act by<br/>
faith only. Nothing could be done<br/>
without sight. Not a note of the least<br/>
sympathy for the moon was heard in<br/>
any quarter until one third of her face<br/>
had emerged from the eclipse about half<br/>
past 10 o'clock, when the clouds broke<br/>
away just enough to show the disk of<br/>
the moon dimly. The few who had<br/>
managed to keep awake and on the<br/>
look out for it, were then convinced<br/>
that the moon had indeed been swal-<br/>
lowed up or down somewhere, and was<br/>
then being delivered, and that it was<br/>
high time to begin the demonstrations<br/>
of joy. Some of them fired guns,<br/>
others beat gongs, and some rang bells,<br/>
and fired crackers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The effort seemed sleepy and feeble<br/>
at the beginning; but it quickly woke<br/>
up the whole city, and there seemed<br/>
to be a great turn out, as it were to<br/>
redeem the time that had been lost in<br/>
doubting. The noise was so uproarious<br/>
and so unseasonable that the thousands<br/>
of crows roosting on trees near our<br/>
house were terribly scared, and flew<br/>
about in the dead of night in much<br/>
confusion, adding their notes ha ha<br/>
kalawa to the universal jargon. And<br/>
the thousands of dogs in the city were<br/>
alarmed and set up barking and howl-<br/>
ing for the space of half an hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DOMESTIC OCCURRENCES
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Birth.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sept. 21st at her residence in this<br/>
city, Mrs. Graham, of a Daughter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Deaths.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sept. 16th of Dysan'y, G. H.<br/>
Hall, Engineer, deceased wasan Ameri-<br/>
can citizen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sept. 20th of Dysentery, W.<br/>
Baulsou, 1st. Engineer at Borneo<br/>
Company's Rice-mill, deceased was a<br/>
British subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have long observed that the<br/>
dike in front of the Protestant ceme-<br/>
tery has nearly all broken away leav-<br/>
ing a very untidy and shiftless look<br/>
to that otherwise well cared for and<br/>
neat place. We are witnesses that<br/>
the Protestant community of this city<br/>
have ever been prompt to respond<br/>
liberally to every call for their sympa-<br/>
thy and aid in fitting up and beauti-<br/>
fying the cemetery grounds, and we<br/>
doubt not that they will again evince<br/>
the same readiness and liberality if<br/>
duly invited to aid in making the re-<br/>
pairs which are now needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer "Chow Phya" arri-<br/>
ved here from Singapore, on the 26th<br/>
inst. She left Singapore, on the even-<br/>
ing of the 22nd inst., and had plea-<br/>
sant weather during the passage, arri-<br/>
ved at the Bar, on the 26th crossed<br/>
the Bar, at 4.30 P. M. anchored at<br/>
Paknam, at 6 P. M. and arrived at<br/>
Bangkok at 8 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next monthly concert for pray-<br/>
er will be held at the house of Rev.<br/>
Wm. Dean D. D. on Monday the 1st<br/>
proximo at 4 o'clock P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This meeting is denominated a con-<br/>
cert because all evangelical Christians<br/>
throughout the world have concerted<br/>
to meet in their several neighborhoods<br/>
on the first Monday of every month<br/>
for the purpose of praying to God for<br/>
the speedy convertion of the world to<br/>
Christ.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following offi cial notice appears<br/>
in the 'North German Gazette' of Au-<br/>
gust 8:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The royal family has not been spared<br/>
the sacrifices demanded by war. The<br/>
distressing intelligence has arrived that<br/>
Prince Anton von Hohenzollern suc-<br/>
cumbed the day before yesterday, at<br/>
Königinhof, to the four wounds he re-<br/>
ceived upon the 3rd July at the battle<br/>
near Königgrätz. By this melancholy<br/>
event the reigning family and the court<br/>
are placed in mourning.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_2_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
DAVIS INDICTED FOR TREASON.—-On<br/>
Thursday last, the Grand Jury of the<br/>
United States Circuit Court, in session at<br/>
Norfolk, Va., brought in a true bill against<br/>
Jefferson Davis for treason, and adjourned<br/>
until the first Thursday in June, to meet<br/>
in Richmond. It is stated that since the<br/>
declaration of martial law has been re-<br/>
voked, Chief-Justice Chase has consented<br/>
to preside at the trial, and that it will be<br/>
conducted by Attorney-General Speed,<br/>
who will be assisted by Wm. M. Evarts,<br/>
Esq., of this city. Mr. Davis will be<br/>
defended by Charles O’Connor, Esq., of<br/>
this city, and other counsel. He has ex-<br/>
pressed his satisfaction at the prospect of<br/>
a speedy trial of his case.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAUM KLAU.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is the title of sketches<br/>
unpublished and incomplete, from<br/>
which we propose to give extracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. I. The great family of<br/>
PRA POOTS YAWT FA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. II. The present king's<br/>
childhood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. III. His elder brother<br/>
takes the throne and governs with a<br/>
jealous sway.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. IV. CHOW FA YAI in the<br/>
priesthood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. V. His Coronation.<br/>
Chapter. VI. Treaties made with<br/>
foreign powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. VII. Missionary ladies<br/>
teach in the palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chapter. VIII. Liberal policy con-<br/>
nected with commerce.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Under this chapter we have the<br/>
following.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the coronation of the present<br/>
king prominent foreigners were invi-<br/>
ted to a public dinner, and the king<br/>
then intimated that he should adopt<br/>
the policy of enlightened nations.<br/>
Ship duties would be lessened so as<br/>
to encourage commerce. New canals<br/>
would be made. New roads opened<br/>
and the people would be left free to<br/>
seize on truth wherever found.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In many respects the king has fully<br/>
met the expectations raised at the<br/>
time of his coronation. The treaties<br/>
he has made with the western nations<br/>
have given an impulse to commerce<br/>
quite equal to the present resources<br/>
of the country. True, there are abun-<br/>
dant resources to be developed; but<br/>
this must be the work of time and of<br/>
improved production. Opportunities<br/>
to sell have been created, and when<br/>
the wants of the people are so multi-<br/>
plied as to become a strong impetus<br/>
to effort, the great valleys of these<br/>
beautiful rivers throughout their<br/>
length and breadth will rejoice in wav-<br/>
ing grain, the banks of the streams<br/>
abound in luxurious fruits, and the<br/>
highlands give pasterage and wood-<br/>
land that shall supply every demand<br/>
of a multiplying thriving community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New roads have been opened, new<br/>
canals made, others are being pro-<br/>
jected, and we see no reason for any<br/>
person or any nation to complain of<br/>
the king in these respects. He is in-<br/>
clined to listen to every reasonable<br/>
wish of all his friends, and to enter in-<br/>
to any scheme that shall add to the<br/>
physical perfection of his country.<br/>
His resources are limited, his wants<br/>
are multiplied, and none so well as<br/>
himself knows how difficult it is to<br/>
meet the wants of a community made<br/>
up of a great variety of character and<br/>
an equally great variety of opinions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king was too long in the priest-<br/>
hood to love war or warlike imple-<br/>
ments. He has never given himself<br/>
to these departments. Nor is he dis-<br/>
tinguished for manner in any way.<br/>
He plunges "in medias res" feeling<br/>
that he himself can express his own<br/>
thoughts and convey his own ideas<br/>
better than any one can for him,<br/>
though he may not quite so handsome-<br/>
ly execute. The king is a self reliant<br/>
man, and when conviction really takes<br/>
hold of him he is not slow to act. He<br/>
is out spoken and fearless in the ex-<br/>
pression of his own sentiments, and<br/>
the accomplishment of his own pur-<br/>
poses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king is an indefatigable man,<br/>
as full of business as the most business<br/>
like, as full of pleasure, seemingly, as<br/>
the most pleasure loving. We have<br/>
had weekly newspapers both English<br/>
and Siamese during the last two years<br/>
and the king has been at the head of<br/>
copious practical correspondents. His<br/>
articles are to the purpose because he<br/>
has spoken when he has had some-<br/>
thing to say, and could not hold his<br/>
peace. Few men writing from such a<br/>
standpoint would bear on the even<br/>
tenor of his way as he has done. He<br/>
is a Champion for the Buddhist reli-<br/>
gion now gasping in its death strug-<br/>
gles. He, an old man of more than<br/>
sixty, has within the last fifteen years<br/>
become the real father of more than<br/>
sixty children, and of course is the<br/>
champion of poligamy; yet with his<br/>
perceptions eclipsed by these, he sees<br/>
many truths strongly and clearly, and<br/>
is a fearless patron, where many who<br/>
have occupied positions, which ought<br/>
to command clearer vision are far less<br/>
clear sighted. How many times have<br/>
foreigners plead with him to muzzle<br/>
the press, yet he, conscious of his own<br/>
uprightness of purpose, and asking<br/>
for light, still forbears and patronises.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He knows how to reward merit and<br/>
remunerate favors. He has helped to<br/>
build both Protestant and Catholic and<br/>
Mahomedan places of worship. Not<br/>
because he would patronize these reli-<br/>
gions, but add to the advantages of<br/>
his country, helping all that shelter<br/>
themselves under the shadow of his<br/>
throne. He almost alone of all the<br/>
kingdom has given substantial proof<br/>
of gratitude for favors received. A<br/>
few years since he forwarded to Ame-<br/>
rica to Mrs. CASWELL, the widow of<br/>
the Rev. JESSE CASWELL his English<br/>
teacher, one thousand dollars, and a<br/>
gain to the same person still later five<br/>
hundred dollars. To Drs. BRADLEY<br/>
and CAMPBELL he has given liberal<br/>
presents as tokens of gratitude for med-<br/>
ical aid. He is characterized by gen-<br/>
erous subscriptions to aid benevolent<br/>
purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry for him that there are<br/>
of many inducements to keep him<br/>
from accepting the truths of christian-<br/>
ity. We hope before it is too late,<br/>
he will break away from them all<br/>
Certainly in his heart of hearts he can<br/>
have no great reverence for that reli-<br/>
gion, that wor-ships a man, who made<br/>
no professions of power to save, who<br/>
could only reply when called to help<br/>
in extremity " tam boon tam kam."<br/>
The king thinks too much, knows too<br/>
much of the invisible and unseen, not<br/>
to be able to comprehend a spiritual<br/>
existence, that pervades all space and<br/>
possesses all power—-mighty to save.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The formalities of Buddhism and<br/>
the claims of iron custom absorb<br/>
much of the king's precious time, and<br/>
consume greatly his moneyed resources.<br/>
As some compensation, they bring the<br/>
king much among his people, and<br/>
give the people many opportunities to<br/>
minister to his pleasure and so become<br/>
personally interested in their sover-<br/>
eign and king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He visits many places in his king-<br/>
dom, particularly, the Diamond City.<br/>
On these excursions, he takes the air of<br/>
a gentleman of many resources. He will<br/>
set out in his own steamer, the "Royal<br/>
Seat" (the first steamer built in the<br/>
country above play thing pretensions)<br/>
or some fine new made steamer—-tak-<br/>
ing many of his children with their<br/>
mothers and attendants, accompanied<br/>
by quite a fleet of steamers, occupied<br/>
by the prominent nobility, and be<br/>
away from the capital weeks with no<br/>
business but change, or meeting some<br/>
custom as the shaving of a top-knot. He<br/>
goes in all weathers and always safely,<br/>
seeming to have a charmed life. There<br/>
never has been a serious accident since<br/>
the introduction of steamers. Their<br/>
success has made the people venture-<br/>
some.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a pleasure occasionally, to leave<br/>
this vast city, with its noise and bus-<br/>
tle, and babel of tongues, and rusticate<br/>
for a time among rice fields, country<br/>
villages, and farm houses, and also to<br/>
try one's skill as a sportsman upon<br/>
flocks of birds. Ascending the Mei-<br/>
nam Chow Phya however, at this sea-<br/>
son of the year, when the water from<br/>
up the country is so strong down, as<br/>
to overcome all influence of the tide,<br/>
is a little like the Darkies road to Jor-<br/>
dan, a "hard road to trabel." On<br/>
the afternoon of Sept. 11th we turned<br/>
our back upon the city, and directed<br/>
our course as nearly North as circum-<br/>
stances allowed. But scarcely had we<br/>
passed Bangkok Noi, and the city,<br/>
and its palaces, and pagodas, were re-<br/>
ceding slowly in the distance, and the<br/>
sun was approaching so near the hor-<br/>
izon that every thing wore an air of<br/>
pleasantness when the rumble of dis-<br/>
tant thunder, and the appearance in<br/>
the west of a black cloud announe-<br/>
ed the approach of one of those dash-<br/>
ing rains, of which September in this<br/>
country is so prolific. We had barely<br/>
time to reach a raft of teak timber<br/>
moored some distance ahead, and pre-<br/>
pare. It rained, and rained without<br/>
intermission, and dashed in under the<br/>
attap covering which protected the<br/>
men, and some even penetrated into<br/>
our own rather comfortable quarters.<br/>
The cook tried to prepare dinner, but<br/>
the rain put out his fire, and he an-<br/>
nounced a failure, so we were obli-<br/>
ged to make the best of some cold<br/>
victuals, and retire to rest. The clear<br/>
and early morning carried us through<br/>
some Peguan villages above the city,<br/>
and which indeed may be considered<br/>
as part of its suburbs. Here most of<br/>
the rice pots, and water jars used in<br/>
the city are made, and the shops in<br/>
the vicinity of the kilns are full of<br/>
those wares.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pakret, a short canal, about three<br/>
quarters of a mile long, cuts off a long<br/>
bend in the river. Here is another<br/>
Peguan village, and some floating<br/>
houses are also moored at the mouth of<br/>
the canal, occupied chiefly by China-<br/>
men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Leaving Pakret we also leave for a<br/>
time the busy, noisy Chinaman, as be-<br/>
tween that and the old city, there is<br/>
but little for him to do, but wherever<br/>
there is water enough to moor a float-<br/>
ing house, and inhabitants sufficient<br/>
to justify him in starting a gambling<br/>
shop, there we find that same busy<br/>
John again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Still for some distance further on,<br/>
the inhabitants upon the banks are<br/>
chiefly Peguans, who are the descen-<br/>
dants either of captives brought here<br/>
during some of the wars with that<br/>
people, or of those who took refuge<br/>
here when their country was attacked<br/>
by some of the other surrounding na-<br/>
tions. They hold the Buddhist reli-<br/>
gion, and are to all intents, and pur-<br/>
pose Siamese, still they have their<br/>
own temples, where the male portion<br/>
of their children are taught to read the<br/>
Peguan language. The bricks used<br/>
for building in the city, are made by<br/>
them, and the sand used for the same<br/>
purpose is fished up by them from the<br/>
bottom of the river. At a certain<br/>
place the river widens out, leaving the<br/>
water in some places only one and a<br/>
half, or two fathoms deep. In these<br/>
places the sand brought down by the<br/>
current appears to accumulate. Here<br/>
they moor their boats, and putting a<br/>
pole down at the side of the boat, a<br/>
man with basket in hand descends the<br/>
pole, and returns in a few seconds<br/>
with a basket full of pretty sand, drip-<br/>
ping wet, which is received by a per-<br/>
son in the boat. Having taken time<br/>
to breathe he again descends. At<br/>
Bangsai, the Rahsang branch joins.<br/>
At this season of the year the river in<br/>
most places is overflowing its banks,<br/>
and where the banks are free from<br/>
jungle a magnificent view of the rice<br/>
fields is obtained, which promise an<br/>
abundant crop. The water, however,<br/>
is said not to be as high as it usually<br/>
is at this season of the year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The old city Ayuthia is situated at<br/>
the junction of several minor branches<br/>
of this great river. In approaching it<br/>
from any direction it presents but a<br/>
dismal appearance. It was destroyed<br/>
about one hundred years ago, by the<br/>
Burmese, but the old walls are still in<br/>
many places visible, and the ruins of<br/>
many of the temples and pagodas, al-<br/>
though built of no more durable ma-<br/>
terial than brick and mortar, are still<br/>
in a considerable state of preservation.<br/>
But they are grown over with weeds,<br/>
and tall grass so that it is next to im-<br/>
possible to approach them, and they<br/>
are apparently the habitation of bats,<br/>
reptiles &c. The devastation of the<br/>
Burmese must have been thorough.<br/>
Although holding the Buddhist reli-<br/>
gion, in common with the Siamese,<br/>
not a temple even appears to have es-<br/>
caped them for miles around. The<br/>
modern city consists chiefly of float-<br/>
ing houses in the creeks, and canals.<br/>
It would be difficult to tell the num-<br/>
ber of inhabitants, but might be gues-<br/>
sed to be about 25,000, many of<br/>
whom are Chinese. The principle<br/>
objects of interest are a large temple,<br/>
on the south side of the city, and said<br/>
to occupy the site of the Burmese<br/>
camp, during the siege, and is celebra-<br/>
ted for the number of its idols, which<br/>
are estimated by some, as high as ten<br/>
or fifteen thousand. The Chinese,<br/>
and Siamese unite at this temple.<br/>
About fifty priests teach daily the<br/>
Buddhist religion, and here also the<br/>
Chinaman burns his joss sticks, and<br/>
worships the spirits of his ancestors.<br/>
The other object of interest is a vast<br/>
stack of brick and mortar, some three<br/>
or four miles, north of the city, called<br/>
the Kow Tong, (Golden Mountains,)<br/>
and well deserves the name, as it must<br/>
have taken a vast amount of labor,<br/>
and expense to build it. It was built<br/>
before the destruction of the City,<br/>
and instead of sharing the general de-<br/>
vastation, is said to have been even<br/>
completed by the Burmese. It con-<br/>
tains a base of about seventy five<br/>
yards square, and terminates in a spire<br/>
at the height of about three hundred<br/>
feet. The ravages of time however<br/>
are beginning to tell upon it. It is<br/>
sinking down in many places, the top<br/>
of the spire is inclining considerably,<br/>
and grass is springing out in many<br/>
places over it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sprouts of the Po tree too, that des-<br/>
troyer of all walls, and mason work in<br/>
the east are also coming out all over it.<br/>
This artificial mountain is said to be,<br/>
once a year, the scene of a gala-day,<br/>
which is partly a festive, and partly a<br/>
religious occasion. On a certain day<br/>
of the eleventh month, all the inhabi-<br/>
tants of the city, and surrounding<br/>
country flock thither, clothed in their<br/>
best apparel. Fathers and mothers,<br/>
young men and maidens, and little<br/>
children, all meet together. Many a<br/>
marriage has had its origan their. Ac-<br/>
cording to Siamese custom, the young<br/>
folks do not enjoy the same freedom<br/>
of conversing together that they do in<br/>
European countries; but when a young<br/>
man sees a lady who pleases him, he<br/>
marks her, and when the proper time<br/>
comes, he begs her of her parents.<br/>
This festive occasion therefore gives<br/>
the young men an opportunity, of<br/>
seeing all the fair sex of the city and<br/>
community at once.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From an elevated position on this<br/>
mountain, one obtains a magnificent<br/>
view of the surrounding country, which<br/>
is one vast plain clothed at this sea-<br/>
son of the year in living green. Green<br/>
trees upon their banks, mark the win-<br/>
dings, and twistings of the different<br/>
creeks, and canals, whilst the vast<br/>
plain is covered with growing rice,<br/>
lifting its head above the overflowing<br/>
waters. His Majesty, has erected a<br/>
palace at the old city, which he occu-<br/>
pies during the short visits which he<br/>
makes to the ancient capital of his<br/>
kingdom. Few better situations for a<br/>
great inland city can be conceived of<br/>
than Ayuthia. It is surrounded by a<br/>
vast extent of the best rice growing<br/>
country, and the facilities for irriga-<br/>
tion, in case of necessity are ample, so<br/>
that an abundant crop would be al-<br/>
most always certain. In the hands of<br/>
a few enterprising Hollanders, with<br/>
their diking, ditching, and canaling<br/>
propensities, a Queen city might be<br/>
raised there, fed by the richest coun-<br/>
try, and sending millions of produce<br/>
annually to the capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Power of Conscience.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
H. W. BEECHER;
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not long ago a gentleman who was en-<br/>
gaged in the oil business had made some<br/>
twelve or fifteen thousand dollars, and<br/>
he concluded that he had made enough—-<br/>
extraordinary as it may seem!—-and that<br/>
he would wind up his affairs and come<br/>
home. I do not believe one of you would<br/>
have done it! Fifteen thousand dollars?<br/>
Why, that is just enough to bait the trap<br/>
of mammon! Well, he wound up his af-<br/>
fairs, and was on the point of leaving,<br/>
when he was met by a young man of his<br/>
acquaintance (I believe they both reside<br/>
in New York), who had invested six<br/>
thousand dollars, all he had, in an ex-<br/>
perimental well, and been boring and<br/>
boring until he had given out in dis-<br/>
couragement. And, coming to this man,<br/>
he said, “I shall lose six thousand dollars<br/>
if I am obliged to give up my interest in<br/>
that well;” and begged him to take it off<br/>
his hands. “I am selling out, and not<br/>
taking on,” says the man. But the young<br/>
man plead with him, and out of personal<br/>
kindness he said, “Very well, I will take<br/>
it.” In two days they struck a vein in<br/>
this well, and it was an immensely fruit-<br/>
ful well; and he sold his share for two<br/>
hundred thousand dollars. The young<br/>
man was present when the check was<br/>
drawn on New York for the amount, and<br/>
he felt like death, and mourned, and said,<br/>
“It is always my luck: I am always a<br/>
little too late.” And the man said, “You<br/>
may take ten thousand of it, if you<br/>
want.” The young man thought he was<br/>
jesting; but he assured him that he was<br/>
not, and said, “I will make it twenty<br/>
thousand, if it will do you any good.”<br/>
“Or,” said he, “I will make it fifty thou-<br/>
sand.” “Well,” said he, “take the whole<br/>
of it: I do not want it. Give me the six<br/>
thousand, and you may have the advan-<br/>
tage of the good luck.” And so he gave<br/>
the young man the two hundred thou-<br/>
sand. All of you that would have done<br/>
that may rise up!—-INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Boundary between Siam and
British Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the FRIEND OF INDIA,<br/>
Lieutenant Bagge of the Royal Engineers<br/>
who completed the demarcation of the<br/>
north east boundary between Tenasserim<br/>
and Siam during last dry season as far as<br/>
the Amya Pass, will proceed, to Bangkok<br/>
for the purpose of getting assistance there,<br/>
with which to recommence the work.<br/>
Lieut. Bagge requires elephants and<br/>
guides, which are more easily procured<br/>
from the Siamese than in any part of our<br/>
own territory, and will make an early<br/>
start in November, beginning at the Pak-<br/>
chan river our most Southern limit and<br/>
will work up northward to the pass.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government should appoint a col-<br/>
league to accompany Lieutenant Bagge,<br/>
so as to be prepared for every contingen-<br/>
cy whether in the case of sickness or accid-<br/>
ent. Two officers can help one another in<br/>
case of either being temporarily disabled,<br/>
and the whole season's work is then not<br/>
not entirely lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Thrilling Incident.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Returning from a visit to New Orleans,<br/>
we were fortansle enough to secure a pas-<br/>
sage in a steamboat with but few passen-<br/>
gers. Among the ladies, one especially<br/>
interested us. She was the	'widow of a<br/>
wealthy planter and was returning with<br/>
only one child to her father's home. Her<br/>
devotion to the child was very touching,<br/>
and the eyes of her old black nurse would<br/>
fill with tears as she besought her mistress<br/>
'not to love that boy too much, or the Lord<br/>
would take him away from her.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We passed through the canal at Louis-<br/>
ville, and stopped for a few minutes at the<br/>
wharf, when the nurse, wishing to see the<br/>
city, walked out on the guard at the back<br/>
of the boat, where, by a sudden effort, the<br/>
child sprang from her arms into the terri-<br/>
ble current that sweeps towards the falls,<br/>
and disappeared immediately. The con-<br/>
fusion which ensued attracted the atten-<br/>
tion of a gentleman who was in the front<br/>
part of the boat quietly reading. Rising<br/>
hastily he asked for something the child<br/>
had worn. The nurse handed him a tiny<br/>
apron she had torn off in her efforts to re-<br/>
tain the child in her arms. Turning to a<br/>
splendid Newfoundland dog that was ea-<br/>
gerly watching his countenance, he pointed<br/>
first to the apron, and then to the spot<br/>
where the child had gone under.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In an instant the noble dog leaped into<br/>
the rushing water, and he also soon disap-<br/>
peared. By this time the excitement was<br/>
intense, and some persons on shore suppos-<br/>
ing the dog was lost, as well as the child,<br/>
procured a boat and started off in search<br/>
of the body. Just at this moment the dog<br/>
was seen far away with something in his<br/>
mouth. Bravely he struggled with the<br/>
waves; but it was evident that his strength<br/>
was fast failing, and more than one breast<br/>
gave a sigh of relief as the boat reached<br/>
him, and it was announced that he had<br/>
saved the child, and it was still alive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They were brought to the shore—the dog<br/>
and the child. Giving a single glance to<br/>
satisfy herself that the child was really<br/>
living, the young mother rushed forward,<br/>
and sinking beside the dog, threw her arms<br/>
around his neck and burst into tears. Not<br/>
many could view the sight unmoved, and<br/>
as she caressed and kissed his shaggy head,<br/>
she looked up to its owner and said— 'Oh,<br/>
sir, I must have this dog! I am rich; take<br/>
all I have, everything, but give me my<br/>
child's preserver!' The gentleman smiled,<br/>
and patting his dog's head, said—-'I am<br/>
very glad he has been of service to you;<br/>
but nothing could induce me to part with<br/>
him.'—-Lo. Co. NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Statistics of the principle Towns of<br/>
England, Ireland and Scotland, com-<br/>
pared with the population of London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Liverpool</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">484,337</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manchester</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">353,855</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Salford</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">112,904</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Birmingham</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">335,798</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Leeds</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">228,187</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Sheffield</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">218,257</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Bristol</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">163,680</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Newcastle</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">129,277</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Hull</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">105,233</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Edinburgh</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">175,128</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Glasgow</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">432,265</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Dublin</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">318,437</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">__________</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Total</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3,055,858</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>London</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3,067,536</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">__________</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12.178</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The New Heart.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some people keep their magnifying-<br/>
glass ready, and the minute a religious<br/>
emotion puts out its head, they catch it<br/>
and kill it, to look at it through the mic-<br/>
roscope, and see if it is the right kind.<br/>
Do you know my friends, that you can-<br/>
not love and be examining your love at<br/>
the same time? Some people, instead<br/>
of getting evidence by runing in the way<br/>
of life, take a dark lantern, and get down<br/>
on their knees, and crawl on the bound-<br/>
ary up and down to make sure whether<br/>
they have crossed it. If you want to<br/>
make sure, run, and when you come in<br/>
sight of the celestial city, and hear the<br/>
songs of the angels, then you'll know you<br/>
are across. Some people stay so near<br/>
the boundary line all their lives that they<br/>
can hear the lions roar all the while.—<br/>
Beecher.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COASTING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks, and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LITHOGRAPHIC
PRESS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JUST received and for sale by the<br/>
undersigned, one 22 inch litho:<br/>
graphic press complete with four stones,<br/>
six rollers, two rules, and other etcetras,<br/>
including ink, varnish, and turnkey<br/>
sponge, price for the whole ($300)<br/>
three hundred dollars nett cash.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Singapore 22nd Sept. 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
ROBINSON & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Religion in Business.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let no calculation of advantage or pro-<br/>
fit, no keenness of competition, induce the<br/>
merchant, the manufacturer, or tradesman,<br/>
to neglect the indication of right and<br/>
wrong, furnished by the ready application<br/>
of "The royal law" by conscience. You<br/>
are not mere money getters, or money<br/>
worshippers. If gain is to be gotten, it<br/>
must come with God's blessing and consis-<br/>
tently with obligations and professions of<br/>
a disciple of Christ. For the religion of<br/>
Jesus Christ is not for holy days and holy<br/>
places only—a few times and seasons, and<br/>
duties, and relationships, and circumstan-<br/>
ces. A religion based, indeed, upon the<br/>
most stupendous facts of divine wisdom,<br/>
power, and love; a religion involving subli-<br/>
mest truths and propounding loftiest mo-<br/>
tives, but descending to and embracing<br/>
life, and ennobling and consecrating all<br/>
life's humblest duties, its most trivial oc-<br/>
currences and occupations. A religion<br/>
not to be donned and doffed at pleasured<br/>
not to be reserved, for out of the way and<br/>
exceptional cases, as too sublime, too sub-<br/>
tle, too transcendental for daily wear and<br/>
tear; but a religion to regulate our most<br/>
secular engagements, and among them the<br/>
commerce of the merchant prince and the<br/>
sales of the retail store keeper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The religion of Christ is a religion for<br/>
ledgers and counters, no less than for<br/>
churches and death-beds. And because<br/>
professors of Christ's religion forget this,<br/>
they are stumbling blocks to weak bre-<br/>
thren and to a sneering world. Church-<br/>
member-ship, household forms, will not<br/>
prove them Christ's. "A false balance is<br/>
an abomination to the Lord, and they that<br/>
deal truly are his delight." "Shall I count<br/>
them pure with the unjust balances, and<br/>
with the deceitful weights?"—PACIFIC
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Minister's Salary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A worthy miller—-so Dr. Chaplin tells<br/>
the story in Dr. Dunbar's memoir—-was<br/>
once pained by hearing that the minister<br/>
was going away for want of support, the<br/>
church having decided they could no long-<br/>
er raise his salary. He called a meeting<br/>
and addressed his brethren very modestly,<br/>
for he was one of the poorest among these<br/>
comfortable farmers. He asked if want of<br/>
money was the only reason for this change,<br/>
and if all were united in desiring the ser-<br/>
vices of the pastor could they still keep<br/>
him. There was but one voice in reply.<br/>
The pastor was useful and beloved; but<br/>
the flock was so poor!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well," replied the miller, "I have a<br/>
plan by which I can raise his salary with-<br/>
out asking one of you for one dollar, if you<br/>
will allow me to take my own way to do<br/>
it, I will assume the responsibility for one<br/>
year. Have I your consent?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of course they could not refuse this;<br/>
although they expressed surprise, knowing<br/>
the miller to be but a poor man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The year drew to a close. The minister<br/>
had been blessed in his labors, and no one<br/>
had been called on for money. When they<br/>
came together, the miller asked the pastor<br/>
if his wants had been supplied and his sal-<br/>
ary promptly met? He replied in the af-<br/>
firmative. When the brethren were asked<br/>
if they were any poorer than at the begin-<br/>
ning of the year, each one replied "No,"<br/>
and asked how they could be, when their<br/>
church privileges had been so mysterious-<br/>
ly paid for. He asked again, "Is any man<br/>
here any poorer for keeping the minister?"<br/>
And the reply was the same as before.<br/>
"Then," he said, brethren, I have only to<br/>
tell you that YOU have paid the salary the<br/>
same as you always did, only more of it<br/>
and with greater promptness. You re-<br/>
member you told me to take my own way<br/>
in this matter; and I have done so. As<br/>
each one of you brought his grist to the<br/>
mill, I took out as much grain as I thought<br/>
your proportion, and laid it away for the<br/>
salary. When harvest was over, I sold it,<br/>
and have paid the minister regularly from<br/>
the proceeds. You confess that you are<br/>
no poorer; so you never missed it, and<br/>
therefore made no sacrifice. Now I pro-<br/>
pose that we stop talking about poverty,<br/>
and about letting our minister go, and add<br/>
enough to his salary to make us feel that<br/>
we are doing something."—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Intelligence of Animals.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Borlase says he saw a lobster attack an<br/>
oyster, who persisted in closing his shell<br/>
as often as the lobster attempted to in-<br/>
trude within it. After many failures, the<br/>
lobster took a small stone and placed it<br/>
between the shells as soon as they were<br/>
separated, and then devoured the fish.<br/>
Mr. Gardner, in his "Curiosities of Na-<br/>
tural History," states that he once watch-<br/>
ed a crab enlarging its burrow on the<br/>
sand; and about every two minutes it<br/>
came up to the surface with a quantity<br/>
of sand in its left claw, and by a sudden<br/>
jerk threw it to the distance of about six<br/>
inches. Having a few shells in his poc-<br/>
ket, he endeavored to throw one of them<br/>
into the hole; three of them fell near the<br/>
hole, and the fourth rolled into it. Five<br/>
minutes afterwards the animal made its<br/>
appearance, bringing with it the shell,<br/>
which had gone down, and, carrying it<br/>
to the distance of a foot from its burrow,<br/>
there deposited it. Seeing the others ly-<br/>
ing near the mouth of the hole, it imme-<br/>
diately carried them, one by one, to the<br/>
place where the first had been deposited,<br/>
and then resumed its original labor.<br/>
Gilbert White tells us of an old hunting<br/>
mare which ran on the common, and<br/>
which being taken ill, came down into<br/>
the village, as it were, to implore the help<br/>
of man, and died the following night in<br/>
the streets. A writer in FRAZER relates<br/>
of a hen, which had hatched several<br/>
broods of ducklings, that from experience<br/>
she lost all the anxiety usually borne by<br/>
those foster mothers by the indomitable<br/>
perseverance with which the young pal-<br/>
mipedes take to the water as soon as they<br/>
are born, and quietly led to the brink of<br/>
the pond, calmly watching them as they<br/>
floated on the surface, or dusting herself<br/>
on the sunny bank to wait unconcernedly<br/>
their return. Duges saw a spider which<br/>
had seized a bee by the back, and effect-<br/>
ually prevented it from taking flight;<br/>
but the legs being at liberty, it dragged<br/>
the spider along, which presently sus-<br/>
pended it by a thread from its web, leav-<br/>
ing it dangle in the air till it was dead,<br/>
and then it was drawn up and devoured.<br/>
An individual living in the square at St.<br/>
Mare's, Venice, has been in the habit of<br/>
scattering grain every day at two o'clock,<br/>
previous to which hour the birds assem-<br/>
ble in one place on the cathedral; and as<br/>
the clock strikes, they take wing and<br/>
hover round his window in small circles,<br/>
till he appears and distributes a few<br/>
handfuls of food. This, at all events,<br/>
indicates the faculty of noting time, and<br/>
may be placed on a parallel with the<br/>
story of the dog who went to church re-<br/>
gularly every Sunday at the proper hour<br/>
to meet his master. Animals are prompt<br/>
at using their experience in reference to<br/>
things from which they have suffered<br/>
pain or annoyance. Grant mentions an<br/>
orang outang which, having had when ill<br/>
some medicine administered in an egg,<br/>
could never be induced to take one after-<br/>
wards. Le Vaillant's monkey was ex-<br/>
tremely fond of brandy, but would not<br/>
be prevailed on to touch it again after a<br/>
lighted match had been applied to some<br/>
it was drinking. A dog had been beaten<br/>
while some musk was held to its nose,<br/>
and ever after fled whenever it accident-<br/>
ally smelt the drug, and was so suscepti-<br/>
ble that it was used in some physiological<br/>
experiments to discover whether any<br/>
portion of musk had been received by<br/>
the body through the organs of digestion<br/>
—a severe test of the dog's sense of smell<br/>
and capability of profiting by experience.<br/>
Strend of Prague had a cat on which he<br/>
wished to make some experiments with<br/>
an air-pump; but as soon as the creature<br/>
felt the exhaustion of the air, it rapidly<br/>
placed its foot on the valve, and thus<br/>
stopped the action. A dog having great<br/>
antipathy to the sound of a violin, always<br/>
sought to get the bow and conceal it.<br/>
Plutarch tells of an artful mule, which,<br/>
when laden with salt, fell into a stream,<br/>
and finding its load thereby sensibly<br/>
lightened, adopted the expedient after-<br/>
wards, and whenever it crossed a stream<br/>
slipped souse into the water with its pan-<br/>
niers; and to cure it of the trick the pan-<br/>
niers were filled with sponge, under which,<br/>
when fully saturated, it could barely<br/>
stagger. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The intelligence is most remarkable<br/>
when experience seems to prompt a plan<br/>
of action, or where the animal devises a<br/>
connected scheme to effect some desirable<br/>
object; as in the case of a cow, which<br/>
having strayed into an open granary, con-<br/>
tinued its visits by drawing the bolt with<br/>
its horn. The Arctic wolves hunt to-<br/>
gether in companies, and if they meet an<br/>
animal which they have not the courage<br/>
to attack openly, they form into a semi-<br/>
circle or crescent, and rush down upon<br/>
it, till the creature, terrified by the num-<br/>
bers of its enemies, hurries over a preci-<br/>
pice and is dashed to pieces, when they<br/>
search out the body and enjoy the feast.<br/>
Halliday mentions a mason-bee which<br/>
had built its nest close to a window gen-<br/>
erally fastened with a shutter, but which,<br/>
when thrown back, lay so close to the<br/>
wall, that its nest was completely shut in.<br/>
To prevent this occurrence, it formed a<br/>
little lump of clay, which hindered the<br/>
shutter from fitting tight to the wall, and<br/>
left room for its own ingress and egress.<br/>
Jesse recounts the circumstances of some<br/>
rats destroying the bladder fastened over<br/>
the nose of an oil-bottle, and making free<br/>
with the oil by dipping their tails into it<br/>
and licking it off. Dr. Pelican saw some<br/>
rats engaged in the same manner round<br/>
the bunghole of a cask of wine, into<br/>
which, if the hole had been large enough,<br/>
they would doubtless have fallen from<br/>
intoxication. The same principle was<br/>
carried still further, and with an evident<br/>
knowledge of the law which prohibits the<br/>
occupancy of the same place by two<br/>
bodies at one and the same time, by the<br/>
dog which threw stones into the well, and<br/>
the fox which dropped them into the neck<br/>
of a pitcher, in order to get at the water.<br/>
Degrandpre put a monkey to the proof<br/>
by leaving on a table an open bottle of<br/>
aniseed brandy, from which the monkey<br/>
extracted with its fingers as much as it<br/>
could manage to reach, and then poured<br/>
sand into the bottle till the liquor ran<br/>
over. Cuvier tells us of an orang-outang<br/>
unlocking a door by trying a whole bunch<br/>
till it found the right key, and if the lock<br/>
was too high it fetched a stool and mount-<br/>
ed on it. Le Vaillant's monkey when<br/>
tired, used to jump on the backs of his<br/>
dogs for a ride; but one of them object-<br/>
ing to this mode of treatment, stood still<br/>
the moment the monkey had taken it<br/>
seat, and thus got rid of the nuisance.<br/>
This reminds us of the horses which are<br/>
run without riders in the Corso at Rome,<br/>
and which are harnessed with loaded<br/>
spurs, which goad them as they run; the<br/>
older horses having experienced that<br/>
their own speed causes the spurs to play,<br/>
have the sagacity to stop, leaving the<br/>
younger and less experienced beasts to<br/>
decide the race without them. These<br/>
instances, extracted from a work which<br/>
literally brims over with facts of a kind-<br/>
red nature, abundantly testify that those<br/>
creatures on which man has too often<br/>
looked with scorn, and on which he has<br/>
heaped indignity and multiplied suffering,<br/>
have mental faculties, emotions, and sym-<br/>
pathies, which give them a claim upon<br/>
our most tender regard, and render them<br/>
equally the subjects of profitable study<br/>
and the fit recipients of human kindness.<br/>
—-HIBBERD'S GARDNER'S MAGAZINE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAI RAWT would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he is prepared to<br/>
paint pictures of the peculiar fruits<br/>
flowers, and leaves of the country in a<br/>
style which he has been encouraged to<br/>
hope will be quite acceptable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His place of residence is on the Ca-<br/>
nal Padoong krasem opposite Wat Kok<br/>
near the ricefields on the east side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prices of the several pictures<br/>
are as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A branch with fruit and flowers is<br/>
1 Tical. But if the buyer takes sev-<br/>
eral pictures of the same kind the<br/>
price will be only ½ of a Tical
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the buyer wishes a compound pic-<br/>
ture of several branches, having several<br/>
kinds of fruit, the price will be 2 Tic-<br/>
als. And if of such pictures several<br/>
be taken the price will be 1½ Ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the purchaser must furnish the<br/>
paper for the pictures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the purchaser wishes to have the<br/>
interior of the fruit represented it shall<br/>
be done
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REPORT BOAT:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers...... $ 1.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passage to or from the Bar...... $ 5.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Special boats to or from the Bar, $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (L. F.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
