---
linkTitle: 'September 13rd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 13rd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 13rd'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 59
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, September 13th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 36.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Peace.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(SPECTATOR.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
God, then, governs, as well as reigns.<br/>
The two worst men in Europe, in the<br/>
political sense, frame a plot by which, af-<br/>
ter killing many thousands of human be-<br/>
ings and reducing millions to political<br/>
slavery, each is to obtain certain great<br/>
selfish advantages, the one for his family,<br/>
the other for his caste. The plot is suc-<br/>
cessful beyond their most sanguine an-<br/>
ticipations, and lo! two great nations<br/>
stand free from almost unendurable bonds,<br/>
while the plotters see their work accom-<br/>
plished and themselves not a whit nearer<br/>
to their end. If circumstantial evidence<br/>
in politics is ever to be trusted, this war<br/>
was arranged months ago by two men, the<br/>
Emperor Napoleon and Count von Bis-<br/>
mark, of whom one had crushed and<br/>
another was then crushing the liberties of<br/>
a nation. The one saw in a combined war<br/>
against an enemy who had given no pro-<br/>
vocation an opportunity of enlarging his<br/>
frontiers, and thereby seating his dynasty,<br/>
the other hoped to re-assert over Germany<br/>
the power of an effete and brutal aris-<br/>
tocratic caste. The Emperor, by feigned<br/>
indifference, courteous expressions to the<br/>
Austrian Ambassador, and courtly mes-<br/>
sages to the Austrian Emperor, first lulled<br/>
his victim into security, and then encour-<br/>
aged him to believe that he had only to<br/>
deal with his avowed enemies in the field.<br/>
The Minister first deprived his own coun-<br/>
try of freedom, then under the most ex-<br/>
travagant pretences induced it to believe<br/>
itself attacked, and then dragged its youth,<br/>
often by actual force, to a war which a<br/>
majority of them considered fratricidal.<br/>
Cynicism more complete than that dis-<br/>
played by Count von Bismark in the<br/>
Prussian Parliament was never displayed<br/>
on a political arena, nor universality more<br/>
gross than his speeches about the Austrian<br/>
plan of plunder, nor heartlessness more<br/>
utter than the last call to the fathers of<br/>
families to fill up the Landwehr. The<br/>
struggle began, and it seemed that justice,<br/>
as short-sighted human beings reckon<br/>
justice, had deserted the earth. The ag-<br/>
gressor was everywhere successful, the<br/>
cynicism had terminated useless talk, the<br/>
falsehoods had inspired the troops, the<br/>
cruelty had filled up the battalions to<br/>
repletion. As if in scorn of virtue, Pro-<br/>
vidence had given the oppressor a weapon<br/>
against which the virtues were powerless,<br/>
courage an empty boast, fidelity a snare,<br/>
patriotism a sentimental delusion. The<br/>
power of slaying without limit, a power as<br/>
of the evil genius in an Arabian tale, a<br/>
power as of the man whose finger pressed<br/>
on the magic globe raised earthquakes,<br/>
and wars, and Eros, had been given to<br/>
Count von Bismark, and it was unscrupu-<br/>
lously made use of. An ancient empire was<br/>
persons put to death, and a dozen ancient<br/>
societies overturned, with all the miseries<br/>
which accompany those violent operations,<br/>
and then—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Italy was united and free, North Ger-<br/>
many united and free, the Emperor of the<br/>
French was baffled, and Count von Bis-<br/>
mark stood in presence of a community<br/>
indefinitely stronger, more determined to<br/>
secure its liberty than that which he had<br/>
so vehemently defied. Those, we take it,<br/>
are the inevitable results of the great<br/>
cataclysm which the Prussian armies have<br/>
in ten days' campaigning brought about.<br/>
The first two propositions will seem to<br/>
most of our readers scarcely to need ex-<br/>
planation. The result of the battle of<br/>
Königgrätz has been to convince the Em-<br/>
peror of Austria that it was impossible to<br/>
resist the needle-gun, and he consequently<br/>
called in the Emperor Napoleon as the<br/>
natural arbiter in a European contest.<br/>
To enable him to act it was essential to<br/>
remove his private interest in the success<br/>
of one of the two combatants, and Venetia<br/>
was therefore, with a somewhat supercili-<br/>
ous contempt for Italy, ceded like Lom-<br/>
bardy into his hands. But he cannot keep<br/>
the province; he may ask a reward for<br/>
resigning it—-a subject on which we may<br/>
have something to say presently, but he<br/>
must, if only in obedience to his own<br/>
theory of nationalities, surrender it to<br/>
Italy. Instantly therefore, now, this next<br/>
week, Venetia becomes free. Two and a<br/>
half millions of people, who for sixty years<br/>
have been subjected to the most galling<br/>
slavery, who in that time have never lost<br/>
one jot of heart or hope, who have dared<br/>
all and endured all on the mere chance<br/>
that they might one day be once more<br/>
men, regain in an hour their freedom, and<br/>
commence amid their countrymen a free<br/>
and noble national life. It would be<br/>
worth all that Manin endured, all that is<br/>
killing Mazzini, to have stood for an hour<br/>
in Venice when that message reached the<br/>
Venetians, when but ten brief days after<br/>
the sickening defeat of Custozza the men<br/>
who followed Manin knew that their life's<br/>
aim was accomplished, that the Tedeschi<br/>
were about to retreat, that their beautiful<br/>
land was their own, that their sons were<br/>
no more liable to be seized to serve the<br/>
enemy in a distant wilderness, that three<br/>
fourths of their incomes were no longer to<br/>
be stolen to swell an oppressor's revenue,<br/>
that they were free to live and die with<br/>
their kinsmen as Italians, that they need<br/>
no longer—-THEY to whom music is as<br/>
speech—-shut their ears to delicious strains,<br/>
lest the foe should believe that their hate<br/>
could for one second be less deep. Never<br/>
perhaps in the history of mankind was the<br/>
sum of human misery so diminished in one<br/>
day by human act as in this cession of<br/>
Venetia. It is not only in Venice that<br/>
the relief will be felt, though there the<br/>
change is as that which falls upon the vic-<br/>
tim when his torture has given place to<br/>
sudden ease, but in all Italy. The danger<br/>
of dismemberment has ceased, and the<br/>
necessity for unbearable expenditure. She<br/>
is free and complete, for the first time in<br/>
a thousand years able to live, and move,<br/>
and be according to the powers, and the<br/>
instincts, and the wishes inherent in her<br/>
own life. If the war had done only this,<br/>
this one transaction which occupies five<br/>
lines of a telegraphic bulletin, the lives it<br/>
has cost, say as many as Ipswich or Rich-<br/>
mond and Kew contain, would have been<br/>
worthily sacrificed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But this is but the beginning. It is the<br/>
fate of Count von Bismark, part of that<br/>
irony of Providence which from the day<br/>
he accepted power has so visibly attended<br/>
him, that he cannot take a step towards<br/>
absolutism without crushing absolutisms<br/>
worse, because pettier, than his own. He<br/>
had not had his will four days in Germany,<br/>
before every despot in North Germany<br/>
save one had ceased to wield his despotic<br/>
power, and twenty-eight millions of men,<br/>
who for fifty years had sighed, and plotted,<br/>
and fought for unity, and gone sick with<br/>
hope deferred, were united under circum-<br/>
stances which forbid any forcible dismem-<br/>
berment. As we have explained elsewhere,<br/>
there exists no power save the King of<br/>
Prussia which can now divide North Ger-<br/>
many, and his interest is not in its division.<br/>
The nation is made, whether Napoleon<br/>
approve or the Czar be recalcitrant, wheth-<br/>
er the petty Kings become privileged<br/>
nobles, or die out like our own Stuarts,<br/>
whom most of them so closely resemble,<br/>
in unrespected exile. The "King" of<br/>
Hanover will point cannon on his citizens<br/>
no more, or the "King" of Saxony im-<br/>
prison them, or the Elector of Cassel take<br/>
their wives, or the Grand Duke of Mecklen-<br/>
burg order them the stick, or Nassau<br/>
demoralise them with his gaming tables,<br/>
or Oldenburg threaten them with Prussia,<br/>
or Waldeck seize them for an army with-<br/>
out a name, or a use, or a career. The<br/>
single despot has swept them away, and<br/>
German necks are released from the halter<br/>
that they may have free breath—-doubtless<br/>
to exalt Hohenzollerns, but still that halt-<br/>
er cannot be applied again. A nation of<br/>
twenty-eight millions of thoughtful and<br/>
energetic men, so learned that their know-<br/>
ledge is a proverb, yet so martial that they<br/>
at this moment give the law to Europe, so<br/>
democratic that English bourgeoisie<br/>
pronounce them vulgar, yet so reveren-<br/>
tial that English writers incline to call<br/>
them slavish, commence, because Count<br/>
von Bismark cannot bear freedom, a free<br/>
national life. We say free, for in his sense<br/>
it will be free. These new subjects are as<br/>
Liberal as Prussians, and they were not<br/>
bred up from teething time to reverence<br/>
Hohenzollerns, nor is it among them that<br/>
squireens are esteemed a separate and a<br/>
holy caste. If it was difficult to keep<br/>
down the love for constitutionalism among<br/>
Prussians, when their King was wild to<br/>
secure his army, and the Sovereign had a<br/>
Russian wife, what will it be when all that<br/>
is liberal in Hanover and Saxony, and the<br/>
Hesse, and the Elbe Duchies, and Nassau,<br/>
and the Free Cities, and Thuringia, is ad-<br/>
ded to the opposition, while all that is<br/>
conservative is disaffected, when liberals<br/>
are as anxious as the King that the army<br/>
should be kept up, and when the “influen-<br/>
ces” round that King are English instead<br/>
of Russian? The Germans have won their<br/>
unity in spite of thirty Kings, they will<br/>
win their freedom in spite of one King’s<br/>
Minister, though he has eaten the thirty<br/>
Kings up. The plotter will be defeated by<br/>
the magnitude of his plot and its complete<br/>
success.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So we believe will his ally. Napoleon<br/>
looked to a partial victory, to be followed<br/>
by complete exhaustion; but the victory<br/>
has been complete and there has been no<br/>
exhaustion at all. The forces of Prussia<br/>
are unbroken, the loss being merely one of<br/>
men, whom the single levy in the Elbe<br/>
Duchies will replace, and she is under no<br/>
necessity to yield an acre or a man except<br/>
at her own discretion. Consequently, if<br/>
we understand the motives that govern<br/>
Kings, she will not yield one acre more or<br/>
man more than it is convenient to surren-<br/>
der. What is convenient? Saarbuck?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Well, we are tired of hearing that “strat-<br/>
egical point” elevated to such preposterous<br/>
importance. Austria had all the strat-<br/>
egical points, and within ten days had also<br/>
the option of submission or dissolution.<br/>
The Palatinate? Well, the world will not<br/>
be greatly hurt or France greatly benefited<br/>
by the addition of a few Bavarians to an<br/>
empire of five-and thirty millions. Luxem-<br/>
burg? Luxemburg will not seat the Bon-<br/>
aparte dynasty, nor will ought that the<br/>
Emperor can squeeze from Italy great as<br/>
the loss to Italy may be. Though Venice<br/>
is worth Sardinia, it was the Rhine to<br/>
which the Emperor looked, the possession<br/>
of the Rhine which would, as De Toc-<br/>
querville said, have disarmed every French<br/>
enemy, and enabled him free of dynastic<br/>
opposition to “crown the edifice in safety.”<br/>
And the Rhine he will not have, for it is<br/>
not within even Count von Bismark’s<br/>
power to give it; and as to taking it, one<br/>
has breech-loaders to prepare before that.<br/>
There is Belgium, to be sure, but there is<br/>
also England, and Prussia cannot heartily<br/>
wish that Belgium should be French, and<br/>
Austria cannot love the friend who en-<br/>
franchised Italy, and in short the Emperor,<br/>
like Count von Bismark, has achieved<br/>
results which benefit all mankind, save<br/>
only those for whose benefit he intended<br/>
to strive. It is very ridiculous no doubt<br/>
to believe that God reigns; but with Italy<br/>
free, and Germany united, and the Junkers<br/>
weakened, and Napoleon wild with baffled<br/>
longing for prey, and all the work of ten<br/>
days and two conspirators, who meant any<br/>
other results than these, it is as at least<br/>
hard to believe that we are the sport of the<br/>
senseless Fate which it pleases English<br/>
materialists to call the “current of events.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 30TH JULY.-—Ratification of<br/>
Preliminaries of Peace between Austria<br/>
and Prussia exchanged. Austria agrees<br/>
to recognise Prussian arrangements as to<br/>
the future of Germany. Italy consents to<br/>
five weeks' armistice, subject to uncon-<br/>
ditional union of Venetia by plebiscitum.<br/>
Prussian Chambers convened. East<br/>
Friesland soliciting annexation to Prus-<br/>
sia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NEW YORK, 1ST AUGUST.—-Tennessee<br/>
has been admitted into the Union. Con-<br/>
gress has been adjourned. The Secretary<br/>
of the Interior has resigned. Factory<br/>
Cotton steady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 3D AUGUST, (MORNING) Four<br/>
weeks' armistice between Italy and Aus-<br/>
tria, Basis—Unconditional union of<br/>
Venetia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5TH AUGUST.—-The liquidators of the<br/>
Agra Bank have announced payment of<br/>
a first dividend 5. on the 17th Septem-<br/>
ber. Cholera is decreasing. Liverpool<br/>
cotton and Manchester markets held<br/>
firmly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MELBOURNE, 27TH JULY.—-Telegrams<br/>
from Sydney state that the Bank of<br/>
Queensland stopped. A run on the Bank<br/>
of Otago but was successfully met.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
European Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the Home News June 26.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An armistice has been settled between<br/>
Austria, Prussia, and Italy, and the pre-<br/>
liminaries of peace have been agreed<br/>
upon. Austria consenting to be excluded<br/>
from "the new German Confederation,<br/>
the north of Germany to be united un-<br/>
der Prussia, a union of South Germany<br/>
to be formed, and Venetia to be given<br/>
up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Previously to the settlement of the<br/>
armistice, the Prussian and Austrian<br/>
armies had collected in full force close<br/>
to Vienna ; Hoehat, Wiesbaden, and<br/>
Frankfort had been occupied by the<br/>
Prussians ; and an Austrian squadron<br/>
had attacked and discomfited the Italian<br/>
fleet in the Adriatic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera has appeared in several places<br/>
in England, and is spreading in London.<br/>
The people of Frankfort have solicited<br/>
the intervention of France and England<br/>
against the exorbitant exactions of the<br/>
Prussian authorities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the Home News, June 18.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The War-office has issued a notice<br/>
calling for tenders for the conversion of<br/>
Enfield rifles into breech-loaders. The<br/>
army is to be supplied with 150,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Russia is reported to be making mili-<br/>
tary preparations. All soldiers on fur-<br/>
lough have been called in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Princess Louis of Hesse has given<br/>
birth to a daughter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. J. S. Mill has become chairman of<br/>
the Jamaica committee, in place of Mr.<br/>
C. Buxton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hungary is said to be raising recruits<br/>
to aid Austria.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The War.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE ARMISTICE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For the moment the interest of the<br/>
war has departed from the field of battle,<br/>
and entered the field of diplomacy. On<br/>
the morning of the 21st July the Paris<br/>
`Moniteur' announced that "Austria<br/>
had accepted the proposal of Prussia to<br/>
abstain from any act of hostility during<br/>
the five days in which the court of Vien-<br/>
na will have to notify its acceptance on<br/>
the subject of the preliminaries of peace."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The preliminaries proposed by Prussia<br/>
and approved by France are stated to be<br/>
as follows:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria to recognise the dissolution of<br/>
the former German Bund and the orga-<br/>
nisation of a new Confederation from<br/>
which she would be excluded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The north of Germany to form a uni-<br/>
on under the military and diplomatic<br/>
direction of Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The optional formation of a union of<br/>
South Germany as an independent inter-<br/>
national body.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
National bonds between these two<br/>
Unions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The annexation of the Elbe Duchies<br/>
to Prussia, with the exception of the<br/>
Danish portion of Schleswig.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Part payment by Austria of the Prus-<br/>
sian war expenses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The maintenance of the integrity of<br/>
Austria, with the exception of Venetia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These conditions have been submitted<br/>
by France to Austria, who has already<br/>
agreed to the first point, excluding her<br/>
from the Germanic Confederation to be<br/>
re-organised by Prussia. Apart from the<br/>
demands submitted to Austria, Prussia<br/>
intends to annex territory containing a-<br/>
bout 3,000,000 of inhabitants. The<br/>
Vienna correspondent of the `Times'<br/>
states that the Duchy of Silesia is the<br/>
territory which Prussia demands from<br/>
Austria as a part of the indemnification<br/>
which she is to receive for the heavy los-<br/>
ses she has incurred in men and money<br/>
during the war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the `Moniteur' of July<br/>
24, the Italian government has consented<br/>
to the armistice. That journal states:—-<br/>
Austria has accepted the preliminaries<br/>
of peace already agreed to by Prussia.<br/>
The plenipotentiaries of those two Pow-<br/>
ers are at the Prussian headquarters for<br/>
the purpose of negotiating an armistice.<br/>
The Italian government has just agreed<br/>
to the suspension of hostilities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The `Patrie' of the evening of the<br/>
24th says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is stated that the terms of the ar-<br/>
mistice as regards Italy stipulate for the<br/>
occupation of Verona by the Italian<br/>
troops. It is not yet decided where the<br/>
conference for the treaty of peace will<br/>
take place, but a small neutral town in<br/>
Germany will probably be selected. It<br/>
is believed that M. Benedetti will re-<br/>
present France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The `Italie' of Florence, of July 23,<br/>
observes:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We can state on good authority that<br/>
Prussia has not called upon Italy to sign<br/>
an armistice. The Prussian Minister in<br/>
this country is only charged to negotiate<br/>
with Italy the bases of the proposed sus-<br/>
pension of hostilities. No armistice can<br/>
be concluded unless agreed to by both<br/>
the allied Powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The armistice of last Sunday July 22,<br/>
did not come apparently one day too<br/>
soon to save Austria from a final catas-<br/>
trophe. On that same day two Prussian<br/>
divisions, according to the telegrams<br/>
given in a previous column, defeated an<br/>
Austrian force of 35,000 men before<br/>
Presburg. The conquerors had advanced<br/>
to a distance of less than two miles from<br/>
the city, which could hardly have failed<br/>
to fall into their hands, when the an-<br/>
nouncement of the conclusion of a truce<br/>
compelled them to fall back on the line<br/>
assigned to them by the terms of the<br/>
agreement for a suspension of hostilities<br/>
at Stampfen. In the south the Medici<br/>
division of the Italian army, which, com-<br/>
ing up from Bassano and Belluno, had<br/>
gained the entrance of the Valsugana at<br/>
Primolano, forced its way through the<br/>
defiles of that valley as far as Borgo and<br/>
Levico, storming the Austrian positions<br/>
by splendid fighting, and invading the<br/>
Austrian Tyrol to within about 12 miles<br/>
of Trent, with heavy losses to the Aus-<br/>
trians in killed, wounded, and prisoners.<br/>
Yet one day more of such a contest, and<br/>
the Italians would have found themselves e<br/>
in full possession of the Southern Tyrol,<br/>
and the Prussians, masters of the passes<br/>
of the Danube at Presburg and Krems,<br/>
would have threatened Vienna on the<br/>
east and west, and on both sides of the<br/>
great river. The combatants are, how-<br/>
ever, now resting in their respective po-<br/>
sitions, and there are well-grounded<br/>
hopes that the truce may be prolonged<br/>
into an armistice, and this again ripen<br/>
into a definitive peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From this suspension of hostilities,<br/>
however, Bavaria, Wurtemberg, and the<br/>
other south-western German States are<br/>
excluded. The efforts of the Prime<br/>
Minister of the Court of Munich, M.<br/>
von der Pforiten, to arrest by negotia-<br/>
tion the tide of Prussian invasion, have<br/>
been unavailing; nor can the Swabian<br/>
and Franconian districts to any extent<br/>
rely for protection on the 120,000 or<br/>
130,000 Federal troops which were said<br/>
to be armed for the defence of the line of<br/>
the Main. With their main Austrian foe<br/>
for the moment off their hands, the Prus-<br/>
sians will be sure to sweep forward to<br/>
the south till the Bavarian cities of Bam-<br/>
berg and Wurtzburg, Nuremberg and<br/>
Augsburg, and even the capitals of Stutt-<br/>
gart and Munich open their gates to<br/>
them. Political success everywhere fol-<br/>
lows upon military conquest. Already<br/>
Nassau, only yesterday occupied by a<br/>
Prussian army, is to-day clamouring for<br/>
Prussian annexation, and symptoms of<br/>
strong Prussian sympathies are every-<br/>
where exhibited to those very people of<br/>
Wurtemberg and Baden the governments<br/>
of which are still in arms against the<br/>
Prussian invader.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
John Bright on Educaotion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John Bright lately delivered an address<br/>
before a Sunday-school conference in<br/>
Rochdale, in which he urged the im-<br/>
portance of universal education, citing<br/>
the example of New England in support<br/>
of his views:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mr. Ellice, the very eminent member<br/>
of the House of commons for Coventry,<br/>
traveled in America, as he had done two<br/>
or three times before, very near the close<br/>
of his life, some six or seven years ago.<br/>
He visited Canada and the United States;<br/>
and, in a conversation which I had with<br/>
him after his return, he said that in those<br/>
New England States there was the most<br/>
perfect government in the world, there<br/>
was the most equal condition, and most<br/>
universal comfort amongst the people;<br/>
and he said that the whole population,<br/>
he believed, were more instructed, more<br/>
moral, and more truly happy than any<br/>
other equal population had been in any<br/>
country or in any age of the world.<br/>
[Cheers.] The whole of this is to be<br/>
traced, not to the soil, not to the climate;<br/>
but it is to be traced, I believe, to the<br/>
extraordinary care which the population,<br/>
from the days of the Pilgrim Fathers<br/>
until now, have taken with every child,<br/>
boy and girl, that they should be thor-<br/>
oughly instructed, at least in the common<br/>
branches of learning. [Hear, hear.] The<br/>
census shows that speaking generally,<br/>
there is scarcely to be found one person,<br/>
one native American certainly, and you<br/>
could not find one out of many hundreds<br/>
in the New England States, who cannot<br/>
read and write. [Hear, hear.] Now the<br/>
influence of those states is enormous.<br/>
Though only small states, containing not<br/>
more than one-tenth of the whole pop-<br/>
ulation of the American Union, yet the<br/>
influence of their opinions is felt to the<br/>
remotest corners of that vast territory.<br/>
[Hear, hear.] In New England they<br/>
consider their plan as the only plan.<br/>
They have tried it for two hundred years.<br/>
Its success is beyond all contest—it is<br/>
absolutely complete. [Hear, hear.]<br/>
There is nothing like it that has been<br/>
equally successful in the world. And<br/>
what our Puritan ancestors have done<br/>
(I know they were our ancestors, as well<br/>
as theirs) in the States, if the people of<br/>
England had the sense to comprehend<br/>
their true interests, they might compel to<br/>
be done in the country in which we live.<br/>
[Loud cheers.]" N. Y. Independent.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE JAMAICA REBELLION.—-By the last<br/>
arrival From Europe we learn that Messrs.<br/>
Qurney and Maule, the Royal Commis-<br/>
sioners to Jamaica, had arrived in<br/>
England, but nothing official had trans-<br/>
pired as to the nature of the report they<br/>
would submit of their investigations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The TIMES, however, anticipates the general<br/>
verdict of the commissioners, viz., First,<br/>
that the proclamation of martial law was,<br/>
during the first few days, warranted by<br/>
paramount necessity; next, that the out-<br/>
rages were preceded by symptoms of a<br/>
rebellion and sanguinary spirit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the execution of Gordon will be condemned as<br/>
a reckless disregard of human rights, and<br/>
a decisive condemnation will be profloun-<br/>
ced on the inhumanity displayed by sever-<br/>
al military officers. Governor Eyre will<br/>
be censured for having yielded to the<br/>
panic of his advisers, after the necessity<br/>
for severe measures had passed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The TIMES says that according to the careful<br/>
estimate of the commissioners, 439 rebels<br/>
were shot during martial law : about 600<br/>
persons were flogged, and 1,000 houses of<br/>
the peasantry were burnt down.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
September 13th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Siamese Government.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would call the especial atten-<br/>
tion of our readers to the translation<br/>
of the government document publish-<br/>
ed in the present issue, because it<br/>
illustrates in a strange way and with<br/>
peculiar clearness the Siamese charac-<br/>
ter, but more especially the Siamese<br/>
government. It grieves us to think<br/>
that a man so high in power, as the wri-<br/>
ter of that paper manifestly is, should<br/>
be provoked to write so disparaging-<br/>
ly as therein indicated, of the services<br/>
we have endeavored most diligently<br/>
honestly, and faithfully to render the<br/>
government and the people of the<br/>
kingdom. The writer seems to make<br/>
no allowance for unavoidable mistakes<br/>
in verbal or written reports which<br/>
are furnished for our Siamese paper;<br/>
and because a few of the cases of evil<br/>
doing which we have published from<br/>
time to time, seem not to be well<br/>
substantiated, he assails us with the<br/>
sweeping condemnation of being chief-<br/>
ly engaged in publishing falsehoods and<br/>
of being "crazy in murmuring out<br/>
our continual complainings" The<br/>
truth is the writer himself is strangely<br/>
inconsistent with himself, for in a<br/>
multitude of instances he has sent us<br/>
his special thanks for the good we<br/>
had done in publishing evil doers At<br/>
one time he went so far as to send us<br/>
ocular demonstration by stolen goods<br/>
that had been taken from robbers<br/>
whom we had published, that our re-<br/>
port was true—that the govern-<br/>
ment was awake to its duty, and was<br/>
glad of the assistance we were render-<br/>
ing it by our semi-monthly. And we<br/>
have the best of testimony from all<br/>
quarters that our reports are very ge-<br/>
nerally but too true, and that the<br/>
country as well as the capital is be-<br/>
ing greatly benefitted by the many<br/>
eyes we have out inspecting the pub-<br/>
lic morals. We feel free to con-<br/>
fess that the native writers for our<br/>
paper sometimes make mistakes, and<br/>
perhaps sometimes designedly for the<br/>
purpose of wreaking vengeance upon<br/>
their enemies And we are feeling<br/>
more and more the necessity of hav-<br/>
ing our reports of evil well substantia-<br/>
ted before we allow them to appear<br/>
in our paper. We have to-day been<br/>
startled with the thought, that per-<br/>
haps a native article in one of our<br/>
late issues in justification of a certain<br/>
Cotton monopolist has falsely as-<br/>
sumed the name of the farmer for<br/>
the purpose of bringing upon him the<br/>
vengeance of the government. The<br/>
paper was handed in in our absence.<br/>
But seeing the name of a man of our<br/>
acquaintance in bold relief at the be-<br/>
ginning of the article, we concluded<br/>
that our friend intended to make a<br/>
true statement, and one with which he<br/>
would dare to face the government<br/>
and all his accusers. But to our sur-<br/>
prise he came to-day apparently in a<br/>
great hurry to enquire by what author-<br/>
ity we had published him as the au-<br/>
thors of that article. We could only<br/>
reply that we simply published the<br/>
paper as the writer wrote it and<br/>
showed him the original He denied<br/>
in the strongest terms all knowledge<br/>
of it until he had, an hour before,<br/>
seen the article in a paper sent to<br/>
the Prime Minister. We have a man<br/>
in our employ who says that the man<br/>
who brought the paper for publish-<br/>
ing is a servant of his. It is a very<br/>
difficult case to decide We of course<br/>
give him the privilege of disclaiming<br/>
it. But it will lead us to the greatest<br/>
carefulness in the future that no one<br/>
shall play such a trick upon us No<br/>
native communication shall hence-<br/>
forth be published in our Siamese pa-<br/>
per without better authentication<br/>
than the mere written name of its<br/>
ostensible author, because our Siam-<br/>
ese correspondents very generally em-<br/>
ploy others to write their names.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are well aware that it must be<br/>
very trying to the temper and patience<br/>
of the Siamese government to have so<br/>
many revelations made of its weak-<br/>
ness and inefficiency as our Siamese<br/>
paper is continually bringing out, just<br/>
as a wise paternal governor of a fami-<br/>
ly is prone to become angry when any<br/>
fault is found with the conduct of his<br/>
children. But as a wise father in such<br/>
cases would resolutely resist a fretful<br/>
and angry spirit, and determine to<br/>
make some good improvement of the<br/>
trial, so it seems to us that a wise gov-<br/>
ernment will firmly suppress all temp-<br/>
tations to angry feelings towards the<br/>
reporters of evil doing within its juris-<br/>
diction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
liction, and determine to make the<br/>
best possible improvement of the trial<br/>
for its future welfare. Most surely the<br/>
Siamese government is in fearful need<br/>
of a through reformation! And we<br/>
must frankly express our opinion<br/>
that unless such a reformation is quick-<br/>
ly effected, and the government be-<br/>
come strong in righteousness and equi-<br/>
ty, it will soon elapse from utter rot-<br/>
tenness. But we still entertain lively<br/>
hopes that such will not be its deplo-<br/>
rable end, and hence we labor accor-<br/>
ding to the best of our ability by our<br/>
paper thinking that we shall surely<br/>
in the end be found benefactors of the<br/>
government and the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears to us that the head<br/>
of the government is sometimes<br/>
greatly deceived by crafty politicians,<br/>
causing the sombre views he takes of<br/>
some of the articles we publish. That<br/>
one, for instance, referred to in the<br/>
government document touching the<br/>
man Chaam at Bangplusoi, may have<br/>
been greatly misrepresented to him,<br/>
and that man may be really far more<br/>
of a desperado than the trial of the<br/>
case appears to have found him to be.<br/>
Some powerful party may have step-<br/>
ped in and intercepted justice by<br/>
bribery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are fully persuaded that His<br/>
Majesty the King's mind much en-<br/>
lightened as it is, is sometimes greatly<br/>
befogged in regard to the exercise of<br/>
justice in his kingdom by a multitude<br/>
of crafty officials who delight in chi-<br/>
canery, are exceedingly shrewd in it,<br/>
and live by it. He now requires<br/>
even more than the wisdom of king<br/>
Solomon to guide him aright in the<br/>
midst of such courtiers and coun-<br/>
sellors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oh the custom and spirit of bri-<br/>
bery is the great curse of the land. It<br/>
is a cancer eating out the very vitals<br/>
of the body politic. It has rooted it-<br/>
self in every department and function<br/>
of the government. It is a terrible<br/>
malady: but we hope not utterly in-<br/>
curable.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A government document.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation from the Siamese Recorder
of the 9th inst.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An answer to an article in the<br/>
Siamese "Bangkok Recorder," con-<br/>
cerning a fellow named Châäm at<br/>
Bangplasoi, reported as going about<br/>
doing violence to Chinese, Siamese cul-<br/>
tivators of the rice fields and others.<br/>
The charges preferred against him and<br/>
published in the paper are many.<br/>
Seeing this printed report it pleased<br/>
the King to dispatch one of his royal<br/>
servants to Bangplasoi to examine in-<br/>
to the affair, in conjunction with the<br/>
governor of that province. Search was<br/>
made in vain for the man Châäm.<br/>
And failing in this, his mother and a<br/>
younger sister were seized and kept in<br/>
custody, as pledges or security for the<br/>
delivery of Chââm for trial. There<br/>
was another party, who, being influen-<br/>
ced by a reward, caught the fellow<br/>
and handed him over to the court.<br/>
But there was no person found willing<br/>
to stand as witness against him except<br/>
one woman, who testified that he had<br/>
been guilty of rape in a single instance,<br/>
and that was all. Besides that testimony<br/>
there was no other witness against<br/>
him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now shall such a case as this be<br/>
condemned to imprisonment, or be<br/>
killed at once, according to the crimes<br/>
which the "Bangkok Recorder" has<br/>
published against him? Let it be<br/>
published in the "Recorder" giving<br/>
it extensive circulation, calling upon<br/>
all persons who have been in any way<br/>
injured by the violence of the fellow<br/>
Châäm, to produce their personal<br/>
evidence against him, so that the case<br/>
may be still further investigated. If<br/>
there be none to witness against him,<br/>
openly and boldly substantiating their<br/>
charges, but write only false charges,<br/>
hurling them secretly behind his back<br/>
in this way, the publishers of the<br/>
paper will go on murmuring in their<br/>
craziness continually.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is another matter published<br/>
in the newspaper, which is a counsel<br/>
to government to have a law made by<br/>
which women and men shall be oblig-<br/>
ed to sweep and wash the houses<br/>
which they occupy, keeping them<br/>
clean and pure from all filthiness.<br/>
Now this we will allow is good advice.<br/>
But in regard to what follows viz:—<br/>
that if the occupants of houses will<br/>
not follow such a law, let them be<br/>
fined a certain sum of money for<br/>
disobedience of the law, and let the<br/>
money obtained by such fines be put<br/>
into the royal treasury—-how shall<br/>
such a law be carried out.? Shall<br/>
the King himself go all about the city<br/>
searching for treason! Or all the<br/>
men who compose the Senabardee<br/>
(royal counsellors) do it? If only<br/>
special overseers be appointed to do it,<br/>
it would certainly began a great amount<br/>
of quarrelling between them and the<br/>
citizens. One would say that an<br/>
overseer had cast filth and corruption<br/>
about my dwelling for the purpose of<br/>
getting some charges against me and<br/>
then came and seized me, and con-<br/>
sequently I resisted him. Now when<br/>
disputes like this arise, who shall try<br/>
them? And should a report be made of<br/>
such quarrels to the editor of the news-<br/>
papers, he would publish it as report-<br/>
ed. Would not that create great<br/>
confusion? Whatever shall be done<br/>
in this matter let the subject be first<br/>
considered well throughout all its bear-<br/>
ings. It is not at all suitable that<br/>
such a matter be treated in an easy<br/>
careless manner.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The king of Cheangmai and
Prot. Missionaries.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As in the providence of Him who<br/>
is "over all God, blessed forever"<br/>
the city and Province of Cheangmai<br/>
are looming up before the public with<br/>
more than usual rapidity and interest,<br/>
we propose now to give an account<br/>
of an audience which a number of<br/>
Am. Protestant missionaries of Bang-<br/>
kok had with the chief ruler of that<br/>
State a few days since. We begin<br/>
with the purpose of going thorough-<br/>
ly into the description even at the<br/>
hazard of being pronounced prolix,<br/>
because we have in mind many read-<br/>
ers abroad whom we know to be<br/>
pleased with minute descriptions of<br/>
things in Siam, as they get a much<br/>
clearer idea of them by such mi-<br/>
nutes than they otherwise could do,<br/>
and their great desire is accurate in-<br/>
formation about this, to them as yet, a<br/>
strange land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The audience was sought for the<br/>
purpose of obtaining permission from<br/>
the Prince for, Rev. Messrs. McGil-<br/>
vary and Wilson with their families<br/>
to reside at Cheangmai and prosecute<br/>
their missionary work there with the<br/>
same freedom that they have done<br/>
here and at Petchaburee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These brethren have had their<br/>
hearts much engaged in Cheangmai as<br/>
a field for missionary labor for several<br/>
years, but more particularly so ever<br/>
since they visited it in January 1864.<br/>
And hearing, of the arrival of the<br/>
king of Cheangmai on his triennial<br/>
visit to His Majesty the king of Siam,<br/>
they arranged to have Mr. Wilson left<br/>
in charge, and Mr. McGilvary hasten<br/>
over from Petchaburee to Bangkok<br/>
to have an interview with the Prince<br/>
on the subject of removing their fami-<br/>
lies to his capital and making a per-<br/>
manent abode there. Mr. McG. ar-<br/>
rived here on the 28th ult. His first<br/>
interview with the king of Cheangmai<br/>
was on the 29th, and had his hopes<br/>
much encouraged by it. The Prince<br/>
expressed a good deal of pleasure in<br/>
the idea of having the brethren be-<br/>
come residents in his capital, assured<br/>
him that there would be no difficulty<br/>
in obtaining comfortable dwellings for<br/>
the two families at once, until they<br/>
should have time to erect buildings of<br/>
their own, that good teak wood<br/>
houses could be built much more<br/>
cheaply there than here, and that the<br/>
timber would cost them only the<br/>
trouble of hauling the logs from the<br/>
forest down to the place of their abode<br/>
and sawing them. But, said he, will<br/>
His Majesty the king of Siam give<br/>
you permission to settle there? The<br/>
answer was in substance, that in keep-<br/>
ing with His Siamese Majesty's well<br/>
known enlarged and liberal views, he<br/>
probably would. The reply was mani-<br/>
festly quite gratifying to the Prince,<br/>
and when Mr. McG. pointed out to<br/>
him the course he would take for ob-<br/>
taining a written permission from the<br/>
Siamese government, it met with his<br/>
full approbation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About the beginning of the present<br/>
month J. M. Hood Esq. U. S. Consul<br/>
at the request of the Presbyterian<br/>
mission in this city, addressed a letter<br/>
to His Majesty the king through His<br/>
E. Chow P'hya P'raklang, Minister for<br/>
Foreign affairs, requesting permission<br/>
for Rev. Messrs. McGilvary and Wil-<br/>
son together with their families to re-<br/>
move to Cheangmai with the view to<br/>
abide there and prosecute their mis-<br/>
sionary work. It was not until about<br/>
the 7th inst. that an answer was re-<br/>
turned through the P'raklang, the<br/>
substance of which was, that His Ma-<br/>
jesty the king had no objection to<br/>
granting the request, but that it would<br/>
be suitable and proper to submit the<br/>
question to the Prince of Cheangmai,<br/>
and abide by his decision, as he is<br/>
the ruler of that country, looking only<br/>
to the King of Siam as his Sazarain.<br/>
Consequently H. E. the P'raklang<br/>
appointed Saturday the 11th inst., at<br/>
10 o'clock A. M. for the missionaries<br/>
to meet at the residence of H. E.<br/>
Chow Phya P'oo't'hrap'ie, Prime<br/>
Minister for Northern Siam, and have<br/>
there a formal audience with the king<br/>
of Cheangmai, and confer together on<br/>
the subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Accordingly on the day appointed,<br/>
four of the missionaries of the Presbr.<br/>
Mission, accompanied by J. M. Hood<br/>
Esq. U. S. Consul, and a grand-father<br/>
missionary of another board, went to<br/>
the residence of the Prime Minister<br/>
as appointed. Having the Am. Con-<br/>
sul with them they were sure not to<br/>
be too late. They were conducted in-<br/>
to a plain yet neat audience hall, and<br/>
seated in European chairs around a<br/>
Japanese centre table. A grass carpet<br/>
without seam, of Siamese manufacture<br/>
very neatly covered the floor. Sundry<br/>
pictures, some European but mostly<br/>
Japanese and Chinese adorned the<br/>
walls. At the right hand end of the<br/>
hall was an immense arm chair, highly<br/>
gilded, elevated on legs four feet long<br/>
to serve the purposes of a Budd-<br/>
hist pulpit in which a Priest of<br/>
this persuasion occasionally sits on a<br/>
series of days for a kind of protredted<br/>
preaching services. Hence the hall is<br/>
as much a private chapel for H. Ex-<br/>
cellency's spiritual concerns as a court<br/>
room for his government affairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having been seated a few minutes,<br/>
H. Excellency made his appearance,<br/>
coming in as it were from behind the<br/>
pulpit, with a common country cigar<br/>
in his mouth and, as Europeans would<br/>
say, entirely in his dishabils, having<br/>
nothing about his person but a plain<br/>
calico panoong covering his hips and<br/>
thighs. This could not be regar-led<br/>
as being an insult, because it is one of<br/>
the many strange customs of Old<br/>
Siam and officials of Christian nations<br/>
as well as missionaries have learned to<br/>
bear it patiently. This Minis-ter seems<br/>
to stand in a state somewhere midway<br/>
between young Siam and old Siam,<br/>
belonging decidedly neither to the<br/>
one nor the other, and hence can ap-<br/>
pear at such a meeting in his old bar-<br/>
barous semi-nudity without a blush<br/>
of shame. Such could not the Prime<br/>
minister of Southen Siam do, for he<br/>
is too European in his habits and<br/>
tastes, and too decidedly a leader of<br/>
Young Siam to practise such barba-<br/>
rity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having shaken hands smilingly<br/>
with each of the party H. E. in a re-<br/>
markably sonorous voice enquired<br/>
which of them wished to remove to<br/>
Cheangmai, and for what purpose.<br/>
The answer being given he said it<br/>
would be necessary to learn the mind<br/>
of the king of Cheangmai, as His<br/>
Majesty the king of Siam had left the<br/>
question for him to decide. Is he<br/>
not expected to meet us here! in-<br/>
quired one. He has not yet been<br/>
notified of the meeting, but a messen-<br/>
ger shall be sent immediately to him<br/>
requesting an audience, was the reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The party was much surprised at such<br/>
a revelation, as the letter from H. E.<br/>
the P'raklang stated expressly that<br/>
the Prince would be in readiness to<br/>
meet them precisely at that hour, and<br/>
that if such an arrangement were not<br/>
made it might be difficult to obtain<br/>
an audience with him as the Prince<br/>
was much of the time absent. The<br/>
Minister immediately called to him a<br/>
stately servant in full dress and gave<br/>
him a verbal message to the Prince<br/>
requesting at the same time that one<br/>
of the gentlemen wishing to go to<br/>
Cheangmai would accompany him.<br/>
The Consul's boat, dignified with the<br/>
Am. stars and stripes bore the mes-<br/>
senger. The writer was requested<br/>
to accompany the messenger, think-<br/>
ing, perhaps, that his age and old ac-<br/>
quaintanceship with the Prince would<br/>
impart more power of accomplishment<br/>
to the object. In less than ten min-<br/>
utes we were at the floating house in<br/>
which the Prince had taken up his<br/>
temporary lodgings with all his train<br/>
of state barges about it. But he was<br/>
not there, having gone an hour<br/>
or more before, to make a call on H.<br/>
Excellency Chow P'hya Kalahome<br/>
less than a mile distant. The mes-<br/>
senger feeling sure that it was his duty<br/>
to follow on until he found him, went<br/>
in the boat under American colours<br/>
for him. The Prince, receiving the<br/>
message, came immediately away<br/>
from the Prime Minister's into his<br/>
own boat, and proceeded on his way<br/>
back to his floating house. But see-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
an extraordinary theatrical per-<br/>
formance in front of temple Kanlaya<br/>
he thought he would just step up for<br/>
a moment and take some notes of the<br/>
play. He was so much interested in<br/>
it that he quite forgot the object for<br/>
which he was returning. Having<br/>
waited some twenty minutes or more<br/>
at the floating house, and seeing no<br/>
prospect of his coming, we requested<br/>
Mr. Cox the Prince's English secreta-<br/>
ry to go back and remind him that<br/>
we were anxiously waiting for him.<br/>
He did so, which broke the charm<br/>
that had bound the Prince, and<br/>
brought him in a few minutes to his<br/>
abode in front of temple Aroon. He<br/>
invited us up to the chief sala of the<br/>
temple instead of the floating house<br/>
or his royal barge; as in the former<br/>
his queen was lying yet in a very<br/>
week state, slowly recovering from<br/>
extreme prostration by dysentery, and<br/>
as in the latter there was too little<br/>
room to seat us all comfortably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He had clean grass mats spread for<br/>
us to sit upon, and a large rush arm-<br/>
chair for the Consul to occupy. But<br/>
the latter having waited full an hour<br/>
beyond the time appointed by govern-<br/>
ment, and judging it best to be in<br/>
keeping with all his previous determi-<br/>
nations to show himself a punctual<br/>
man, and more especially to show the<br/>
Siamese government that he means<br/>
ever to insist upon punctuality in all<br/>
his dealings with it, had left a few<br/>
minutes before, and was beyond call.<br/>
The Prince seemed quite disappointed<br/>
by it. But he was determined to<br/>
make the best of it, and accordingly<br/>
took the chair himself. He first in-<br/>
quired for what purpose we had come<br/>
before him. The messenger of the<br/>
H. E. Chow Phya' P'oot'arap'ie then,<br/>
bowing before him briefly stated the<br/>
object of the meeting. An officer of<br/>
H. E. the P'rakklung was present to<br/>
hear all that should be said, so that a full<br/>
report of the meeting might, though<br/>
the minister of foreign affairs, be made<br/>
to His Majesty the king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On learning the object of the meet-<br/>
ing, and that His Majesty the king of<br/>
Siam had left the decision of the<br/>
question to himself, he said distinctly<br/>
that he had no objection to the two<br/>
mission families going to reside at<br/>
Cheangmai and there prosecute their<br/>
missionary work—that he would ever<br/>
be glad to have them do so—and<br/>
that H. E. the Prime Minister of<br/>
Northern Siam was at liberty, so far<br/>
as he was concerned, to give the mis-<br/>
sionaries such a passport to Cheang-<br/>
mai as they requested and whenever<br/>
they might desire it. He added that<br/>
as all that country belongs to the king<br/>
of Siam it was not his prerogative to<br/>
sell any part or parcel of the land to<br/>
Europeans or Americans; but that he<br/>
would be happy to give the mission-<br/>
aries the use of ground or the rental<br/>
of what they might need in building<br/>
them, dwellings and other houses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was quite satisfactory to all con-<br/>
cerned; and all the talking about the<br/>
question was done even in less time<br/>
than we have taken to write out the<br/>
few sentences we have concerning<br/>
what was said and done at the au-<br/>
dience. A written passport was not pre-<br/>
pared at the time because it was yet<br/>
3 or 4 months before the time it<br/>
would be needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince desired to know how he<br/>
might become personally acquainted<br/>
with the Am. Consul. We promised<br/>
to use our influence to secure it be-<br/>
fore he should depart homeward. In<br/>
a little pleasant festing he replied, let<br/>
the day and the hour be appointed,<br/>
and I will be punctual to it: but if the<br/>
Consul comes out of that time, tell<br/>
him that I shall have gone somewhere<br/>
else.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs Campbell wife of Doctor James<br/>
Campbell R. N. and Mrs Lessler wife<br/>
of P. Lessler Esqr. Prussian consul,<br/>
together with Miss Elliot her sister<br/>
left this P. M. for the Sanitarium at<br/>
Anghin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The family of Captain John Bush<br/>
Harbor Master and Master Attendant<br/>
returned a few days since, bringing<br/>
ocular demonstrations as well as ver-<br/>
bal that the Sanitarium is indeed what<br/>
its name indicates, and is a delightful<br/>
place for enjoying a change from a<br/>
city life in this Metropolis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The building will now accom-<br/>
odate well only a small number. As the<br/>
Sanitarium is likely to become a place<br/>
of much resort for Europeans, not only<br/>
invalids but parties seeking recreation<br/>
and invigoration, there is need of a<br/>
other dwelling equally spacious with<br/>
the one now found very pleasant only for<br/>
two families; and we would suggest<br/>
that inasmuch as the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment has made such a praise worthy<br/>
advance in this matter that the Euro-<br/>
peans and American residents of Bang-<br/>
kok make donations for the purpose<br/>
of having the accomodations there<br/>
double enlarged and with as little de-<br/>
lay as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer “Chow Phya” arrived<br/>
here on Saturday the 8th inst. at 6¼ P.<br/>
M. having made the passage in 3 days<br/>
and 18 hours. She left Singapore on<br/>
the evening of the 4th inst. and arriv-<br/>
ed at the Bar at noon on the 8th inst.<br/>
crossed the bar at 2. 30 P. M. arrived<br/>
at Bangkok at 6. 30 P. M. sent the<br/>
mails ashore and anchored for the<br/>
night off the Borneo Company’s pre-<br/>
mises.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per “Chow Phya!”<br/>
T. Probes Esq. Rev. R. Perrault F.<br/>
Miss. Tan Kim Chin Esq. Siamese<br/>
Consul at Singapore and suit. The<br/>
King of Quedah and suit, and 30<br/>
deck passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that there at the<br/>
present time no less than 37 Shan or<br/>
Laos Princes, residing in the various<br/>
Laos States under the jurisdiction of<br/>
the king of Burmah, who are properly<br/>
denominated Chow Pas. Those Shan<br/>
States nearest the territory of the<br/>
King of Cheangmai are Cheangtoong,<br/>
Mongmai, Meipoo, and Meipan.<br/>
We are happy to learn that Rev. M.<br/>
H. Bixby, one of the Baptist mission-<br/>
aries for Burmah has already establish-<br/>
ed several very encouraging missions in<br/>
one or more of those Provinces, and<br/>
has recently obtained permission from<br/>
the Siamese government to travel as<br/>
a missionary itinerant wherever he<br/>
wishes among the Laos who are tri-<br/>
butary to Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that TAN KIM CHENG<br/>
Esqr. Consul for Siam at Singapore<br/>
who arrived here per steamer Chow<br/>
Phya on the 8th inst. has been ap-<br/>
pointed by the Telegraph Co. at Sing-<br/>
apore and sanctioned by the Siamese<br/>
government to go and complete the<br/>
necessary arrangements among the<br/>
Malay States tributary to Siam, for<br/>
erecting the Moulmein and Singapore<br/>
Telegraph line, and that he will soon<br/>
take his departure on that mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to learn that His Ma-<br/>
jesty the king has responded favora-<br/>
bly to the request sent to him from<br/>
Paris to patronise the Great French<br/>
Exhibition which is to commence its<br/>
arrangements about the beginning of<br/>
next January,—that certain Siamese<br/>
nobleman have already been nominated<br/>
by the King to represent Siam at that<br/>
time in Paris, and that a goodly va-<br/>
riety of Siamese productions and manu-<br/>
factures have been collected for exhi-<br/>
bition on that great occasion. We<br/>
are informed also that Capt. D. Win-<br/>
sor. Secretary to His Excellency<br/>
Chow Phya P’raklang, will be the In-<br/>
terpreter to the representative corps.<br/>
They are to leave by the next Chow<br/>
Phya or the one following.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Tug Steamer Fairy,<br/>
made a vigorous effort a few days since<br/>
to tow up to Rahaang a small junk<br/>
loaded with salt ; but was obliged to<br/>
give it up as a bad job before she<br/>
reached the old city on account of the<br/>
strong current that now rushes con-<br/>
stantly down the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Robbery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that the teakwood custom<br/>
office near Cheinat has recently been<br/>
robbed of a large amount, of govern-<br/>
ment money together with all the<br/>
moveable property on the place. Re-<br/>
port says that no one was killed in<br/>
the robbery but that the keeper of the<br/>
office and his wife were bound by the<br/>
robbers, who had ALL [?] the [?]ployers on<br/>
the place, had fled. Chow Phya P'so-<br/>
t'se-P'ie, we understand, is in charge<br/>
of the timber farm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have one event of a local charac-<br/>
ter to record, which is to, us of peculiar<br/>
interest. It is the fact that both His<br/>
Majesty the king of Siam and the king<br/>
of Cheangmai have given their verbal<br/>
permission to Rev. Messrs. Ma Gilvary<br/>
and Wilson of the Presb. Mission in<br/>
this city, to remove their families to<br/>
Cheangmai, and settle there. It is un-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
derstood that they are to enjoy all the<br/>
freedom as Missionaries which they<br/>
have hitherto done in Bangkok and<br/>
Petchaburee with the single exception<br/>
of the right to purchase land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEWS OF THE REBELLION IN Bur-<br/>
mah is, we are informed, making the<br/>
king of Cheangmai quite anxious lest<br/>
the rebels shall invade his territory in<br/>
his absence, and produce great confu-<br/>
sion in his government. Many of his<br/>
most reliable princes and officials are<br/>
here with him, and the security of his<br/>
kingdom is hence quite weakened. He<br/>
is therefore very anxious to hasten<br/>
homeward. It must be a long jour-<br/>
ney for him even with the greatest<br/>
rapidity that can be given to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is just now, as we learn, an<br/>
interesting discussion going on in the<br/>
supreme court of Siam concerning a<br/>
certain Laos or Shan Prince who fled<br/>
a few years since from Mongmai a La-<br/>
os province belonging to Burma, be-<br/>
ing attended by 5000 followers, and<br/>
took refuge in one of the towns under<br/>
the jurisdiction of the king of Cheang-<br/>
mai. His name is CROWFA KOLAN and<br/>
is now living 15 days travel north of<br/>
Cheangmai. His son K'OON LOOGANG,<br/>
accompanied the king of Cheangmai<br/>
down the river to pay His respects to<br/>
His Majesty the king of Siam and is<br/>
now here. It seems that the king of<br/>
Burma has been employing a variety of<br/>
means all of a friendly and suasive<br/>
character to induce the king of Cheang-<br/>
mai to deliver up CROWFA KOLAN to the<br/>
Burman government, but has not suc-<br/>
ceeded. His constant reply to the king<br/>
of Burma, it is said, has been that the<br/>
question must be submitted to His<br/>
Majesty the king of Siam his Lord pa-<br/>
ramount and Protector. And conse-<br/>
quently the refugee Prince has sent his<br/>
son to the court of the Prabats[?] seeking<br/>
for protection from the Burman king.<br/>
We hope and trust that His Majesty the<br/>
king will be made well acquainted with<br/>
the good usages of European nations<br/>
in all such cases of political refugees,<br/>
and determine to protect that Burman<br/>
Prince; for there seems to be no ques-<br/>
tion that he is strictly and only a po-<br/>
litical refugee. England, even, is jus-<br/>
tified in protecting the greatest Amer-<br/>
ican rebels that were engaged in the<br/>
late civil war whenever they get fair-<br/>
ly within her jurisdiction, because such<br/>
conduct is according to the internation-<br/>
al code of laws which Christian nations<br/>
have agreed to as being just, and hence<br/>
should be binding upon all nations<br/>
therein concerned. And if the usages of<br/>
heathen nations do not harmonize with<br/>
this, it is high time they should; and<br/>
the king of Siam will be sustained in<br/>
violating a custom that would lead<br/>
him to deliver up a political refugee.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">78</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">47</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">42</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TRELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">90</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">90</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅚</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TAN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGS</td>
 <td>Nominally.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">250</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4@5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6@7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8@9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH</td>
 <td>Plabeng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaalit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mussalla</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF—</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">17</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Ticals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}EXCHANGE—-On Singapore 6 P cent<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
premium 10 d.s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHT.-—Small vessels may find em-<br/>
ployment at from 40 to 45 cents per pl.<br/>
rice to Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following charters have been ef-<br/>
fected viz :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bri. bark "G. Shotton" 62 ½ cents per pl.<br/>
"Fairy" 50<br/>
"Northam" 50
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed since<br/>
the 22nd August, for Hong Kong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bri. bark "Nightingale" 10080 pls rice
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
" ship "Cutty Sark" 9338
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bre. bark "Scharnhorst" 11087<br/>
197 sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Orestes" 3198 pls rice, 590<br/>
sapanwood, 270 teelseed, 1000 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Telegraph" with 4.220<br/>
pls. rice, 200 sapanwood, 1250 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship "Canton" with 14440 pls.<br/>
rice, 700 sapanwood, 98 suger, 230 hides,<br/>
500 teelseed, 300 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Amoy" with 1.715 pls.<br/>
rice, 32 sapanwood,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hanover bark "Gemine Brons" with<br/>
11.826 pls. rice, 359 sapanwood, 230 teel-<br/>
seed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singapore,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer "Chow Puya" with 4603<br/>
pls. rice, 582 suger, 58 hides, 68 teelseed,<br/>
14 silk.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British steamer "Seewoon" with 5.023<br/>
pls. rice, 150 sapanwood, 10 horns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Golden Star" with 1200<br/>
pls. rice, 100 sapanwood, 45 tin, 500<br/>
paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Second King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deeds of the second king of<br/>
Siam, are all recorded on the tablet<br/>
of time, and death has placed the fi-<br/>
nal seal. No change or amendment<br/>
is now possible. It remains for man<br/>
to review his deeds, and award him<br/>
his place in the world's history.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His title before he became a king<br/>
was Chow FA Nor. With this name<br/>
he distinguished himself for his know-<br/>
ledge and love of the arts of the west-<br/>
ern world. He, and his elder royal<br/>
brother, Chow FA Yai, had been set<br/>
aside by the officials empowered to<br/>
establish the succession on the throne<br/>
of Siam, to give place to a still elder<br/>
brother, royal only on his father's side.<br/>
For security Cuow FA Yai entered the<br/>
priesthood and gave himself up to the<br/>
study of philosophy, literature, and re-<br/>
ligion—-while Cnow FA Nor remain-<br/>
ed at the palace on the west of the ri-<br/>
ver, noted as the place where the cele-<br/>
brated Phya Tax held his court<br/>
when Bangkok was first made the ca-<br/>
pital, he was noted for his love of<br/>
whatever was European, and gave<br/>
himself up to the study of the arts as<br/>
practised by the natives of the west.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His watchward was progress. He<br/>
purposed to know what gave to the<br/>
west their development, their success,<br/>
their power, and their influence. His<br/>
ear was open, and his mind awake to<br/>
all that commanded attention in the<br/>
arts. This led him, perhaps, into the<br/>
company of a class of men, that while<br/>
they excelled in practical knowledge<br/>
were not always of equally sterling<br/>
morals, to give a good moral bias.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He studied navigation and the<br/>
art of ship building very early, even<br/>
before there were resident Protestant<br/>
missionaries in Siam. Captain Coffin,<br/>
who took away those twins that have<br/>
been the wonder of the world, was<br/>
one of his first teachers. The fact<br/>
that he made progress, under the<br/>
tedious method alone open to him,<br/>
shows that he was a man of great<br/>
energy. He then knew only a few<br/>
words of English, and there was then<br/>
no foreign resident, with whom he<br/>
communicated, who understood Siam-<br/>
ese. Afterwards Dr. Jones taught<br/>
him to read English and gave him<br/>
some knowledge of arithmetic and<br/>
mathematical astronomy. Eventually<br/>
he spoke English well. No other<br/>
Siamese, perhaps, excelled him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He did not first direct his architec-<br/>
tural skill to ship building. His first<br/>
essays at practical mechanism were<br/>
made at repairing watches. The first<br/>
vessel, after a European model, made<br/>
in Siam, was built by no less a per-<br/>
sonage than the present Prime Minis-<br/>
ter. The first men in the kingdom,<br/>
like Peter the great, have put their<br/>
shoulders to the wheel of progress, with<br/>
a will, and Siam has made great<br/>
strides in mechanism as a consequence.<br/>
The name of the Second King, the<br/>
Prime Minister and others of kin-<br/>
dred spirit will be known to posterity<br/>
as the benefactors of their nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Second King, while yet only a<br/>
prince, built several sailing vessels<br/>
from European models. After Mr.<br/>
Chandler arrived in Siam, the prince<br/>
prosecuted his mechanical efforts un-<br/>
der comparatively favorable auspices,<br/>
and made proportionate advancement.<br/>
He fitted up the first Steam Engine<br/>
in Siam. It was placed in a small<br/>
boat, and plied up and down the Me-<br/>
nam to the no little wonder of the un-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
initiated. The prince also had the<br/>
honor of introducing the first turning<br/>
lathe and setting up the machine shop.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the Siamese had war with<br/>
Cochin-China, during the reign of<br/>
PRA NANG KLAU, CHOW PA NOI was<br/>
made head of the Siamese Navy and<br/>
sent by sea, to aid in the war. This<br/>
brought out his military character.<br/>
Ever after, he showed pride in the<br/>
military department. None left so<br/>
fine an arsenal. None surpassed him,<br/>
in the drill maintained among the sol-<br/>
diery. The naval adventure also,<br/>
gave him an opportunity to perfect<br/>
his knowledge of navigation. He de-<br/>
lighted in practical astronomy, in all<br/>
its bearing upon this department. The<br/>
king put him at the head of the ar-<br/>
tillery of the nation. And however<br/>
meager, the whole military might be,<br/>
compared with the stupendous arrange-<br/>
ments for defense, in the western<br/>
world, compared with what had been<br/>
in Siam and what was, he was pro-<br/>
eminent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His taste for order and neatness and<br/>
system were marked and unequalled.<br/>
He was willing to give himself trouble<br/>
to compass his fixed plans. He was<br/>
always thinking and planing and<br/>
devising and perfecting, completeness<br/>
marked his efforts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was affable and gentlemanly in<br/>
all his intercourse with foreigners, and<br/>
if he did not generously reward ser-<br/>
vices, that were invaluable to him, it<br/>
should be put to the credit of being<br/>
obliged to accomplish great ends with<br/>
small means, rather than any natural<br/>
penuriousness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His palace was the admiration of<br/>
all who visited it. It was built after<br/>
a European model, furnished after<br/>
European manner, and with European<br/>
furniture. And his receptions were<br/>
above invidious criticism. All was order<br/>
and dispatch, with a degree of good<br/>
taste that was quite wonderful, in a man,<br/>
who had never been beyond his own<br/>
little kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER II.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When PRA NANG KLAU, the king<br/>
of the last reign, left the throne va-<br/>
cant, the kingdom seemed in jeopardy,<br/>
because the reigning king had sons,<br/>
who might claim the throne, and the<br/>
royal brothers, who had before been<br/>
set aside, still be left to move in quiet<br/>
life or fight for the throne. But two<br/>
powerful noblemen, and a few staunch<br/>
supporters, gave the priest prince,<br/>
CHOW FA YAI, the reigns of govern-<br/>
ment, and made CHOW FA NOI second<br/>
king, and through the support of these<br/>
powerful men all moved on harmo-<br/>
niously.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The change for CHOW FA NOI was<br/>
to a position of less notoriety, though<br/>
he bare the title of king. He was a<br/>
king in form without the power. He<br/>
had his army, his navy, his court, his<br/>
officials and all the forms of royalty,<br/>
but the first king had all the executive<br/>
power. And more, the Second King<br/>
needed to be exceedingly circumspect,<br/>
lest he might, in some way excite<br/>
envy, jealousy, or suspicion, and so<br/>
loose his place or even his head. This<br/>
fact made him act under restraint.<br/>
The position was not favorable to<br/>
the full development, or the full exer-<br/>
tion of his native and acquired abili-<br/>
ties, yet he showed his sagacity not<br/>
the less, by avoiding every act that<br/>
might seem to covet for himself chief<br/>
honor in the passing events of the<br/>
kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was more strictly a private gen-<br/>
tleman than while he was prince, and<br/>
gave himself to those departments<br/>
that could not awaken suspicion. He<br/>
loved to conduct all his correspondence<br/>
in such a way as to give him respect<br/>
abroad, and unlike his royal brother,<br/>
never could himself write so hand-<br/>
somely or compose so elegantly, that<br/>
he could not better meet the demands<br/>
of his cultivated taste, by one who<br/>
received an accomplished western<br/>
education. He was not willing to dis-<br/>
pense with a secretary even in his<br/>
simplest correspondence. He had the<br/>
habit of composition though he<br/>
wrote with quite superior penmanship.<br/>
His ideas were much beyond his own<br/>
power to execute, and none knew bet-<br/>
ter then himself how to call in foreign<br/>
aid. To secure a handsome ceremonial<br/>
note, he would dispatch a royal barge of<br/>
some twenty men, to call in the aid<br/>
of a foreign and educated friend. It<br/>
was something to occupy his thought<br/>
and please his taste.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He found much amusement and<br/>
employment in building some beauti-<br/>
ful pleasure boats and steamers and<br/>
gun-boats. He was always receiving<br/>
from abroad all the improvements in<br/>
fire arms, and found occupation in<br/>
writing orders and making suitable<br/>
acknowledgments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But his life of restraint was not fa-<br/>
vorable to his health. He grew hypo-<br/>
chondriacal. His low spirits made his<br/>
health worse. From month to month<br/>
he grew still more ill till it was whis-<br/>
pered that he could not recover. The<br/>
announcement produced general regret.<br/>
And with none more than the king.<br/>
He was a firm pillar of the state. The<br/>
king knew what he should loose in his<br/>
brother. He loved and respected him<br/>
and was in deep sorrow at the thought<br/>
of loosing him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was in the ante-room in one of<br/>
the last visits the king made his dy-<br/>
ing brother. At that time the clos-<br/>
ing event was hourly expected. The<br/>
king came with no blast of bugle, with<br/>
no messengers preparing the way. His<br/>
arrival was announced in whispers.<br/>
He stole quietly into the ante-room,<br/>
waiting near the door of the sick room,<br/>
till he might be admitted to his bro-<br/>
thers side, and his train, composed of<br/>
his own daughters, sisters, nieces and<br/>
some of the next prominent ladies of<br/>
his court crouched around the ante-<br/>
room in solemn silence. We watched<br/>
breathlessly as he passed into the sick<br/>
room. He remained but a little time,<br/>
and when he returned seemed over-<br/>
whelmed with grief. He bowed low<br/>
as he crouched at the door and we saw<br/>
at a look that all hope was gone. The<br/>
whole company bowed with him and<br/>
wept. There was no lamentation, no<br/>
sound even, it was deep silent grief.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yet the king in his sorrow did not<br/>
forget his country. That very day<br/>
was a glad day connected with some<br/>
hair cutting ceremony, which pro-<br/>
claimed to the people, that his royal<br/>
son was passing from the ranks of<br/>
childhood and might be a centre to<br/>
cluster the hopes of the nation. The<br/>
old props were being removed true,<br/>
but a royal heir was coming into their<br/>
ranks. Long live Crow Fa [?] Cur-La<br/>
Lox Kons. On him the eyes of the<br/>
council, that establishes the line of<br/>
kings for Siam will be constantly<br/>
turned. He should be trained to be<br/>
king. Though he might, like his royal<br/>
father, for a time give place to another,<br/>
his superior in age and wisdom. He is<br/>
right royal and the people will love<br/>
to honor him. May he live to ascend<br/>
the throne of his fathers, sustained by<br/>
men as true and loyal as have sustained<br/>
him, who now sits upon the throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Second King did all honor to<br/>
the throne. Let all honor be paid his<br/>
memory and to his children who live<br/>
to imitate his virtues. He has a<br/>
GEORGE WASHINGTON among his<br/>
sons, winning the hearts of his coun-<br/>
trymen, as did he whose name he<br/>
bears, by his kind and thoughtful de-<br/>
meanor. The sons of the Second King<br/>
as well as those of the first, ought to<br/>
have knowledge—science—the disci-<br/>
pline of the schools. They should have<br/>
teachers, and the present king could<br/>
do his country no greater good, and<br/>
give his royal brother no better token<br/>
of affection than by educating his large<br/>
family of children.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having re-<br/>
cieved instructions from Messrs<br/>
E. Buchanan & Co Engineers of Lon-<br/>
don, to leave Siam in their service, begs<br/>
to inform the community of Bangkok,<br/>
that he transfers the Engineering A-<br/>
gency of the said firm in Siam to Al-<br/>
fred Nelson Esqr. who will from this<br/>
date recieve orders in their behalf.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
J. S. BARLOW
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sept. 13th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAI RAWT would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he is prepared to<br/>
paint pictures of the peculiar fruits<br/>
flowers, and leaves of the country in a<br/>
style which he has been encouraged to<br/>
hope will be quite acceptable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His place of residence is on the Ca-<br/>
nal Padoong krasem opposite Wat Kok<br/>
near the ricefields on the east side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prices of the several pictures<br/>
are as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A branch with fruit and flowers is<br/>
1 Tical. But if the buyer takes sev-<br/>
eral pictures of the same kind the<br/>
price will be only ½ of a Tical
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the buyer wishes a compound pic-<br/>
ture of several branches, having several<br/>
kinds of fruit, the price will be 2 Tic-<br/>
als. And if of such pictures several<br/>
be taken the price will be 1½ Ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the purchaser must furnish the<br/>
paper for the pictures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the purchaser wishes to have the<br/>
interior of the fruit represented it shall<br/>
be done
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rebellion in Upper Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Under the heading of the Startling<br/>
News from the Burmese Capital, we<br/>
published in an Extra on Wednesday last.<br/>
"That the intelligence from Mandalay is<br/>
to the effect that on the 2nd instant<br/>
(August) two sons of the King of Burmah<br/>
murdered their Uncle the Ein Shee Meng.<br/>
After that by zheir orders two of their<br/>
half brothers, three of the Woongyees<br/>
and other leading men were murdered."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Thongzay Prince, who fromerly<br/>
came to Rangoon, has escaped from the<br/>
city. There appears every probability<br/>
that no more bloodshed will take place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Europeans are safe and unmolested.<br/>
No difficulty as respects intercourse be-<br/>
tween the Burmese and British Govern-<br/>
ments is anticipated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To intelligent Europeans, Burmese<br/>
politics always present a very entangled<br/>
web, around which the secrecy of Orien-<br/>
tal Courts adds greatly to the perplexity<br/>
of the subject. But we may perhaps<br/>
make this matter plain by stating that<br/>
the present King has a large number of<br/>
sons, between thirty and forty altogether.<br/>
Most of these boys are of tender age,<br/>
but a few of them are rapidly advancing<br/>
into manhood, or have already attained<br/>
to that period of life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since the accession to the throne of<br/>
the present King in December 1852, his<br/>
brother by the same mother, called the<br/>
Ein Shee Meng, was regarded both by the<br/>
Court and the population as the Heir ap-<br/>
parent to the Throne. The meaning of<br/>
the Burmese title by which he was ad-<br/>
dressed, implied this heirship. But as<br/>
the King and the royal brother were both<br/>
rising in years, the former being fifty five<br/>
and the latter fifty two, the younger<br/>
branch thought it high time to act as all<br/>
their predecessors had done, to strike for<br/>
the throne. A Burman monarch never<br/>
dies in power. He is generally either<br/>
put down by some conspiracy, or placed<br/>
in confinement. King Tharrawaddee,<br/>
the father of the late and present Bur-<br/>
mese sovereign, was made a prisoner by<br/>
his eldest surviving son, who mounted<br/>
the throne and retained his father a cap-<br/>
tive during the remainder of his life.<br/>
Similarly the Paghan Meng, or the late<br/>
king was hurled from power by a rising<br/>
of the people at the capital, during the<br/>
last war with the British government. He<br/>
was considered a mere puppit in the<br/>
hands of a few persons and utterly unfit<br/>
to govern. The Men-doon Meng then<br/>
mounted the throne and has kept his half<br/>
brother the Paghan Meng a prisoner ever<br/>
since. The deposed king has no sons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the events which have taken place<br/>
at the Burmese capital within the last<br/>
few days, the throne of the present and<br/>
very popular king seems to be shaking.<br/>
A rebellion is always a precursor of a<br/>
revolution. The direct succession stood<br/>
up to a recent date as follows:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. Brother of the king—Ein Shee Meng,<br/>
who is reported to have been assassinated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. Eldest son of the king, The Ma-<br/>
toon Mentha, age about 25 years; also<br/>
murdered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. Second son of the king, The Thong-<br/>
zay prince, age about 24 years fled from<br/>
the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. Third son of the king, The Men-<br/>
goon prince, about 23 years of age; fled<br/>
from the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. Fourth son of the king, The Mek-<br/>
kara prince age, 22 years in the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. Fifth son of the King, The Tagoo<br/>
Mentha, age about 21 years, supposed<br/>
to be in the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Up to the breaking out of the rebellion<br/>
these were the principal members of the<br/>
royal family of Burma. As will be ob-<br/>
served, the game for the throne lies be-<br/>
tween the Thongzay prince and the<br/>
Mengoon prince. All of these princes<br/>
are half brothers, being born of different<br/>
mothers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to Burmese custom, the<br/>
prince who aspires to the throne, escapes<br/>
as quietly and as quickly as he can away<br/>
from the royal city. In the country, he<br/>
and his followers raise the standard of<br/>
revolt. They rally all the banditti and<br/>
dacoits throughout the country, and lure<br/>
them on by promises of plunder. As the<br/>
game is still playing, it is impossible to<br/>
tell who will be the next King of Burmah.<br/>
That the good and friendly King will be<br/>
dethroned, there is no doubt. His life<br/>
will be spared, and the remainder of his<br/>
days will be spent as a captive. As it is<br/>
unusual to retain two deposed Kings at<br/>
one time in the royal city, the fate of the<br/>
Paghan King may be considered as deci-<br/>
ded. He will be quietly put out of the<br/>
way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two of the three Woongyees, or Minis-<br/>
ters of State who have been murdered<br/>
are known, one was the Myadoung or as<br/>
he was commonly styled the Paibay<br/>
Woongyee, who was the Commander-in-<br/>
Chief of the city, of the royal troops, of<br/>
the arsenal and palace. The other<br/>
Woongyee was Loungshay, the King's<br/>
special and confidential friend and adviser<br/>
in all matters pertaining to the welfare of<br/>
the kingdom. The third Minister of State<br/>
is not known, at least his name has not<br/>
been mentioned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among others who have been assassi-<br/>
nated in the course of recent events, is<br/>
the celebrated Moung Oke, the ex Bur-<br/>
mese Governor of Rangoon, to whose<br/>
rapacity and ferocity toward Europeans,<br/>
the last war was attributable. He held<br/>
no office, but his brother is Master of the<br/>
Horse and governor of Moke-so-bo, the<br/>
district just north of the capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The British government can feel no<br/>
concern in these tragic proceedings. We<br/>
cannot interfere in a civil war among the<br/>
Burmese. If they refrain from doing us<br/>
any injury, we shall allow them to settle<br/>
their quarrels among themselves. If they<br/>
attack out Resident, or kill any European<br/>
we shall be down upon them in double<br/>
quick time for justice and redress.— RAN-<br/>
GOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds & Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Scarcely anything in life is so sweet<br/>
as the repose of Sunday—-the soothing<br/>
suggestion of its devouter offices, its si-<br/>
lence, its calm, its immunities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-When Voltaire was told that a friend<br/>
of his was studying to become a physici-<br/>
an, he exclaimed. "Why will he be so<br/>
mad? He will have to thrust drugs of<br/>
which he knows but little, into a body of<br/>
which he knows less."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"Ah, me," said a pious lady, "Our<br/>
minister was a powerful preacher; for<br/>
the short time he ministered the word of<br/>
God among us, he kicked three pulpits<br/>
to pieces and banged the in'ards out of<br/>
five Bibles."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The habitual conviction of the pre-<br/>
sence of God is the sovereign remedy in<br/>
temptations; it supports, it consoles, it<br/>
calms us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The best defence of lying that we<br/>
ever read, is the remark of Charles Lamb,<br/>
related by Leigh Hunt, that "truth was<br/>
precious and not to be wasted on every-<br/>
body."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A woman being enjoined to try<br/>
the effect of kindness on her husband,<br/>
and being told that it would heap<br/>
coals of fire on his head, replied that<br/>
she had tried "boiling water, and it<br/>
didn't do a bit of good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Elder Knapp, speaking of long<br/>
prayers once said: "When Peter was<br/>
endeavoring to walk upon the water<br/>
to meet his Master, and was about<br/>
sinking, had his supplication been like<br/>
to our modern prayers, before he got<br/>
through he would have been fifty feet<br/>
under water.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Anecdotes of Dogs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. ADSHEAD, one of our Derbyshire<br/>
correspondents writes:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I live in the country, and have<br/>
often occasion to be from home for<br/>
weeks together. During my absence<br/>
my dog (a very valuable one of the<br/>
bull and terrier breed), displays an<br/>
amount of sagacity, which to me is<br/>
quite as interesting as it is singular.<br/>
During my stay at home he quietly<br/>
sleeps in the back kitchen, but on the<br/>
night of the day that I leave home,<br/>
he makes his way up-stairs to the bed-<br/>
room where my wife sleeps, when he<br/>
creeps under the bed, and from thence<br/>
he will neither be coaxed nor driven<br/>
until the morning, as much as to say,<br/>
"I know your natural protector is<br/>
gone, so here I will remain and do<br/>
the best I can to guard you." This<br/>
the dog does every night until my re-<br/>
turn, when he goes back to his old<br/>
quarters in the kitchen, and there re-<br/>
mains until I again take my departure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has not been taught to act thus<br/>
and I can only refer his conduct to<br/>
that sagacious apprehension of con-<br/>
sequences which has led many dogs<br/>
aforetime to place themselves in sit-<br/>
uations where they have become the<br/>
means of saving life, and defending<br/>
property."—-British Workman.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
