---
linkTitle: 'January 18th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - January 18th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); January 18th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 26
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, JANUARY 18th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 2.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Automaton Type Setter
And its Lessons.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
HUMAN INTELLIGENCE DISPENSED
WITH BY MACHINERY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SOME FEW WORDS TO OUR PRACTICAL PRINTERS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the most curious of the<br/>
phenomena attending that develope-<br/>
ment of the human mind known as<br/>
“conservative” is its apparently in-<br/>
stinctive repugnance to everything which<br/>
smacks of innovation while promising<br/>
improvement. When Stevenson propos-<br/>
ed constructing a railroad and drawing<br/>
trains from Birmingham to London by<br/>
steam-power at the rate of fifteen miles<br/>
an hour, the whole “conservative” in-<br/>
terest of England rose up as one man<br/>
to denounce the mad folly of the ex-<br/>
perimentalist—the dreamer; even the<br/>
otherwise progressive intellects of the<br/>
Edinburgh Review being so carried<br/>
away by the popular tornado of ridi-<br/>
cule which his proposition evoked as<br/>
to exclaim: “What! be carried fifteen<br/>
miles an hour! Why does not the<br/>
savant at once propose that each pas-<br/>
senger shall creep into a cannon and be<br/>
fired off by gunpowder from point to<br/>
point at a corresponding rate of speed!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So, too, when the proposition to<br/>
light London by gas was first mooted,<br/>
the matter was brought before the<br/>
British House of Commons as another<br/>
diabolical Guy Fawkes attempt on a<br/>
grand scale, not only to blow up the<br/>
two Houses of Parliament, but the en-<br/>
tire capital of the nation as well.<br/>
Nothing could persuade certain “con-<br/>
servative” members—-starting with the<br/>
propositions that gas was inflammable<br/>
and would explode—-but that the fire<br/>
communicated to any single burner<br/>
would instantly run up through all the<br/>
pipes and mains underlying the city,<br/>
finally reaching the chief reservoirs of<br/>
the gas-house, and causing an explo-<br/>
sion and general conflagration to which<br/>
the terrors of an ordinary earthquake<br/>
would be as nothing. It was of no use<br/>
to try persuading this class of people<br/>
that the gas required a certain amount<br/>
of oxygen to develop its explosive, or<br/>
even its inflammable qualities, and that<br/>
no flame could penetrate one eighth of<br/>
an inch within the mouth even of the<br/>
largest average pipe. They drew their<br/>
analogies from gunpowder, and to them<br/>
laying gas-pipes and mains under the<br/>
city was nothing more nor less than<br/>
the deliberate construction of explosive<br/>
mines for the utter blotting out and<br/>
destruction of the British capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Against Stevenson and his locomo-<br/>
tive stood arrayed all the classes hav-<br/>
ing, directly or indirectly, any interest<br/>
in the then mail-coaching and post-<br/>
horse system of English travel—-all the<br/>
hotel proprietors along the various<br/>
roads, and all the farmers supplying<br/>
forage to maintain the old, lumbering<br/>
machinery of the existing modes of<br/>
transportation, being in red-hot op-<br/>
position. All these were vehement in<br/>
asserting that utter ruin and beggary<br/>
to them and theirs must follow, if<br/>
Stevenson’s “crazy experiment” should<br/>
prove successful; and it took years of<br/>
experience to demonstrate that the<br/>
number of travelers would increase in<br/>
exact proportion with the increased<br/>
facilities of travel; that the hotels would<br/>
be fuller and better paid than ever<br/>
theretofore, and that more men and<br/>
horses would be required to attend at<br/>
the various depots and to work in con-<br/>
nection with the railroad, than had<br/>
previously been required for the mail-<br/>
coaching, post-horse, and express-<br/>
wagon systems, all together. It was<br/>
so, also, in relation to the introduction<br/>
of gas—thousands of really alarmed<br/>
“conservatives” regarding the exper-<br/>
iment as one of extreme hazard, if not<br/>
certain destruction, to life, limb, and<br/>
property; and yet other thousands of<br/>
tradesmen, holding an interest; direct<br/>
or collateral, in the chandlery, oil, and<br/>
whaling occupations, seeing only in<br/>
the adoption of this new mode of light-<br/>
ing cities and houses the complete<br/>
ruin and loss of all their business in-<br/>
vestments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In like manner, and with just as lit-<br/>
tle reason, we see a flutter to-day a-<br/>
mongst our practical printers as they<br/>
contemplate the success and general<br/>
introduction of the Alden Type-set-<br/>
ting and Type-distributing Machine,<br/>
which has just been brought to per-<br/>
fection, and is now in process of being<br/>
universally introduced through the<br/>
newspapers and publishing houses of<br/>
the country by the exertions and per-<br/>
severance of Mr. Charles C. Yeaton,<br/>
on whom seems to have devolved the<br/>
laborious, but doubtless profitable,<br/>
honor of carrying forward to popular<br/>
adoption that invention upon which<br/>
Timothy Alden prodigally squandered<br/>
the genius and the labors of his life<br/>
through twenty toilsome and impover-<br/>
ished years; and upon which, also,<br/>
his cousin, Henry W. Alden, expended<br/>
long years of painful industry, and all<br/>
the wealth he could accumulate in the<br/>
hot mines of our Pacific Eldorado. In<br/>
the success of this truly wonderful and<br/>
beautiful machine, our printers, we say,<br/>
will insist upon seeing only the ruin<br/>
of their craft, and themselves obliged<br/>
to apply to new vocations; whereas—-<br/>
rightly considered—-we think they<br/>
should hail in the completion of the<br/>
Alden Type-setter a guaranty of easier<br/>
pleasanter, and more ample employ-<br/>
ment than they have ever heretofore<br/>
enjoyed, coupled with an assurance<br/>
that their rates of remuneration will<br/>
rise in proportion with the more exal-<br/>
ted character of their work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is true that one of these machines<br/>
—-requiring only two workers, either<br/>
male or female—will do daily the work<br/>
of six or eight practical printers using<br/>
only their fingers; and that the ma-<br/>
chines are even now so cheap—and<br/>
promising to be yet cheaper—as to<br/>
fall within easy reach of even the hum-<br/>
blest printing-office. But what is<br/>
there in all this, save an unerring pro-<br/>
phecy that the amount of printing<br/>
done will be quintupled whenever the<br/>
Alden Factory can turn out enough<br/>
machines to supply the existing de-<br/>
mand; and that even this increased<br/>
amount will soon be doubled or trebled,<br/>
whenever the increased facilities for<br/>
producing books, pamphlets, and news-<br/>
papers shall have produced the inevi-<br/>
table cheapening and more wide dif-<br/>
fusion of these articles of prime men-<br/>
tal necessity? It requires to-day quite<br/>
a flourishing town or community to<br/>
support a daily or even weekly paper<br/>
in a manner profitable to its propriet-<br/>
ors and to those who work on it; but,<br/>
with these Alden Type-setters and<br/>
Type distributers scattered broadcast<br/>
over the land, there will soon be no<br/>
town so small, no frontier village so<br/>
remote, as to be without its daily<br/>
paper, throbbing intelligence from all<br/>
quarters of the world into the minds<br/>
of its subscribers. Indeed, as Col.<br/>
Halpine has well observed in his pro-<br/>
gressive Cities, “This machine may<br/>
be regarded as an inauguration of<br/>
every man his own printer and pub-<br/>
lisher; and before many years, we<br/>
expect they will be as common an<br/>
institution in first-class houses as<br/>
steam-heaters, iron safes, a billiard-ta-<br/>
ble, or refrigerating meat-safe."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So simple is the method of setting<br/>
up type in this manner, as to be not<br/>
only intelligible, but readily practica-<br/>
ble, by any person of ordinary sense<br/>
on the first time of seeing it. Attached<br/>
to the machine is a key-board, each<br/>
key marked with the letter or combin-<br/>
ation of letters which it controls, so<br/>
that the operator has only to read the<br/>
copy before him, and spell the same<br/>
out with his forefinger by pressing on<br/>
the proper keys. Of course, the mat-<br/>
ter thus set up must subsequently be<br/>
"spaced" and "justified" in another<br/>
part of the machine-—either by a sec-<br/>
ond operator, specially caring there-<br/>
for, or by the first operator suspend-<br/>
ing further type-setting until this work<br/>
is accomplished, and the conducting<br/>
type-canals cleared of their burden.<br/>
Nothing more simple in appearance<br/>
and execution has ever been witnessed<br/>
—no matter, at what cost of complex<br/>
internal mechanical contrivances and<br/>
adjustments the result may have been<br/>
obtained. Any child, able to read<br/>
and spell correctly, may be made mas-<br/>
ter of this method of type-setting in<br/>
a few and easy lessons; and certainly,<br/>
in this age of scientific toys, no toy<br/>
more brilliantly interesting or instruc-<br/>
tive could be placed within reach of<br/>
any child.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
More curious, however, than the<br/>
type-setting part of its performance is<br/>
that of type-distributing, in which the<br/>
machine acts completely as an autom-<br/>
aton, requiring no human supervision<br/>
or interference of any kind, other than<br/>
to be fed from time to time with the<br/>
columns which are to be distributed,<br/>
and to be continually supplied with<br/>
the motive-power requisite to rotation<br/>
—-a power that may consist either of<br/>
steam, caloric, water, or the ordinary<br/>
treadle worked by the operator's foot.<br/>
Odd, is it not! to see a mere machine<br/>
of brass and iron comprehending the<br/>
significance of letters and their charac-<br/>
ter, spelling out and unspelling words,<br/>
and carrying each letter off quietly<br/>
and noiselessly to its appointed place<br/>
of deposit! These words are in "bre-<br/>
vier," and to the proper brevier feed-<br/>
ing canals each letter of each word is<br/>
quickly and infallibly carried. But<br/>
now the machine recognizes some<br/>
words in Latin or in French, (for all<br/>
languages appear equally familiar to<br/>
it), and these, as is customary, are set<br/>
up in "nonpareil" or "agate." No,<br/>
matter what the character of the type<br/>
—-"bourgeois" or "minion"—-each<br/>
letter of each word is relegated to the<br/>
proper receptacle of its kindred and<br/>
particular household: and all this with<br/>
no possibility of any error, and with-<br/>
out supervision or interference of any<br/>
kind from any human being. Human<br/>
thought has planned the machine, and<br/>
eternized its own existence by mecha-<br/>
nical provision. Human eyes have<br/>
grown weary, and some have closed<br/>
in death, during the process of con-<br/>
structing this miraculous automaton;<br/>
but in their foresight of all needs, and<br/>
the contrivances they suggested and<br/>
made to meet them, that sight has be-<br/>
come embodied in the metallic fingers<br/>
before us, and the human control of<br/>
intelligence and education is perpetu-<br/>
ated in a body of mixed metal', hav-<br/>
ing neither brains nor eyes, and yet<br/>
able to read, spell, and act correctly,<br/>
under the mechanically-continued<br/>
direction of the minds that originally<br/>
planned its intricate and complex oper-<br/>
ations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When Arkwright first invented and<br/>
introduced the spinning-jenny, the<br/>
miserably underpaid and miserably<br/>
suffering handloom weavers, and other<br/>
operatives in textile fabrics of central<br/>
England, declared that it must be their<br/>
ruin; and that, poor as they had been<br/>
before, this discovery was to dispense<br/>
with their services altogether, and<br/>
leave them no alternative but the cold<br/>
charity of the work-house, or the yet<br/>
colder embrace of the filthy clay in<br/>
the Potter's Field. They rose in their<br/>
ignorance and wrath to destroy the<br/>
obnoxious invention of Arkwright, and<br/>
dire and bloody were their threats—-<br/>
and in some cases, until repressed by<br/>
military force, bloody and lawless were<br/>
their acts—-against all employers who<br/>
sought to put into operation that ma-<br/>
chine to which England this day grate-<br/>
fully owes chief part of her commercial<br/>
prosperity. They could not see—in<br/>
their ignorance and want of foresight<br/>
—-that by multiplying the facilities<br/>
and cheapening the cost of cotton fab-<br/>
rics, the demand for and production<br/>
of such articles would be increased, not<br/>
only in arithmetical, but even in geo-<br/>
metrical progression ; nor could their<br/>
imaginations picture—-in lieu of the<br/>
few hundred miserable hovels in which<br/>
some few thousands of them miserably<br/>
worked at rates of compensation just<br/>
enough to keep body and soul togeth-<br/>
er—the vast and splendid factories and<br/>
massive warehousing streets of Man-<br/>
chester, and its subsidiary towns, em-<br/>
ploying, at good wages and with every<br/>
surrounding conducive to health, ed-<br/>
ucation, and comfort, not less than two<br/>
millions of the most intelligent and,<br/>
until our recent war, the most steadily<br/>
prosperous artificers, male and female,<br/>
of the British Empire or all Europe.<br/>
Let this lesson not be lost upon our<br/>
practical printers—-a class of excellent<br/>
intelligence, and of great educational<br/>
advantages from the necessities of their<br/>
profession. Let them only examine<br/>
these Alden Type-setting Machines dis-<br/>
passionately, and reflect upon what<br/>
must be the inevitable results of their<br/>
popular diffusion. This done, it can-<br/>
not be but that they will hail in them<br/>
a release from the painful and often<br/>
noxious drudgery of their calling as at<br/>
present exercised; and foresee the time<br/>
when, with enough of these machines<br/>
in existence to give occupation to all,<br/>
their labors will be more light, more<br/>
healthful, more pleasant, in greater<br/>
demand, and at higher rates of com-<br/>
pensation than even the "Printers'<br/>
Union" has yet dreamed of asking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now, in conclusion, a few words<br/>
as to Mr. Yeaton, the practical father<br/>
of this Alden machine in its present<br/>
shape, and with its present prospects<br/>
of rapidly superseding all other means<br/>
for the diffusion of printed thought.<br/>
He is still very young—-probably not<br/>
over thirty—-and was born in Ports-<br/>
mouth, New Hampshire. Descended<br/>
by the mother's side from Gen. Sul-<br/>
livan, of the revolutionary war, he has<br/>
in his veins the ardor of this Milesian<br/>
stream blended with the cooler, clearer,<br/>
more calculating and persevering cur-<br/>
rent of the New England character.<br/>
This combination in his case—-if not<br/>
in all cases-—proves a happy one ; and<br/>
it may well be doubted whether any<br/>
man less endowed with fire to hope<br/>
and patience to labor could have car-<br/>
ried forward this great work to its pre-<br/>
sent condition of completeness. From<br/>
his earliest youth the aptitude of his<br/>
mental and physical powers to me-<br/>
chanical pursuits attracted attention ;<br/>
and from the days in which, when but<br/>
twelve years old, he entered into part-<br/>
nership with another boy of about<br/>
equal age on a capital of one "Yankee<br/>
shilling," and made a profit of $43 in<br/>
a month by the manufacture of martin<br/>
houses, snow-shovels, wind-mills, and<br/>
other kindred toys, down to the pre-<br/>
sent day, no species of mechanical<br/>
work in wood, brass, iron, or any other<br/>
workable material, can be set before<br/>
him of which he is not, or cannot read-<br/>
ily make himself, the master. In the<br/>
India-rubber business, with Horace<br/>
H. Day, and in the manufacture and<br/>
sale of sewing-machines, with Grover<br/>
and Baker, he found himself equally<br/>
at home, as if by instinct ; and during<br/>
the past five years of his active and<br/>
noteworthy life, his investigations, la-<br/>
bors, and the confidence he commands<br/>
with our business men, have converted<br/>
the original discovery of Timothy Al-<br/>
den from a beautiful but terribly cost-<br/>
ly and unremunerative experiment, in<br/>
which no prudent capitalist would em-<br/>
bark more means, into a great practi-<br/>
cal and financial success of world-wide<br/>
acknowledgment—-not merely com-<br/>
manding all the capital it needs, but<br/>
with capital pressing to be allowed a<br/>
share in it—-and promising in its re-<br/>
sults to mark a new era in the art of<br/>
printing, only second in importance<br/>
to that original discovery for which<br/>
Dr. Faustus is alleged, in German fable,<br/>
to have periled his soul's redemption.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Independent.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Precious Stones their
VALUES AND TESTS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Emmanuel in his book on Dia-<br/>
monds estimates values, of course, by<br/>
the carat, the lapidary's standard, or<br/>
the hundred and fifty-first part of an<br/>
ounce Troy, consisting of four grains.<br/>
The dearest stone is the ruby, which<br/>
sells at from £14 to £20 for one carat<br/>
weight to from £400 to £450 for four<br/>
carats. A really splendid ruby ring<br/>
with a perfect single stone of two carats<br/>
will cost 85/. The next dearest is the<br/>
diamond, the price referring only to<br/>
“brilliants,” or diamonds thick enough<br/>
to admit of proper cutting. Such dia-<br/>
monds, when perfect, cost from £5 10<br/>
for ½ carat and £18 for 1 carat to<br/>
£100 for 2½ carats. A diamond ring,<br/>
therefore with a single magnificent<br/>
stone of two carats, ought to be pur-<br/>
chaseable for 70/., or about 83 per cent<br/>
of the value of a similar ring in ruby.<br/>
Though the price per carat of the<br/>
emerald may vary from 20/. to 40/.<br/>
it does not rise in proportion with its<br/>
size. So of the sapphire. A fine per-<br/>
fect, evenly coloured, spread sapphire,<br/>
weighing one carat, of a deep rich blue<br/>
colour by night as well as by day,<br/>
is worth 20/.; whilst a sapphire equal-<br/>
ly fine, of 100 carats, would not be<br/>
worth more than 2,000l. Legacy duty<br/>
has been paid upon a sapphire supposed<br/>
to be worth 10,000/. Pearls, of 80<br/>
to 100 grains, may be estimated at 7/.<br/>
to 11/. per grain; those of 50 to 80<br/>
grains, at from 4/. to 7/. per grain;<br/>
and those of 30 to 50 grains, at from<br/>
3/. to 5/. per grain; smaller sizes<br/>
bring from 20 to 60s. per grain. Or-<br/>
dinary pearls fetch lower prices, a pearl<br/>
of 1 grain weight being worth half-a-<br/>
crown. Gas and grease injure pearls.<br/>
All these values apply only to the best<br/>
specimens. Nothing that a file will cut<br/>
is a precious stone; the file should be<br/>
used on both sides, to avoid the trick,<br/>
very common in Italy, of fastening<br/>
a slice of the real article on to a false<br/>
basis; a stone cannot be genuine of<br/>
very much less than its proper specific<br/>
gravity. As to colour hold a stone in<br/>
clear water about an inch from the<br/>
surface, and the shades will be at once<br/>
apparent, and the points at which they<br/>
glide into each other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTIFICATION
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned H. B. M. Envoy<br/>
extraordinary and minister plenipo-<br/>
tentiary has the satisfaction of making<br/>
known for the information of all sub-<br/>
jects of Her Majesty, that the negocia-<br/>
tion in which he has been engaged at<br/>
Osok in concert with his colleagues the<br/>
representative of France, the United<br/>
States of America and Holland have<br/>
been attended with the following<br/>
result:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st.-—The Mikado has given his for-<br/>
mal sanction to the Treaties concluded<br/>
by the Tycoon with the foreign powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2nd.—-Negotiations for the revision<br/>
of the Tariff on a basis agreed upon,<br/>
will at once be proceeded with at Yed-<br/>
do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3rd.—-The opening of the port of<br/>
Hiogo and the city of Osaka, is guar-<br/>
anteed at the time mentioned in the<br/>
London Convention of 1862, or an<br/>
earlier date if circumstances should<br/>
permit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
HARRY S. PARKS.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M’s Envoy Extraordinary<br/>
and Minister Plenipotentiary in Ja-<br/>
pan.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fire Extinguisher.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An invention for the extinction of<br/>
fires, the property of MM. Courtinez<br/>
and Monnet, was tried a few days ago<br/>
in the Rue d'Abbeville. A pile of<br/>
faggots saturated with tar and petrol-<br/>
ium was erected in a large courtyard,<br/>
and then set fire to. When the whole was<br/>
thoroughly in flames, the inventor ap-<br/>
proached with a small metal cylinder,<br/>
and from an issue effected by means<br/>
of a spring in it, a stream of liquid<br/>
was projected on the burning pile; in<br/>
less than two minutes the fire was com-<br/>
pletely extinguished. The effect was<br/>
produced by water charged with chem-<br/>
icals having the property of producing<br/>
carbonic acid gas. The cylinders may<br/>
be prepared beforehand, and the li-<br/>
quid preserves its quality for more than<br/>
two years. As the apparatus occupies<br/>
but little space, it may be always kept<br/>
ready on board ship, or in a corner of<br/>
a theater or apartment. When requir-<br/>
ed for use, all that has to be done is<br/>
to open the top; the liquid then rush-<br/>
es out with a force sufficient, it is said,<br/>
to project it to the height of the sec-<br/>
ond floor of a house.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January, 18th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Royal Tonsure
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to our promise in our<br/>
last issue we will now give a particular<br/>
account of the late royal festival for<br/>
the tonsure of Prince Chowya Chu-la-<br/>
longkorn. And this we do particu-<br/>
larly for the benefit of our readers who<br/>
were not present to witness it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king had very po-<br/>
litely invited all European and Ameri-<br/>
can residents together with transient<br/>
visitors to the extraordinary festival.<br/>
This he did a week or more before the<br/>
time, through the six foreign consuls,<br/>
resident in the city. The purpose of<br/>
the royal invitation was, that His Ma-<br/>
jesty the king would be pleased to<br/>
have all the white faced foreigners wit-<br/>
ness the ceremonies, and would have<br/>
provided for them eligible locations<br/>
for observation and comfortable seats,<br/>
together with suitable interpreters for<br/>
any that might need such aid for un-<br/>
derstanding what they would see.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first three days of the festival<br/>
were chiefly occupied in extraordinary<br/>
religious ceremonies, preparatory to<br/>
the fourth day on, which the topknot<br/>
which had been most carefully pre-<br/>
served thirteen years, was to be removed<br/>
from its highly revered location and<br/>
cast away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was our privilege to be present<br/>
only on that great culminating day<br/>
of the festival; but not quite early<br/>
enough to witness the procession by<br/>
which the Prince was escorted to the<br/>
hall where the ceremony of cutting<br/>
the hair took place. It was reported<br/>
to be most imposing and august, as we<br/>
could readily believe from what we<br/>
afterwards saw. Neither did we see<br/>
the act of applying first the regal shears<br/>
and then the razor to the head of the<br/>
PRINCE. The same failure, it is be-<br/>
lieved, all the foreign guests, shared<br/>
equally with ourselves, and the reason<br/>
of it was not explained to us. We<br/>
only know that the Prince, a beautiful<br/>
lad with his topknot neatly dressed,<br/>
was escorted into the Pra mahá pra-<br/>
sat and that he came out of that half<br/>
hour of seclusion from foreign gaze as<br/>
bald as an eagle, and to our eye great-<br/>
ly disfigured by the loss he had sus-<br/>
tained in the act of tonsure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great display of the day was<br/>
made in the inner court of the old<br/>
royal palace. Within this area of<br/>
about half an acre there had been<br/>
erected for the occasion an artificial<br/>
mountain called Trei-lat, to re-<br/>
present as we understand it, one of<br/>
the Himalaya mountains on which<br/>
the Brahmin god Indus is supposed to<br/>
bestow his blessings upon those who<br/>
revere and seek him. Buddhism,<br/>
though originally in diametrical oppo-<br/>
sition to Brahminism, has for many<br/>
hundreds of years been courting the<br/>
favors of the latter, at least so far as<br/>
the kingdom of Siam is concerned,<br/>
and is now paying great deference to<br/>
very many of its rites and ceremonies.<br/>
Indeed by far the greater part of the<br/>
superstitions now practiced by the<br/>
Buddhists in Siam are of Brahminical<br/>
origin. If we mistake not, all the<br/>
ceremonies connected with that ton-<br/>
sure festival were of this class.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The artificial mountain in the palace<br/>
court yard was about 50 feet high,<br/>
having a circumference probably not<br/>
less than 300 feet. Its frame work or<br/>
skeleton was made of teak wood, and<br/>
so shaped as to describe peaks, vallies,<br/>
clefts, caves etc. This frame work was<br/>
all covered with bamboo wattling<br/>
made to conform quite accurately to<br/>
all the varieties of form in the mount.<br/>
And over all this wattling was laid<br/>
paper having a metallic appearance.<br/>
Consequently some parts of the mount<br/>
seemed to be composed chiefly of rusty<br/>
iron, some of copper, some of brass,<br/>
some of tin, some of silver, and some<br/>
of gold.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The largest cavity in the side of the<br/>
mount appeared to be lined with sil-<br/>
vered paper. In that place was an<br/>
artificial pool of clear water full of<br/>
imitation fish, turtles, prawns, crabs<br/>
and a crocodile. In it had been placed<br/>
two large flowers of the Victoria Regia.<br/>
Adjacent to it was another pond where<br/>
poppet figures were playing in the<br/>
water, diving for aquatic animals. On<br/>
a shelf of the rock at the backside of<br/>
the cavity, stood the figures of four<br/>
animals designed as emblems of pros-<br/>
perity and fruitfulness. They were<br/>
the lion, the elephant, the ox, and<br/>
the horse. They stood with their<br/>
heads extended a little over the brim<br/>
of the larger pool, prepared to sprinkle<br/>
pure water from their mouths upon<br/>
the head of the Chow-fah at the pro-<br/>
per time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the top of the mount there was<br/>
a very tasty and apparently richly<br/>
gilded temple with a spire extending<br/>
from the center of its roof, perhaps<br/>
20 feet. On the same plane round<br/>
about the most sacred place, were<br/>
several other very neat buildings, re-<br/>
presenting, as we supposed, the various<br/>
accompaniments of a Brahmin temple.<br/>
On the East side of the mount near its<br/>
top was displayed a circular mirror<br/>
with a diameter of two feet, on the face<br/>
of which was pictured the royal coat<br/>
of arms. And there was connected<br/>
with it a silvered wheel with radiating<br/>
arms revolving on its axes. All this<br/>
was intended to represent the sun.<br/>
There was also on the west side a<br/>
similar representation as an emblem<br/>
of the moon. Two flights of steps led<br/>
up to the mountain temple—the one<br/>
on the east, the other on the West side,<br/>
each having a neat bamboo railing.<br/>
The one designed for His Majesty to<br/>
handle, was wound all the way with<br/>
white muslin, and the steps were<br/>
carpeted with a neat grass matting.<br/>
There was a tasty fence which formed<br/>
a square around the foot of the mount,<br/>
leaving sufficient space within it and<br/>
the mount for a procession to circum-<br/>
ambulate it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been thus particular in<br/>
describing the mount because it was<br/>
the central point for almost all the<br/>
ceremonies of the occasion. In the<br/>
temple on its top was supposed to<br/>
dwell Pra In, the god of the Brahmins,<br/>
and whom many of the Siamese later<br/>
ly as disposed to denominate the<br/>
maker of the worlds. And there in<br/>
that cave or cleft of the rock which we<br/>
have so minutely pointed out, the<br/>
Young Prince was sprinkled with the<br/>
pure water of the sacred mount and<br/>
with a great variety of specially con-<br/>
secrated liquids by which both his in-<br/>
ner and outer man was to be streng-<br/>
thened for the stern realities of man-<br/>
hood. Our time and space will not<br/>
allow of our writing of the hundredth<br/>
part of what engaged our curiosity on<br/>
the morning of the 4th inst., and it<br/>
would be quite preposterous for us to<br/>
think of picturing the scene so that a<br/>
long description of it would be read<br/>
without weariness by our friends a-<br/>
broad. Even an Eng. Russel in his best<br/>
moods, we fancy, would almost shrink<br/>
from the task. We shall venture to<br/>
touch only on a few more salient points<br/>
of the scene.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was about 10 o'clock A.M. when<br/>
the royal trumpet sounded, giving a<br/>
certain signal that the hair cutting<br/>
proper was over, and that the royal<br/>
sire and son, the lions of the day, were<br/>
about to return from the royal barber<br/>
shop in the Prämáhapräsät. Present-<br/>
ly they made their appearance by the<br/>
way of a beautiful Sala on the wall<br/>
opening into the palace court where all<br/>
the foreigners were in eager waiting.<br/>
The golden sadan designed for the<br/>
king was first carried alongside of the<br/>
sala, and His Majesty walked into it.<br/>
He wore a small brimmed black hat<br/>
with a round top decked with precious<br/>
stones, and a single white plume added<br/>
much to its gracefulness. He was richly<br/>
and fully attired, though not in full<br/>
state. A golden umbrella 18 feet in<br/>
circumference was held over him. As<br/>
the king moved off in his sadan borne<br/>
by eight men, there was another golden<br/>
sadan brought up to the door of the sala<br/>
and received Prince Chowfa. He also<br/>
wore a hat like that of his royal sire<br/>
with a gray plume, and seemed to be<br/>
clothed in much the same material as<br/>
his father. Though the distance from<br/>
the sala to the place of bathing to<br/>
which they were then going was not<br/>
more than 28 rods, a little royal pro-<br/>
cession was formed for it. Arriving at<br/>
the place, they both alighted and walk-<br/>
ed into the cave. The prince was<br/>
seated on a rock, or what purported<br/>
to be a rock, in the pool. No part of<br/>
his apparel was removed from him ex-<br/>
cepting his hat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king, laying off only his cap,<br/>
addressed himself most actively to ar-<br/>
ranging all things, so that no part of<br/>
the blessing craved should be marred<br/>
by the least disorder. When all was<br/>
ready the lion, elephant, ox and horse<br/>
vied with each other in giving the<br/>
Prince a shower bath from their<br/>
mouths. This was continued at least<br/>
ten minutes, when the lad became chill-<br/>
ed so that his teeth almost chattered.<br/>
He was then removed to another seat,<br/>
within the pool where he sat another<br/>
10 minutes to be suffused with sundry<br/>
consecrated waters, poured upon his<br/>
head from Brahmin shells and goblets,<br/>
first by the royal sire, then by royal<br/>
uncles, and then by the two Prime min-<br/>
isters for the Southern and Northern<br/>
divisions of the kingdom. We could<br/>
not avoid feeling some anxiety for the<br/>
Prince, so severely chilled did he seem<br/>
to be. He was led into a richly drap-<br/>
ed cloister 8 or 10 feet from the bath,<br/>
where he was assisted in changing his<br/>
wet dress for a dry suit. Meanwhile<br/>
His Majesty, putting on his hat, and<br/>
taking his cane in hand, walked up to<br/>
the top of the mount, and closeted<br/>
himself for a few minutes in the tem-<br/>
ple there. In 15 or 20 minutes we<br/>
saw the Prince being escorted up the<br/>
mount by the two Prime ministers.<br/>
Presently the king made his appearance<br/>
at the door of the temple in his most<br/>
complete kingly dress wearing a gold<br/>
crown. He sat in the door four or five<br/>
minutes as if he expected to be pho-<br/>
tographed. Mr. Thompson the pho-<br/>
tographer was present and had taken<br/>
His Majesty once or twice that day;<br/>
but by some mistake did not attempt<br/>
it then.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As for the Prince, it was supposed<br/>
that Pra In arrayed him in new hab-<br/>
iliments in his own temple on the<br/>
mount, and then imparted to him his<br/>
blessing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole time spent in the mount<br/>
was probably not less than half an<br/>
hour. After which the king disap-<br/>
peared from the scene; but the Prince<br/>
was escorted down the mount and was<br/>
carried in great state three times a-<br/>
round its base within the enclosure,<br/>
and then once or twice outside of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were two lines of beautiful<br/>
lads fancifully dressed who surround-<br/>
ed the mount. All of each line<br/>
were in communication with each<br/>
other by means of a purple cord, which<br/>
each held in his hand. Between these<br/>
two lines-being 10 feet apart, the roy-<br/>
al procession passed. We suppose<br/>
they were to keep invisible devils from<br/>
injuring the Prince as he circumam-<br/>
bulated the mount. There were in<br/>
the procession 8 or 10 distinct com-<br/>
panies, some being composed of men,<br/>
some of women and some of boys.<br/>
Each company was in uniform with<br/>
itself, and quite different from all the<br/>
others. They were all arrayed in their<br/>
richest and gayest costume, and made<br/>
a very unique and we may say, beauti-<br/>
ful appearance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the procession wheeled, with<br/>
the view to return by the way it came<br/>
in the morning, it was joined by sev-<br/>
eral motley companies of what we may<br/>
term Old Siam leading two or three<br/>
spans of fith ponies most fancifully<br/>
caparisoned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was the winding up of the<br/>
morning services, and it was then<br/>
about midday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At 3 O'clock P. M. the evening cer-<br/>
emonies commenced, and bountiful<br/>
tables were provided for all Europeans<br/>
and Americans.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A translation from the
Siamese.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Dictated by the King.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply to an article we publish-<br/>
ed in the Siamese "Recorder" of the<br/>
18th ult.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That which you have published<br/>
about the Bible being the source of<br/>
great light, producing illustrious wis-<br/>
dom and knowledge, sounds strangely<br/>
to the ear. Are they words written<br/>
in earnest or in sport? Are they for<br/>
adults or are they designed only for<br/>
children to hear?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now whenever a person desires to<br/>
learn about the physical world, how the<br/>
heavens and the earth were established<br/>
or constituted, and believes your words<br/>
that the Bible is the best of all books,<br/>
let him go to the Bible and open the<br/>
book at the beginning—-the first page<br/>
of the book of Genesis. He will read<br/>
concerning the creation of the world<br/>
that God made the world in six days<br/>
—-that He made the darkness and made<br/>
the light dividing the one from the<br/>
other, and called the light day and the<br/>
darkness night. After this He made<br/>
the earth and the trees and the grass;<br/>
and that when He was about to finish<br/>
the work of creation, He made the sun<br/>
and moon and stars as things with<br/>
which to garnish the heavens and serve<br/>
the earth. Now such being the record<br/>
of creation, how are we to learn whe-<br/>
ther the sun, which was made subse-<br/>
quently to the light and the earth is a<br/>
great water jar (or perhaps a great<br/>
orb), or that the earth which was made<br/>
some days before is but a green bean<br/>
or the moon that was made simultan-<br/>
eously with the sun is but a [?]eelood,<br/>
or that the many ten thousands and<br/>
the many hundred thousands, and the<br/>
many millions and the many tens of<br/>
millions of smaller jars near the close<br/>
of the work of creation are truly stars<br/>
in the heavens?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again when one desires to know<br/>
the causes of the rainbow, and goes to<br/>
the Bible and reads about it in the<br/>
story of the flood, (what does he there<br/>
learn?) God spake concerning the use<br/>
of the bow and arrow, dwelling on the<br/>
theme for two full pages of the book<br/>
of Genesis. But when we read about<br/>
the rainbow how are we to learn from<br/>
the record the truth about what pro-<br/>
duces it? These remarks are only<br/>
given as specimens (of the darkness of<br/>
the Bible) at the beginning of the<br/>
book.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, some persons criticize the<br/>
Bible by saying, that when God show-<br/>
ed favor to Noah and his family, and<br/>
gave him to make an Ark to escape<br/>
destruction by the flood, if He had<br/>
then but favored him with the know-<br/>
ledge of making a steam boat, and the<br/>
use of a rudder to ships, and the science<br/>
of calculating the longitude and lati-<br/>
tude of places, it would have been of<br/>
great service to him. He could then<br/>
have sailed his vessel by steam hither<br/>
and thither, and would have known<br/>
certainly where he was (on the waste<br/>
of water) and whether or not the wa-<br/>
ters had subsided; and would not have<br/>
been under the necessity of sending<br/>
out ravens and doves as it is said in<br/>
the Bible he did. Was he not at that<br/>
time very ignorant?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are others who say that per-<br/>
sons having a firm faith and a pure<br/>
heart in the religion of Christ, believe<br/>
that He showed extraordinary favor<br/>
unto great multitudes, healing paralytics<br/>
without number, and cured untold<br/>
numbers of persons that were blind,<br/>
and many leprous persons, and even<br/>
some who were dead he raised to life.<br/>
An account of these miracles is given<br/>
in the after part of the Bible, in many<br/>
places. Now they who believe firmly<br/>
in the religion of Christ are such as<br/>
devote their persons and their lives to<br/>
that religion. In the present age some<br/>
of them are suffering from leprosy,<br/>
some from hemiplegia, and general<br/>
palsy. They do not desire to suffer, nor<br/>
to have their friends suffer and die.<br/>
They are very sorry for their sick and<br/>
dying friends. This is very manifest.<br/>
There is no disputing or denying the<br/>
fact. It is true they say "the will of<br/>
the Lord be done." ' As to this we will<br/>
say nothing. But there are others who<br/>
have been newly initiated into the<br/>
faith of Christ, who if their teachers<br/>
and guides could but show miraculous<br/>
power in healing leprosy and paralysis<br/>
and in delivering from death—-only<br/>
these two or three classes of sorrow<br/>
and distress, would not the whole world<br/>
by this time have entered the christian<br/>
religion? But such power and such<br/>
results have not been seen. (Had such<br/>
miraculous power been given) honest<br/>
men who have not trusted in christian-<br/>
ity would no longer have doubts as<br/>
to what you say of the excellency of<br/>
the Bible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The words (translated) trusted as<br/>
above are to be understood in various<br/>
senses. Even the Kings of Siam have<br/>
occasion to use the term. Not to speak of<br/>
the kings of other nations, the kings<br/>
of Siam themselves from time imme-<br/>
morial have sought to aid themselves by<br/>
a certain kind of trust in three systems<br/>
of religion viz-—the Buddhist, the<br/>
Brahmin and the Kaak Chow sen, a<br/>
sect of the Mohamodans. The bees-<br/>
wax which the Kaak Chow sen, use<br/>
for their wax candles in worship is<br/>
almost all a donation from the kings of<br/>
Siam. Besides this they give them<br/>
annually much in aid of their sacred<br/>
feasts. But to the Brahmin religion the<br/>
kings of Siam give annually many cas-<br/>
ties of silver. They thus make don-<br/>
ations to the Kaak Chow sens and<br/>
Brahmins trusting or believing that<br/>
such works will in someway revert in<br/>
blessings upon themselves and their<br/>
peoples. Hence they never grudge what<br/>
they thus give abundantly every year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, The kings of Siam praise<br/>
the Buddhist religion, saying that<br/>
there is no other religion that excels<br/>
it. This every king of Siam has done<br/>
until the present time. Now it must<br/>
be confessed that this looks as if they<br/>
had all given their hearts to the priests<br/>
who are the great lords of the religion<br/>
in Siam. But the truth is, the priests<br/>
who are the teachers and leaders of<br/>
the Buddhist religion are as yet very<br/>
ignorant, not knowing geography or<br/>
astronomy, and still persist in holding<br/>
the notions that the Eclipses are caused<br/>
by the jealousy of the great Yak<br/>
who comes to bite and swallow up the<br/>
sun and moon—that the earth and the<br/>
heavens are of equal size, and that the<br/>
sun and moon in size differ but little,<br/>
and other equally ignorant notions do<br/>
they hold. Consequently all the former<br/>
kings of Siam have held to the same<br/>
views.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now whether His Majesty the pre-<br/>
sent king, holds to the the same notions<br/>
or not it is not known (or it is not<br/>
divulged.) But we see that he can ac-<br/>
curately enunciate the eclipses of the sun<br/>
and moon, and he has said that the<br/>
Yak—-Rahoo does nothing to the sun<br/>
or moon; but that the moon is eclipsed<br/>
by means of the earth coming between<br/>
the sun and moon at thet time of her<br/>
full, and that the sun is eclipsed by the<br/>
moon coming between him and the<br/>
earth at the time of new moon, and<br/>
consequently the eclipses are not al-<br/>
ways alike, sometimes being visible in<br/>
Northern latitudes and not seen in the<br/>
Southern.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now although His Majesty the king<br/>
can predict eclipses as stated above, he<br/>
still adheres to the Buddhist religion,<br/>
and declares that it is better than all<br/>
others, and hence he is strict in the<br/>
observance of all the rites and cere-<br/>
monies of it. He sees clearly that it<br/>
is because that he thus holds to it, that<br/>
he has become so much enlightened.<br/>
Now while we have such an illustrious<br/>
example of the benefits of Buddhism<br/>
why mention the name of Queen Victo-<br/>
ria which you reiterate time without end,<br/>
thinking that you will constrain men<br/>
to believe (in the christian religion) be-<br/>
cause of the influence of such a name?<br/>
It is the custom of the people of all<br/>
nations to follow very nearly the same<br/>
religion that their chief rulers do.<br/>
This we understand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The youngest sister of His Excel-<br/>
lency the Prime Minister, a maiden<br/>
lady, aged 47 years, died on the 16th<br/>
inst. of typhoid fever. She had been<br/>
sick 32 days, but in the meantime had<br/>
become decidedly convalescent, when,<br/>
by the use of some improper food, she<br/>
suffered the fatal relapse.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Local Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Minister<br/>
has now remaining one own brother<br/>
and two full sisters. The brother is<br/>
Phya Montree Sooriwong, who was<br/>
the chief ambassador to Paris a few<br/>
years since, aged about 46 years. The<br/>
two sisters are maiden ladies, aged<br/>
respectively 47 and 51 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Steamer Siam" arrived on the<br/>
17th inst. being 140 days from Liver-<br/>
pool, having called at Anger—Singa-<br/>
pore and other places. She was built<br/>
by George Forester, Liverpool, by order<br/>
of His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
hom. Her tonnage is 326, and her<br/>
horse power 60. She was ordered for<br/>
Phya Toongsa Pookit governor of<br/>
Quedah, and is to ply as a merchant-<br/>
man between Singapore, Quedah,<br/>
Maulmain, and Rangoon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The body of His Majesty the late<br/>
2nd king of Siam, has been placed in a<br/>
copper urn, according to custom in a sit-<br/>
ting posture, so arranged as to have with-<br/>
drawn daily by a stop-cock the fluid parts<br/>
of it until it shall become perfectly dry.<br/>
It will probably remain in this state<br/>
more than twelve months awaiting due<br/>
preparations for its cremation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The causes of the present high pri-<br/>
ces of Rice now ruling in the city are<br/>
unquestionably the great amount of<br/>
shipping now in Port, waiting to<br/>
load with this article for China, and<br/>
the fact that the new crop coming to<br/>
maturity fully a month later in the<br/>
season than usual, has not yet been<br/>
prepared for market. Indeed much of<br/>
the rice in the Province of Ayuthia is<br/>
still unreaped, waiting for the fields to<br/>
become sufficiently dry for harvesting.<br/>
We were informed by one of the high-<br/>
est in authority, that the rice in that<br/>
section will now be quickly gathered,<br/>
and that in the month of February<br/>
the grain will be in market in the<br/>
greatest abundance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been credibly informed<br/>
that His Excellency the Prime Minister<br/>
has put his powerful hand to the work<br/>
of, building a Sanatorium at Anghin,<br/>
and that the work is now well under way,<br/>
and will be completed probably in the<br/>
course of the current year. His Excel-<br/>
lency feels stimulated to press forward<br/>
in this good work by the hope that a<br/>
place of resort for European and Amer-<br/>
ican invalid residents will be of great<br/>
public utility.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siamese Slavery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—I am a kind of benefactor of that part of the<br/>
race which belongs to this kingdom, and as such, my services<br/>
are frequently called upon. Some times perhaps I transcend my<br/>
calling, but I trust I may occasionally be allowed the privilege of<br/>
doing so, with the hope of accomplishing some good. Some port-<br/>
ion of the race here are occasionally oppressed by their immedi-<br/>
ate superiors, and if I can in any way alleviate their distresses,<br/>
without too much interfering in those things which don’t belong<br/>
to me, I shall consider it my duty to do so. I shall relate a couple<br/>
of instances in which my services have been called upon, thinking<br/>
they may give some idea of the customs of this people. One mor-<br/>
ning an old woman living on my premises came, in apparent dis-<br/>
tress, saying, that two nieces of her’s were slaves by debt to a cer-<br/>
tain nobleman of considerable rank, and governor of one of the<br/>
principal provinces in the kingdom. The debt of both amounted<br/>
to about one hundred and thirty ticals. One of the women had a<br/>
husband, but the other had not, and as the master wished to use<br/>
her for rather dishonorable purposes they had both concluded to<br/>
get the money, and purchase their freedom. The Siamese custom<br/>
is that a slave by debt, who wants to free himself must bring the<br/>
money, and lay it down before the master, and if he refuses to re-<br/>
ceive it, they must do so three times, and if on the third time<br/>
he still refuses to receive it, the money can be taken to some judge<br/>
of the court, and deposited, and the master must then lose half the<br/>
amount. The old lady said that they had already laid down the<br/>
money three times, and the master would not receive it. If they<br/>
took it to the court, the master being a big man they could not<br/>
hope for justice. She therefore begged that I would take the<br/>
money, and go and offer it to the master and when he saw that a<br/>
foreigner had taken it up he would receive it. Supposing the story<br/>
to be in the main true, I saw nothing amiss in making the effort.<br/>
The first day I went, the master was not at home, but when I had<br/>
stated my errand one of his wives came out, and stated that he<br/>
had not yet returned from the province, but would return on such<br/>
a day, and told me to come, or send up then, and the money would<br/>
be received. When the day came, I sent up my teacher, but he<br/>
was told to come back another day ! He went back another day<br/>
with the same effect. The third day he went again, but returned as<br/>
he went. I therefore concluded to go again myself, and according-<br/>
ly went and took my seat in the reception room as I had done<br/>
before and announced my arrival. After waiting some time a little<br/>
Nai (master) came, and asked my business as if he did not know<br/>
all about it. I told him it did not amount to much, as I only want-<br/>
ed to pay the money for the freedom of a couple of slaves. He<br/>
said the master was then eating his breakfast and would be out<br/>
in a short time. I waited an hour, which I supposed sufficient<br/>
time for any man to eat. I then began to be a little restless. Short-<br/>
ly afterwards the women of the establishment came out dressed<br/>
up, going out on a pleasure ride, and among them the one who<br/>
had talked rather friendly with me on the previous day, but now<br/>
she passed me by with apparent contempt. After waiting some<br/>
considerable time afterwards, I saw there was something up. The<br/>
servants were squatting around and whispering and laughing<br/>
among themselves, and occasionally would cast a glance at me. I<br/>
told a little Nai who seemed to be “under authority” that I was<br/>
in a great hurry, and his master would confer a great favor by<br/>
appearing as soon as possible: but he did not dare deliver the mes-<br/>
sage. Considering it useless to wait any longer, and not wishing<br/>
to be treated wholly with contempt, I told the Nai in a tone suf-<br/>
ficiently loud to be heard all over the establishment, that I would<br/>
take the money to the court of Mom Rajoday; (The International<br/>
Judge) and when the master called on it he could receive what<br/>
would be coming to him, after the expenses of the court were<br/>
deducted. Having made this deliverance, I left, but had gone<br/>
only a few steps, when the man’s son came running after me, and<br/>
said his father had a very sore leg and could not be seen that day.<br/>
I repeated what I had said before and left, with the full intention<br/>
of doing it; and seeing that it should be justly carried through.<br/>
But when I came to consult the parties, their hearts failed them,<br/>
and they said they could not go to law with a big man, and would<br/>
have to abide their present fate. So the matter was dropped.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have already occupied considerable space, so I shall reserve<br/>
the other instance for some other issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_3_2 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r14e">
        <p class="r02"><b>SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r14f">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAMES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r150">
        <p class="r49">Jan. 10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hector</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Harten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r151">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r152">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">New York</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Mc. Naoh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">536</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Trio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Horn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">233</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Trays</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Major</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">424</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Cape St. James</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Dwina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Russ.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gustav</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Kier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">240</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">434</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Tyelong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Demisky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">440</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hasty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Lisuer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">171</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Beunima</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Ouoca</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Terry</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Amer.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Patriot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Stegmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">W. Curdell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Sempte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">307</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Bragg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">326</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Liverpool</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Tye Watt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Creighton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Armorson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">309</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r159">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb4">
        <p class="r01">Kargill</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r49">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15a">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15b">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r160">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r161">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="r162">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAMES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r163">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r164">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FOR</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r150">
        <p class="r49">Jan. 10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Welcotta</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Goodman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">399</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r151">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r152">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Kamerada</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Drewes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Heng Hoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Creole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">334</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Lorensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">304</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">A. de Machens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Demenien</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">284</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">F. Palmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Lamb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">233</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Amer.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Lye-co-Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Crowninshield</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r153">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Gumbulo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r154">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r155">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r156">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r157">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r158">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r165">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Ouoca</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01">Terry</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r166">
        <p class="r01">Amer.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r167">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Discoveries at Pompeii.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The story of Pompeii reads like an Eastern fable—-a city buried<br/>
in a moment, and unearthed only after a sleep of centuries. A<br/>
French writer says;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The excavations at Pompeii are going on with an activity<br/>
stimulated by the important discoveries made at almost every step,<br/>
and the quantities of gold and silver found, which more than suffice<br/>
to cover the cost of the works. Near the temple of Juno, of<br/>
which an account was recently given, has just been brought to<br/>
light a house, no doubt belonging to some millionaire at the time,<br/>
for the furniture is of ivory bronze and marble. The couches of<br/>
the triclinium, or dining room, are especially of extreme richness.<br/>
The flooring consists of an immense mosaic, well preserved in<br/>
parts, and of which the centre represents a table laid out for a<br/>
grand dinner. In the middle, on a large dish, may be seen a<br/>
splendid peacock, with its tail spread out, and placed back to back<br/>
with another bird also of elegant plumage. Around them are<br/>
arranged lobsters, one of which holds a blue egg in its claws, a<br/>
second an oyster, which appears to be fricasseed as it is open<br/>
and covered with herbs, a third, a rat farci, and a fourth a small<br/>
vase filled with fried grasshoppers—Next comes a circle of dishes<br/>
of fishes, interspersed with others of partridges, hares, and squirrels,<br/>
which all have their heads placed between their fore feet. Then<br/>
comes a row of sausages of all forms, supported by one of eggs,<br/>
oysters and olives, which in its turn is surrounded by a double<br/>
circle of peaches, cherries, melons, and other fruits and vegetables.<br/>
The walls of the triclinium are covered with fresco paintings of<br/>
birds, fruit, flowers, game, and fish of all kinds, the whole inter-<br/>
spersed with drawings which lend a charm to the whole not easy<br/>
to describe. On a table of rare wood-carving and inlaid with<br/>
gold, marble, agate, and lapis lazuli, were found amphora still<br/>
containing wine, and some goblets of onyx.—Lorain county News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_3_5 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. JAN 16TH, 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r12a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r115">
        <p class="r02"><b>VESSEL'S NAMES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r12b">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12c">
        <p class="r02"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>DESTINATION</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r01">Adelheid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">235</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">J. Ehloe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10d">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Adriana Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">196</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Nolles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Anna Marie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Danish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Jurgenesen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Ann Lucy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">309</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Amorsson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">466</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Carl Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Nussbaum</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Carolina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Paulson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah. Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Capt Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Cyane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">225</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Dwina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Russian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Fredric VII</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Hoyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Galatia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Gerritz</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Gazell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">467</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Groos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Gustau</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">240</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Kier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Hasty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">171</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Linauer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Hector</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">J.F. Harten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Jasmin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ortize</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Sept.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Katioka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Kusrorie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Maggie Lauder</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">. .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">131</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Marianna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">192</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">W. Ugler</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">New York</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">536</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Macnach</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">C. Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">391</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ahlmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickepack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Patriot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Steg-mann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Satellite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">476</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">D. Evens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Solo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">965</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Erekin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Beunima</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Trio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Horn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Cape St. James</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Traya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">424</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Major</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">W. Curdell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">267</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Sempte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r02">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">434</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Yuthis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">201</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Davanant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01">Zanzibar</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re1">
        <p class="r02">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rde">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re1">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">242</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Maack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r129">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_3_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r13a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Siamese Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13b">
        <p class="r02"><b>VESSEL'S NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r02"><b>ARRIVED</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r02"><b>RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r02"><b>CONSIGNEES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>DESTINATION</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13c">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13d">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">333</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Bimroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb9">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Ayudian Power</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">640</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Gottlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Leiza</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Keensoos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Cruiser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Towing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Naxstroph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Gollah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">De Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Soan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Haberkost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Hera</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barkintine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">430</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Buckholdt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chow Kwang Siew</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Jack Waters</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">. . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Phya Burut</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Ty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Oct.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">317</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Kim Eng Hap</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">166</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Moonlight</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">644</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jorgensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sua Keen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Sep.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">133</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Wolff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Penguin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">197</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Stolze</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">P. J. K.efoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Queen of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">433</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Crook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Railway</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">219</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Honhow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Seaforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">311</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Nowlton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">382</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Thomsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Pho Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">326</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Bragg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Liverpool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Tenti</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hoy how</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">St. Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Kross</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Tim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Tun Fall Him</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Tys Watt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Crieghton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Tylong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">440</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Demaky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Pulaski</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13e">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Dec.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13f">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">337</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r140">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r141">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">. . . . .</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r142">
        <p class="r01">Yun Chai Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r01">Nov.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r143">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re1">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01">Richten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbc">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN ECCENTRIC MARRIAGE CONTRACT.<br/>
-—An extraordinary case was brought,<br/>
a few days back, under the considera-<br/>
tion of the Paris Court of First Ins-<br/>
tance, presided over by M. Benoit<br/>
Champy. A Count and Countess,<br/>
whose names are not given by the legal<br/>
journals which report the case, refused<br/>
their consent to the marriage of their<br/>
daughter Helen with the man of her<br/>
heart. She thereupon retired to a<br/>
convent, from which she addressed to<br/>
her parents those actes respectueux,<br/>
which by the French code enable per-<br/>
sons of full age to marry without the<br/>
consent of father and mother, which<br/>
is `prima facie` to be [?]ecessary. There-<br/>
upon the parents instituted a suit to<br/>
stop the marriage, on the ground that<br/>
their daughter was insane, and the<br/>
principal evidence produced in support<br/>
of the allegation was that she had<br/>
signed a contract of marriage in the<br/>
following form.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Art. 1. Loving each other and<br/>
knowing each other well enough to be<br/>
certain that one cannot be happy with-<br/>
out the other, we join ourselves toge-<br/>
ther to live for ever hereafter as good<br/>
married people. She will be I and I shall<br/>
be she, he be I and I shall be he. Art. <br/>
2. Charles: I promise Helen to de-<br/>
vote all my mind, all my strength, and<br/>
my whole being to the purpose of<br/>
maintaining her and the children that<br/>
she may give me honestly and decent-<br/>
ly. Art. 3 Helen: I promise Char-<br/>
les to second him in keeping our<br/>
household from want and difficulty;<br/>
with that view I shall make economi-<br/>
cal habits a duty. Art. 4. Charles:<br/>
I admit that I am sometimes hasty<br/>
and violent, and I hope to be excused<br/>
for sudden bursts of anger. Helen:<br/>
It will perhaps be hard to endure,<br/>
but the condition is acceded to. Art. <br/>
5. Helen: I must also be pardoned<br/>
something. My temper is a little un-<br/>
even, and I am greatly disposed to be<br/>
jealous, Charles: I will not mind cap-<br/>
rices if they are not too frequent. As<br/>
to the other fault, am disposed to re-<br/>
joice at it rather than otherwise for a<br/>
jealous person is not likely to give<br/>
cause for jealousy. Art. 6. Charles<br/>
and Helen. We are persuaded that<br/>
between lovers disputes and coolness<br/>
almost always arise from petty causes.<br/>
On this account we mutually promise<br/>
never to follow our own desires in<br/>
things of small importance, but always<br/>
to give way to each other. Helen: In<br/>
important matters it will be right that<br/>
Charles should decide, for he has more<br/>
knowledge and judgment than I. Char-<br/>
les: Helen is too modest. I shall ne-<br/>
ver decide anything without consulting<br/>
her, and either converting her to my<br/>
views or adopting hers if I think them<br/>
best. Art. 7. As a consequence of<br/>
the last preceding article, each of us<br/>
shall always be dressed according to<br/>
the taste of the other. Art. 8. The<br/>
words "I will", "I expect", "I re-<br/>
quire", and other similar expressions,<br/>
are absolutely erased from our diction-<br/>
ary. Art. 9. Charles will honour his wife<br/>
that she may be honoured by others.<br/>
He will always exhibit towards her es-<br/>
teem and confidence, and will be espe-<br/>
cially careful never in her presence to<br/>
allow any advantage over her to any<br/>
other woman upon any point whatso-<br/>
ever. Art. 10. We shall ever bear in<br/>
mind that want of cleanliness and at-<br/>
tention to personal appearance must<br/>
necessarily produce repugnance and<br/>
disgust. Neatness is to the body what<br/>
amiability is to the soul. It is that<br/>
which pleases. Art. 11. Helen: The<br/>
majority of women nurse their own<br/>
children. I hope Charles will approve<br/>
of my performing my duties as a mo-<br/>
ther. Charles: I approve, subject to<br/>
the doctor's advice. Art. 12. Charles:<br/>
Helen will take great care not to spoil<br/>
our children's intellects in their early<br/>
years. She must not talk or suffer<br/>
others to talk to them any of that<br/>
nonsense which gives false ideas and<br/>
dangerous impressions throughout life.<br/>
Helen: I will pay great attention to<br/>
this point. Art. 13. Although our<br/>
mutual tenderness is a guarantee that<br/>
we shall never fail in the engagements<br/>
hereinbefore set forth, each of us will<br/>
keep a copy of these presents, and in<br/>
case of the breach of any article shall<br/>
be entitled to lay it before the other<br/>
party to remind him or her of cove-<br/>
nants entered into. Art. 14. Inasmuch<br/>
as neither will have anything which<br/>
does not belong to the other, there is<br/>
no occasion to take any account of the<br/>
contribution of each to the common<br/>
stock. Affection and courage, our only<br/>
fortune, cannot be counted, and each<br/>
of us will endeavour to bring as much<br/>
as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Court held that this eccentric<br/>
contract afforded no evidence of inna-<br/>
nity, for which imputation there was,<br/>
moreover, no pretence. Judgment<br/>
was accordingly giveli against the pa-<br/>
rents, and the Mayor was ordered to<br/>
proceed at once to perform the mar-<br/>
riage ceremony:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. ST. Crs<br/>
JULIEN in our firm ceased from this<br/>
date, and Mr. J. M. ALLOIN will sign<br/>
by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RHMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam Nov. 1st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he has recently pur-<br/>
chased all the presses and type, together<br/>
with all the typecasting and book-bind-<br/>
ing apparatus formerly belonging to<br/>
the Am. Baptist Mission in this city;<br/>
and having thus reinforced his original<br/>
Printing establishment with 'a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to per-<br/>
form a much greater amount of print-<br/>
ing for the Mission and for this business<br/>
community, and to fulfil the desires of<br/>
his patrons with more promptness and<br/>
certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA TRADERS.
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed Agent at Bang-<br/>
kok for the above named Insurance<br/>
Company, is now prepared to issue<br/>
policies on Marine Risks upon the usual<br/>
terms, to an extent not exceeding<br/>
$40,000 on first class sailing vessels,<br/>
and $70,000 on steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the usual Brokerage<br/>
of 10 P cent, a further cash return<br/>
of Five per cent upon premium paid,<br/>
will be made to all Insurers with this<br/>
Company. Payment for losses will be<br/>
made whereever an Agency of the<br/>
Company exists, in one month after<br/>
proof of loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colonial, Sea and Fire
Insurance Company.
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan, 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_23 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Co. Limited.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan. 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_24 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ADVERTISEMENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A JUVENILE English school un-<br/>
der the style of "Prince Supra-<br/>
tith's English school" is just open in<br/>
one of the rooms of the first new brick<br/>
building on the right side of the new<br/>
Road ; outside the Palace walls, and<br/>
at the next bridge but one from the<br/>
Iron draw-bridge—TERMS—from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Sinoon Mai, Wat Koke
Siam, 3rd January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_26 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ré Estate of C. A. Chilcott deceas-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been duly<br/>
appointed administrator of the Estate<br/>
of C. A. Chilcote, late of Bangkok de-<br/>
ceased; all persons having claims upon<br/>
the said estate are hereby requested to<br/>
present the same, with proper vouches,<br/>
without delay. All persons indebted<br/>
to the said estate are called upon to<br/>
make payment of same to<br/>
January 5th 1866. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
W. DEAN
Administrator
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
