---
linkTitle: 'December 20th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 20th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 20th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 73
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, December 20th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 50.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 8TH Nov. (AFTERNOON).—<br/>
Advices from America state that the<br/>
democrats have carried the elections in<br/>
Maryland and Delaware.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Republicans have been success-<br/>
ful in New Jersey, and will probably in<br/>
New York.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Victor Emmanuel has made a public<br/>
entry into Venice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 9TH Nov. (MORNING).—Ra-<br/>
dicals carried all elections except in Ma-<br/>
ryland and Delaware.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Abdication of Maximilian contradict-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Indignation Meetings have been held<br/>
throughout the United States in conse-<br/>
quence of the condemnation of Fenians<br/>
in Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 12TH Nov., (MORNING).—<br/>
General amnesty has been proclaimed<br/>
in favour of the Cretan insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French squadron is preparing for<br/>
Sea to bring back the troops from Rome.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
American debt reduced by twenty mil-<br/>
lion dollars in October.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Sherman has gone to Mexico.<br/>
General Amnesty has been proclaimed<br/>
in favour of "Britain"—Query Cretan<br/>
insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BOMBAY, SATURDAY.—Peninsular and<br/>
Oriental Company have decided to es-<br/>
tablish a weekly line of steamers between<br/>
Bombay and Suez from January next in<br/>
conjunction with the Calcutta mails.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Home News 26th Oct.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Bartle Frere has been appointed<br/>
to a seat at the Indian Council. Mr.<br/>
Seymour Fitzgerald will, probably, be<br/>
appointed Governor of Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The national flag was hoisted in Ve-<br/>
nice on October 19. The utmost en-<br/>
thusiasm prevailed. The result of the<br/>
plebiscite will be proclaimed on the 4th<br/>
November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty of peace between Prussia<br/>
and Saxony was signed at Berlin on the<br/>
21st of October.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plebiscitum in Venetia has re-<br/>
sulted in nearly a unanimous vote.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On October 26, Parliament was form-<br/>
ally prorogued to the 20th of November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague has almost ceased<br/>
in England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The relations between Prussia and the<br/>
Netherlands are stated to be of a friend-<br/>
ly character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is officially announced that the<br/>
French troops will have left Rome on<br/>
Dec. 15.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The municipality of Vienna have re-<br/>
fused to allow the Jesuits leaving Vene-<br/>
tia to reside in their city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A system of extensive robbery of<br/>
goods has been detected on the Great<br/>
Eastern Railway.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera still fluctuates in London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The health of the Emperor of the<br/>
French is improved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is rumoured that negotiations are<br/>
in progress for a union of the Greek and<br/>
Roman Churches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Disraeli is said to be preparing a<br/>
comprehensive Reform Bill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French troops have begun to<br/>
leave Vera Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reform demonstrations continue to be<br/>
held indifferent parts of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A death-blow to the policy of Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson is considered to have been<br/>
dealt on the 9th of Oct., in the result of<br/>
the elections for four States determined<br/>
that day. The republicans carried the<br/>
Pennsylvania elections, though, by a re-<br/>
duced majority; Iowa, Ohio, and Indiana<br/>
have also voted the Republican ticket.<br/>
Riots occurred at Philadelphia between<br/>
the Radicals and Democrats during the<br/>
last canvas, and several persons were<br/>
wounded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Even the President himself seems to<br/>
have relaxed somewhat of the earnestness<br/>
with which he defends "his policy" of instant<br/>
and unconditional Southern restoration,<br/>
and by many indirect ways he has indi-<br/>
cated that in his Message at the opening<br/>
of the Congressional Session in December<br/>
next he will recommend an amendment to<br/>
the Constitution embodying, though in<br/>
less objectionable form, the main features<br/>
of the Radical amendment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pennsylvania elected 24 members, Ohio<br/>
19, Illinois 11. Other States vote during<br/>
the coming month, the result being, we<br/>
are told, certain to be the same. Thus the<br/>
President will meet a Congress in Decem-<br/>
ber in which less than a third of each<br/>
House will belong to his party.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thursday, the 29th of November, has<br/>
been proclaimed a day of thanksgiving by<br/>
President Johnson. The proclamation<br/>
states in its preamble that:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Almighty God, our Heavenly Father,<br/>
has been pleased to vouchsafe to us as a<br/>
people another year of that national life<br/>
which is an indispensable condition of<br/>
peace, security, and progress. That year,<br/>
moreover, has been crowned with many<br/>
peculiar blessings. The civil war that has<br/>
so recently been among us has not been<br/>
anywhere reopened. Foreign intervention<br/>
has ceased to excite alarm or apprehension.<br/>
Intrusive pestilence has been benignly<br/>
mitigated. Domestic tranquillity has im-<br/>
proved; sentiments of conciliation have<br/>
largely prevailed, and affections of loyalty<br/>
and patriotism have been widely renewed.<br/>
Our fields have yielded quite abundantly,<br/>
our mining industry has been richly re-<br/>
warded, and we have been allowed to ex-<br/>
tend our railroad system far into the in-<br/>
terior recesses of the country, while our<br/>
commerce has resumed its customary ac-<br/>
tivity in foreign seas. These great nation-<br/>
al blessings demand a national acknow-<br/>
ledgment.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insurgent Caucasian provinces have<br/>
been disarmed, and the inhabitants of the<br/>
three neighbouring provinces have like-<br/>
wise been prohibited from carrying arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Jews here are threatened with a<br/>
religious propagandism of a terrible kind.<br/>
An association has been formed, the ob-<br/>
ject of which is to force the Jewish popul-<br/>
ation out of a country where they have<br/>
been established for eight centuries, and<br/>
to compel them to emigrate to the Cauca-<br/>
sus or the banks of the Adour. The 'Wil-<br/>
na Journal' has said openly that the coun-<br/>
try must be cleansed of this leprosy, and<br/>
that the Jews must be either converted or<br/>
exterminated. General Kauffmann, the<br/>
governor of the province, has directed the<br/>
municipalities and the head of families to<br/>
subscribe to this journal; he has farther<br/>
ordered schoolmasters to read it to the<br/>
peasantry, in order to prepare their minds<br/>
for the work of extermination. The society<br/>
has amongst its members many public<br/>
functionaries, amongst others the inspec-<br/>
tor of primary education. The Jews are<br/>
anxious to lay their case before the gov-<br/>
ernment of St. Petersburg, which has in<br/>
many ways improved their position, and<br/>
which seems to be entirely ignorant of<br/>
this infamous mode of propagandism. But<br/>
unfortunately the state of siege prevents<br/>
them from doing so.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Coming Autumn.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Alas for the summer ! The grass is still<br/>
verdant on the hills and in the valleys; the<br/>
foliage of the trees is as dense as ever, and<br/>
as green; the flowers are abundant along<br/>
the margin of the river, and in the hedge-<br/>
rows, and deep among the woods; the days,<br/>
too, are as fervid as they were a month ago;<br/>
and yet in every breath of wind and in<br/>
every beam of sunshine there is an autum-<br/>
nal influence. I know not how to describe<br/>
it. Methinks there is a sort of coolness<br/>
amid all the heat, and a mildness in the<br/>
brightness of the sunshine. A breeze can<br/>
not stir, without thrilling me with the<br/>
breath of autumn, and I behold its pensive<br/>
glory in the far, golden gleams among the<br/>
long shadows of the trees. The flowers,<br/>
even the brightest of them,—the golden-<br/>
rod and the gorgeous cardinals,—the most<br/>
glorious flowers of the year,—have thus gen-<br/>
tle sadness amid their pomp. Pensive au-<br/>
tumn is expressed in the glow of every one<br/>
of them. I have felt this influence earlier<br/>
in some years than others. Sometimes au-<br/>
tumn may be perceived even in the [..]ly<br/>
days of July. There is no other feeling<br/>
like that caused by this faint, doubtful, yet<br/>
real perception, or rather prophecy, of the<br/>
year's decay, so deliciously sweet and sad<br/>
at the same time.—-HAWTHORNE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Beautiful Old Age.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
God sometime gives to man a guiltless<br/>
and holy second childhood, in which the<br/>
soul becomes childlike, not childish, and<br/>
the faculties, in full fruit and ripeness, are<br/>
mellow, without decay. This is that thought-<br/>
ful land of Beulah, where they who have<br/>
traveled manfully the Christian way, abide<br/>
awhile to show the world a perfect man-<br/>
hood. Life with its battles and its sorrows,<br/>
lies far beyond them; the soul has thrown<br/>
off its armor, and sits in an evening un-<br/>
dress of calm and holy leisure. Thrice bles-<br/>
sed is the family, the neighborhood that<br/>
numbers among it one of these not yet as-<br/>
cended saints! Gentle are they and toler-<br/>
ant, and apt to play with little children;<br/>
easy to be pleased with pleasure.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
More Men Wanted.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great want of this age is men. Men<br/>
who are not for sale. Men who are honest,<br/>
sound from centre to circumference, true<br/>
to the heart's core. Men who will condemn<br/>
wrong in friend or foe, in themselves as<br/>
well as in others. Men whose consciences<br/>
are steady as the needle to the pole. Men<br/>
who will stand for the right if the heavens<br/>
totter and the earth reels. Men who can<br/>
tell the truth and look the Devil right in<br/>
the eye. Men that neither brag nor run.<br/>
Men that neither swagger nor flinch. Men<br/>
who can have courage without whistling<br/>
for it, and joy without shouting to bring it.<br/>
Men in whom the current of everlasting<br/>
life runs deep and strong. Men<br/>
careful of God's honor and careless of men's<br/>
applause. Men who know their duty and<br/>
do it. Men who know their places and fill<br/>
it. Men who mind their own business. Men<br/>
who will not lie. Men who are not too lazy<br/>
to work, nor too proud to be poor. Men<br/>
who are willing to eat what they have earn-<br/>
ed, and wear that they have paid for. Men<br/>
whose feet are on the everlasting rock. Men<br/>
who are strong with divine strength, wise<br/>
with the wisdom that cometh from about,<br/>
and loving with the love of Christ. Men<br/>
of God.—TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Actor's Advice to a
Clergyman.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Celebrated Garrick, having been<br/>
requested by Dr. Stonehouse to favor him<br/>
with his opinion as to the manner in which<br/>
a sermon ought to be delivered, the Eng-<br/>
lish Roscius sent him the following judic-<br/>
ious answer:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MY DEAR PUPIL.—You know how you<br/>
would feel and speak in a parlor concern-<br/>
ing a friend who was in imminent danger<br/>
of his life, and with what energetic pathos<br/>
of diction and countenance you would en-<br/>
force the observance of that which you real-<br/>
ly thought would be for his preservation.<br/>
You would not think of playing the orator,<br/>
or studying your emphasis, cadence, or ges-<br/>
ture: you would be yourself; and the in-<br/>
teresting nature of your subject, impres-<br/>
sing your heart, would furnish you with<br/>
the most natural tone of voice, the most<br/>
proper language, the most engaging fea-<br/>
ture, and the most suitable and graceful<br/>
gestures. What you would be in the par-<br/>
lor, be in the pulpit; and you will not fail<br/>
to please, to affect, and profit. Adieu, my<br/>
dear friend.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Civil Worth of the Sabbath.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. Toil needs it—-to wipe off the grim<br/>
and sweat of labor, to refresh by change<br/>
of apparel, to restore and invigorate the<br/>
body, exhausted by labor; to cultivate the<br/>
mind by change of current of thought and<br/>
by this to fit laboring man for the renew-<br/>
ing toils of the week.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. Capital needs the Sabbath-—to allevi-<br/>
ate, by intermission, the care of accum-<br/>
ulation; to ease the unbending of the strain-<br/>
ed and exhausted mind; to give a sense<br/>
of the value of nobler objects than silver<br/>
and gold; to keep men, humanity and con-<br/>
ciousness alive; to shield capital from harm<br/>
by securing the power and triumph of law<br/>
law order in society.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. The State needs the Sabbath-—to illu-<br/>
mine the public conscience (that guardian<br/>
of the public safety) to cause men to re-<br/>
cognise the Eternal Lawgiver, as to honor<br/>
the earthly “powers that be;” to secure<br/>
the moral atmosphere in a community<br/>
which is the only support of law.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Novel Mode of Sueing.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Samuel Harris was one of the ear-<br/>
ly Baptist preachers of Virginia whose la-<br/>
bors were remarkably blessed. The pun-<br/>
gent truths he preached were so enforced<br/>
by the tender earnestness of his manner<br/>
that whole congregations were often mel-<br/>
ted to tears. The following good story is told<br/>
of his settling a difficulty with a cross-grain-<br/>
ed man:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man owed him a sum of money of<br/>
which he actually stood in need to defray<br/>
the expenses of his family. He went to<br/>
the man and told him he would be very<br/>
glad if he would discharge the debt he owed<br/>
him. To which the man replied that he<br/>
would not pay him the money. Harries<br/>
said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I want the money to buy wheat for my<br/>
family. You have a good crop by you. I<br/>
had rather have wheat than money.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The man answered, “I have other uses<br/>
for my wheat.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“How, then,” said Mr. Harriss, “do you<br/>
intend to pay me!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I never intend to pay you until you sue<br/>
me,” said the debtor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Harries left him meditating. “Good<br/>
God,” said he to himself, “what must I do?<br/>
Must I leave preaching to attend a lawsuit?<br/>
Perhaps a thousand souls will perish in the<br/>
meantime for the want of hearing Jesus.<br/>
No, I will not. What will you do for your-<br/>
self? I will sue him at the court of Heav-<br/>
en.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having resolved what to do, he turned<br/>
aside into a wood and fell upon his knees,<br/>
and thus began his suit:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, blessed Jesus, thou, Eternal God,<br/>
knowest that I need the money that this<br/>
man owes me to supply the wants of my<br/>
family. Dear Jesus, shall I quit thy cause<br/>
and leave the souls of men to perish? or<br/>
wilt thou, in mercy, open some other way<br/>
of relief?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this prayer he found such tokens of<br/>
divine acceptance that, to use his own<br/>
words, Jesus said unto him, “Harriss, keep<br/>
on preaching, and I will become security<br/>
for the payment.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. H., having the debt thus secured,<br/>
thought it most proper to give the debtor a<br/>
discharge. Accordingly he, shortly after<br/>
passing by to a meeting, carried a receipt<br/>
in full to the man’s house, and gave it to<br/>
his servant, desiring him to give it to his<br/>
master.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On his return by the house after meeting,<br/>
the man hailed him at his gate and said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Mr. H., what did you mean by the re-<br/>
ceipt you sent me this morning?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. H. replied:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I meant just what I wrote.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Well, but I have not paid you,” an-<br/>
swered the debtor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Harries said, “True; and I know, also,<br/>
you said you never would, unless the money<br/>
came at the end of an execution; but sir,<br/>
I sued you in the court of Heaven, and Je-<br/>
sus has agreed to pay me. I have there-<br/>
fore given you a discharge.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This operated so effectually on the man’s<br/>
concsience, that, in a few days, he prepared<br/>
and sent to Mr. H. wheat enough to dis-<br/>
charge the debt.-—PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Wigglers
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Carpenter in his reminiscences<br/>
of Pres. Lincoln tells the following good<br/>
story:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Upon the appearance of what was<br/>
known as the `Wade and Davis man-<br/>
ifesto,' subsequent to his renomination,<br/>
an intimate friend and supporter, who<br/>
was very indignant that such a document<br/>
should have been put forth just before<br/>
the presidential election, took occasion<br/>
to animadvert very severely upon the<br/>
course that prompted it. `It is not<br/>
worth fretting about,' said the president;<br/>
`it reminds me of an old acquaintance,<br/>
who, having a son of a scientific turn,<br/>
bought him a microscope. The boy went<br/>
around experimenting with his glass up-<br/>
on everything that came in his way. One<br/>
day, at the dinner table, his father took<br/>
up a piece of cheese. `Don't eat that,<br/>
father,' said the boy; `it is full of wig-<br/>
glers.' `My son,' replied the old gentle-<br/>
man, taking, at the same time, a huge<br/>
bite, `let 'em wiggle; I can stand it if<br/>
they can.'
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Nearness of Death
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we walk near powerful machi-<br/>
nery, we know that one simple mis-step,<br/>
and those mighty engines will tear us to<br/>
ribbons with their flying wheels, or grind<br/>
us to powder in their ponderous jaws.<br/>
So when we are thundering across the<br/>
land in a railcar, and there is nothing<br/>
but an inch of iron flange to hold us on<br/>
the track. So when we are in a ship, and<br/>
there is nothing but the thickness of a<br/>
plank between us and eternity. We<br/>
imagine, then, that we see how close we<br/>
are to the edge of the precipice.—But<br/>
we do not see it. Whether on the sea or<br/>
on the land, the partition that divides us<br/>
from eternity is something less than an<br/>
oak plank, or half an inch iron flange.<br/>
The machinery of life and death is with-<br/>
in us. The tissues that hold the beating<br/>
powers in their place are often not thick-<br/>
er than a sheet of paper, and if that thin<br/>
partition rupture, it would be the same<br/>
with us as if a cannon-ball struck us.<br/>
Death is inseparably bound up with life<br/>
in the very structure of our bodies.<br/>
Struggle as he would to widen the space,<br/>
no man can, at any time, go farther from<br/>
death than the thickness of a sheet o'<br/>
paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_19 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Little Children.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Children are the poetry of the world—-<br/>
the fresh flowers of our hearts and<br/>
homes-—little conjurors with their “na-<br/>
tural magic,” evoking by their spells<br/>
what delights and enriches all ranks, and<br/>
equalizes the different classes of society.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Often as they bring with them anxieties<br/>
and cares, and live to occasion sorrow<br/>
and grief, we should get on very badly<br/>
without them. Only think-—if there was<br/>
never anything anywhere to be seen but<br/>
grown up men and women, how we should<br/>
long for the sight of a little child. Every<br/>
infant comes into the world like a delega-<br/>
ted prophet, the harbinger and herald of<br/>
good tidings, whose office is to “turn the<br/>
hearts of the fathers to the children,”<br/>
and draw “the disobedient to the just.”<br/>
A child softens and purifies the heart,<br/>
warming and melting it by its gentle<br/>
presence; it enriches the soul by new<br/>
feelings, and awakens within it what is<br/>
favorable to virtue. It is a beam of<br/>
light, a fountain of love, a teacher whose<br/>
lessons few can resist.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_20 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Mistakes About
Each Other.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not one man in ten thousand sees<br/>
those with whom he associates as they<br/>
really are. If the prayer of Burns were<br/>
really granted, and we could all see our-<br/>
selves as others see us, our self-estimates<br/>
would, in all probability, be much more<br/>
erroneous than they are now. The truth<br/>
is, that we regard each other through a<br/>
variety of lenses, not one of which is<br/>
correct. Passion and prejudice, love and<br/>
hate, benevolence and envy, spectacle<br/>
our eyes and utterly prevent us from ob-<br/>
serving accurately. We habitually un-<br/>
dervalue each other, and in estimating<br/>
character the shrewdest of us only now<br/>
and then make due appraisal of the vir-<br/>
tues and defects of even our closest inti-<br/>
mates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not just or fair to look at charac-<br/>
ter from a stand point of one's own se-<br/>
lection. A man's profile may be unpre-<br/>
possessing and yet his full face agree-<br/>
able. We once saw a young man, whose<br/>
timidity was a standing joke with his<br/>
companions, leap into the river and save<br/>
a boy from drowning, while his comrades<br/>
stood panic stricken on the bank. The<br/>
merchant who gives curt answers in the<br/>
counting room, may be a tender hearted<br/>
husband and father, and kind helper of<br/>
the desolate and oppressed. On the other<br/>
hand, your good humored person, who is<br/>
all smiles and sunshine in public, may<br/>
carry something as hard as a nether mill-<br/>
stone in the place where his heart ought<br/>
to be. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such anomalies are common. There<br/>
is this comfort, however, for those whose<br/>
misjudgment of their fellow mortals leans<br/>
to the kindly side—such mistakes go to<br/>
their credit in the great account. He<br/>
who thinks better of his neighbors than<br/>
they deserve, cannot be a bad man, for<br/>
the standard by which his judgment is<br/>
guided is the goodness of his own heart.<br/>
It is only the base who believe all men<br/>
base—or in other words, like themselves.<br/>
Few however, are all evil. Even Nero<br/>
did a good turn to somebody, for when<br/>
Rome was rejoicing over his death, some<br/>
loving hand covered his grave with<br/>
flowers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Public men are seldom or never fairly<br/>
judged—at least while living. However<br/>
pure, they cannot escape calumny. How-<br/>
ever corrupt, they are sure to find eulo-<br/>
gists. History may do them justice; but<br/>
they rarely get it while living, either<br/>
from friend or foe.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_1_21 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
CONDEMN no man for not thinking as<br/>
you think. Let every one enjoy the full<br/>
and free liberty of thinking for himself.<br/>
Let every one use his own judgment,<br/>
since every man must give an account of<br/>
himself to God. Abhor any approach,<br/>
in any kind and degree, to the spirit of<br/>
persecution. If you can not reason or<br/>
persuade a man into the truth, never at-<br/>
tempt to force him into it. If love will<br/>
not compel him, leave him to God, the<br/>
Judge of all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KIND words are looked upon like jew-<br/>
els on the breast, never to be forgotten,<br/>
and perhaps, to cheer by their memory a<br/>
long, sad life; while words of cruelty, or<br/>
carelessness, are like swords in the bo-<br/>
som, wounding, and leaving scars which<br/>
will be borne to the grave by their vic-<br/>
tim. Do you think there is any bruised<br/>
heart which bears the mark of such a<br/>
wound from you? If there is a living<br/>
one which you have wounded, hasten to<br/>
heal it; for life is short—to-morrow may<br/>
be too late.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HUMAN doctrines cannot cure wounds<br/>
in conscience. The remedy is too weak<br/>
for the disease. Conscience, like the vul-<br/>
ture of Prometheus, will still lie gnawing.<br/>
Notwithstanding all that such doctrines<br/>
can do.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
December 20th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The recent out break.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rumor we published in our<br/>
last issue concerning Monsieur Auba-<br/>
ret the French Consul we are sorry to<br/>
say appears on further inquiry to be<br/>
but too true. We learn from many<br/>
witnesses of the most reliable charac-<br/>
ter that on Friday the 14th inst. His<br/>
Majesty the king gave out word that<br/>
he would in the p. m. at such an hour<br/>
meet his court and people on the pa-<br/>
rade ground outside of the eastern<br/>
gate of the Royal palace and proceed<br/>
to a temple near by. M. Lamache who<br/>
has the command of the royal regiment<br/>
hearing of this, called for a special<br/>
drill of his men for the occasion. M.<br/>
Aubaret seems to have been informed<br/>
of the purposes of the king, and con-<br/>
sequently happened to be there in<br/>
good time to have an informal inter-<br/>
view with His Majesty. The royal<br/>
corps of two or three hundred soldiers<br/>
were there in their best uniform and<br/>
finely paraded. M. Aubaret was invi-<br/>
ted by their Captain to wait a little as<br/>
His Majesty would certainly be out in<br/>
a few minutes. And so it was. His<br/>
Majesty, it is said, was surprised to see<br/>
the French Consul there, and said to<br/>
him, why have you come? The latter<br/>
replied that he had no particular bu-<br/>
siness, and had only come on a plea-<br/>
sure stroll. But that after a few pre-<br/>
liminaries he, taking a paper out of<br/>
his pocket, and handing it to His Ma-<br/>
jesty, began to speak disparagingly of<br/>
H. E. the Prime Minister, saying in<br/>
substance, that the French and Siam-<br/>
ese nations could never hope to enjoy<br/>
any peace so long as H. E. was allow-<br/>
ed to hold the place he does, and that<br/>
he must be humbled or the most seri-<br/>
ous consequences would be the result.<br/>
Some say that M. Aubaret even had<br/>
the impudence to propose that he him-<br/>
self be allowed to nominate a succes-<br/>
sor of the Prime Minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would not be understood to af-<br/>
firm that such were the exact words<br/>
reported to us of the affair, but simply<br/>
the spirit of them. Indeed we now<br/>
aim to give as mild a view of it as<br/>
possible consistent with faithfulness<br/>
as public recorders. Many persons<br/>
comprising princes, nobles, lords and<br/>
people have told us in substance not<br/>
only what we have above reported,<br/>
but also that His Majesty felt himself<br/>
highly insulted by that audacious dic-<br/>
tation from the French Consul, and<br/>
bade him depart from him - that the<br/>
latter, then extending his hand to the<br/>
king with the view to give him a par-<br/>
ting blessing, was refused; and then<br/>
turning to His Majesty's children,<br/>
wishing to shake hands with each,<br/>
met with the same rebuff, coupled<br/>
with cutting words of indignation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are moreover credibly inform-<br/>
ed that that interview created a great<br/>
panic, and that the king's attendants<br/>
fearing there might be a development<br/>
on the spot of something far more se-<br/>
rious, manifested it by many unmis-<br/>
takable signs which need not be nam-<br/>
ed. The French Consul it is said then<br/>
went off alone in the direction of the<br/>
palace of the late second king, holding<br/>
his hat in his hand, evidently in deep<br/>
thought, and presently turned about<br/>
and retraced his steps. But ere he<br/>
had come opposite the palace gate His<br/>
Majesty had passed within, and the<br/>
gate was shut, and all his attendants<br/>
had significantly dispersed excepting<br/>
the regiment and their commander.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now, strange to say, M. Aubaret<br/>
has, since that unquestionable pub-<br/>
lic out-break, been making most ex-<br/>
traordinary efforts to frighten the<br/>
Siamese government with the charge<br/>
of having authorized the publication<br/>
of that article on the subject in our<br/>
last issue. He has utterly refused to<br/>
take the government's denial of the<br/>
charge, and has demanded that an<br/>
official inquiry be made of us whether<br/>
the government did or did not furnish<br/>
the information or in some way auth-<br/>
orize its publication. We have conse-<br/>
quently been honored with an official<br/>
letter from the U. S. Consul asking<br/>
but one question and that on that one<br/>
point. Our reply was promptly and<br/>
truthfully in the negative and added<br/>
in substance that while we obtained<br/>
our information wholly from unofficial<br/>
sources, we could have but little doubt<br/>
that it was substantially correct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This letter was received and answer-<br/>
ed on the 20th inst. What has since<br/>
taken place with regard to the matter<br/>
we know not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In view of what M. Aubaret has<br/>
already done we should not be much<br/>
surprised to learn that he will take<br/>
this occasion to "move heaven and<br/>
earth" as it were to make it appear<br/>
that His Majesty has in this affair in-<br/>
sulted the Emperor of the French, and<br/>
that it is a substantial casus belli—-<br/>
that a French army must be ordered<br/>
forthwith to put H. E. the Prime Min-<br/>
ister out of the way and thus remove<br/>
every serious obstacle in the way of<br/>
French domination in Siam. Why<br/>
the demand he made in that interview<br/>
with the king appears to us tantamount<br/>
to that of requiring him to cut off the<br/>
right arm of the government-—to pluck<br/>
out its right eye and stop both its<br/>
ears; And how preposterous the<br/>
thought that such matters shall not be<br/>
published in this city without license<br/>
from the French consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inquiry is of course in every<br/>
man's mouth-—Is it possible that the<br/>
Emperor of the French has in any<br/>
way emboldened his consul to take<br/>
the steps he has? And will he sustain<br/>
him in what he has now done? We<br/>
are not able as yet to bring our minds<br/>
to an affirmative view of these queries.<br/>
We fondly and confidently hope that<br/>
M. Aubaret will soon learn that the<br/>
Emperor and his ministers have quite<br/>
too much sense of propriety and justice<br/>
to allow him to proceed further in<br/>
such outrages.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A glide up the Broadway
of Bangkok.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As you glide up the noble Menam,<br/>
approaching the city, being yet a mile<br/>
below the stone pillar which is the<br/>
southern boundary of the suburbs,<br/>
you will see on your left hand a<br/>
whitish building four stories high, of<br/>
commanding appearance among hum-<br/>
bler godowns and dwellings. This is<br/>
the Am. Steam Rice Mill, the mother<br/>
of all the others in Bangkok. It is<br/>
now, however, loosing its right to the<br/>
distinctive name, inasmuch as but a<br/>
small part of it is owned by Ameri-<br/>
cans, and the larger part by natives.<br/>
It has every appearance of being a<br/>
stirring place. Several ships or ves-<br/>
sels of other rig are usually seen near<br/>
by waiting to be loaded with rice; and<br/>
a multitude of country boats, with<br/>
round covers of bamboo wattling, are<br/>
moored along the shore, waiting their<br/>
turns to discharge paddy in the mill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few rods ashore, on the adjoin-<br/>
ing lot you will observe two large,<br/>
two storied brick houses, plastered<br/>
externally as well as within, having<br/>
hip-roofs covered with red earthen<br/>
tiles, the one standing ten rods from<br/>
the river, the other twenty, looking<br/>
cheeringly by their spacious verandahs<br/>
and inviting you to call in. This is<br/>
the Bangkok station of Am. Presby-<br/>
terian Mission. On the upper and<br/>
outer corner near the bank of the<br/>
river stands a small brick chapel,<br/>
white by the external plastering, with<br/>
green window shutters, and an invit-<br/>
ing porch. A small belfry, and bell<br/>
give it quite a homelike appearance.<br/>
The mission premises have a very<br/>
rural aspect with the tall durian,<br/>
maprang, satawn, bamboo trees, etc.<br/>
on an acre or more of land but little<br/>
cultivated for a front, and a forest of<br/>
fruit trees in the rear. It is a fine<br/>
location for their mission school, which<br/>
has been in successful operation for a<br/>
period of six or eight years. This<br/>
place is a little more than four miles<br/>
below the kings palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the opposite side of the river,<br/>
which is there more than one hund-<br/>
red yards wide and many fathoms<br/>
deep, you will observe a spacious<br/>
brick mansion of two stories, with a<br/>
hip-roof of earthen tiles, plastered<br/>
externally like all brick buildings in<br/>
this country, standing quite alone in<br/>
a forest of trees, most of them fruit-<br/>
bearing and of the richest and un-<br/>
withering foliage. It was built by J.<br/>
H. Chandler Esq. some six years since<br/>
and occupied by him till about nine<br/>
months since, when it was sold to R.<br/>
S. Scott & Co. It has been unoccu-<br/>
pied many months, and consequently<br/>
is now looking quite desolate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Looking up the river on the same<br/>
side about a quarter of a mile you<br/>
will see the Clyde Dock yard of Dan-<br/>
iel Maclean & Co. The buildings<br/>
are all of an humble order, of unpain-<br/>
ted wood, thatched with attap-palm<br/>
leaves and consequently the whole<br/>
establishment is now looking much<br/>
weather-beaten. It is a place usually<br/>
of much business in its line, and many<br/>
new vessels of small tonnage have<br/>
been launched from its front within<br/>
the last six years. Between it and the<br/>
Chandler-Mansion is a small Buddhist<br/>
Temple scarcely to be seen in the<br/>
Jungle of trees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing eight or ten rods above the<br/>
Dockyard, you will come to another<br/>
Steam Rice Mill, having equally a<br/>
business appearance with the one be-<br/>
fore named. The principal building<br/>
is of four stories entirely enclosed and<br/>
covered with zinc sheets or sheet iron<br/>
painted white. It belongs to The<br/>
Bangkok Rice Mill Co. of which the<br/>
Borneo Company and A.M. Odman are<br/>
the resident partners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some twenty or thirty rods still<br/>
further up, on the same side you will<br/>
come to a Steam Saw Mill, erected<br/>
two or three years since by D. Maclean<br/>
Esq. and is owned, at the present time,<br/>
if we mistake not, by himself alone.<br/>
He has made great use of the mill in<br/>
connection with his Dock-yard, and<br/>
it contrasts splendidly with the native<br/>
sawmills where all the work is done<br/>
by hand. It is passing strange that<br/>
native capitalists, seeing its operations<br/>
do not become disgusted with their<br/>
hand-mills, and will still hold on most<br/>
tenaciously to pulling their saws<br/>
through immense teak logs "by the<br/>
sweat of their brows" which is crush-<br/>
ing to the spirit of even a spectator.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Adjoining this Saw mill on the<br/>
north side, is a Buddhist temple,<br/>
rather hidden from the river view by<br/>
trees of many varieties among which<br/>
are several tall spruce and fir trees. The<br/>
establishment evinces that it has had<br/>
much money expended on it, and is still<br/>
well cared for. The river bank in front<br/>
is neatly diked with two or more flights<br/>
of steps passing up into the temple<br/>
court. Next above this is another<br/>
temple of more humble appearance in<br/>
a jungle of trees and but poorly at-<br/>
tended to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gliding up a few rods further you<br/>
will find yourself opposite the Protes-<br/>
tant cemetery on your right hand,<br/>
which is very suitably located in a re-<br/>
tired place, and sparsely studded with<br/>
tall fruit trees. Its front has, till lat-<br/>
terly, been quite neat and tidy, with<br/>
a broad flight of easy steps going up<br/>
into an unassuming sala. But now<br/>
the dike, having been broken down by<br/>
the river cutting away the bank, it<br/>
has, we are sorry to say, a shabby<br/>
look.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The shore on your left hand from the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission to some distance<br/>
above, is chiefly occupied by orchards<br/>
of cocoanut and betel trees, durian<br/>
and tamarind and many other kinds<br/>
of tall fruit trees, thickly set, without<br/>
order, interspersed with bananas etc.<br/>
Here and there you will see a<br/>
farm-house near the river, enclosed<br/>
with teak-wood, usually thatched with<br/>
attap leaves, but rarely covered with<br/>
earthen tiles. As they are never<br/>
painted, they always have a deeply<br/>
weather-beaten appearance. You will<br/>
see three or four small floating houses<br/>
far separated from each other, moored<br/>
a little distance from the river's bank.<br/>
These like pickets are sent out, as it<br/>
were, to feel the way for an unbroken<br/>
phalanx of them to come down erelong<br/>
and occupy that part of the suburbs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gliding up a quarter of a mile fur-<br/>
ther and you will come to another<br/>
Steam Rice Mill, belonging to Mes-<br/>
srs A. Markwald & Co. It figures<br/>
well as such, and is doing nearly if<br/>
not fully as much business as either<br/>
of its three predecessors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Immediately adjoining this on the<br/>
next lot above is the new Steam Rice<br/>
Mill erected by R. S. Scott & Co. but<br/>
sold last week to Phya Buroot a Siam-<br/>
ese nobleman. It is a more tidy and<br/>
snug looking affair than either of the<br/>
others, and is thought to be indeed a<br/>
little improvement in its internal ar-<br/>
rangements. But as it has been only<br/>
recently finished, it does not as yet<br/>
command much business. How it will<br/>
be conducted by the natives we know<br/>
not; but think it not improbable that<br/>
it will develop much Siamese skill<br/>
and power, as this people are quick to<br/>
learn and occasionally good to work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing up some fifteen or twenty<br/>
rods further, you will be opposite the<br/>
establishment of Messrs. Pickenpack<br/>
Thies & Co. on your right hand. It<br/>
consists 1st of a roomy but very plain<br/>
wooden house, unpainted, and with at-<br/>
tap thatching near the river;—2nd A<br/>
spacious brick dwelling, now the Am-<br/>
erican Consulate, a little retired from<br/>
the bank, with a beautiful door yard<br/>
decked with flowering and never with-<br/>
ering shade trees, with a landing neat-<br/>
ly diked; and 3rd—A large brick go-<br/>
down covered with corrugated iron.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Adjoining these on the north is the<br/>
establishment of Borneo Company<br/>
"Limited" consisting mainly of large<br/>
brick godowns with a substantial Of-<br/>
fice of two stories attached to the front<br/>
and of the same, and a spacious wood-<br/>
en dwelling with a hip-roof thatched<br/>
with attap. Their place is also<br/>
thoroughly diked, presenting an even<br/>
bank, and has several flights of steps<br/>
passing up to a charming lawn in front<br/>
of the dwelling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You are now just within the city<br/>
suburbs as the granite pillar forming<br/>
the southern boundary stands on the<br/>
upper corner of the lot of Messrs. Pic-<br/>
kenpack Thies & Co. Its distance<br/>
from the lower Rice Mills is just one<br/>
mile, and about half a mile below the<br/>
British Consulate, situated on the same<br/>
side of the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the other side of the river oppo-<br/>
site to where you have arrived is a very<br/>
neat and unassuming Buddhist temple,<br/>
which as usual for nearly all temples,<br/>
is much hidden by shade trees in front<br/>
with a back ground of a forest fruit<br/>
trees in almost all the wildness of na-<br/>
ture. And all these like a vast majo-<br/>
rity of the trees of this exhuberant<br/>
valley, are ever densely attired with<br/>
the richest foliage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope to conduct you up to the<br/>
Royal palace on another occasion, and<br/>
will now stop in front of the Protes-<br/>
tant Church on the east side of the ri-<br/>
ver, the next lot above the premises of<br/>
Borneo Company "Limited." And<br/>
this by the by is a very suitable place<br/>
for us to stop at, especially on the<br/>
Lord's day. Would that all European<br/>
and American christians, merely nomi-<br/>
nal as well as professing, were of the<br/>
same opinion. The church edifice looks<br/>
charmingly out on the river and seems<br/>
to say "come in hither." "Ho every<br/>
one that thirsteth come ye to the wa-<br/>
ters." The edifice is of the most solid<br/>
brick walls, with a porch supported by<br/>
five massive pillars of the same mate-<br/>
rial and the whole plastered within and<br/>
without with the whitest lime. The<br/>
roof is covered with the usual earthen<br/>
tiles of the country which always look<br/>
neatly. There is a pleasant front yard<br/>
to the church adorned with "never<br/>
withered flowers" of many kinds, fit<br/>
emblems of heavenly sweetness and<br/>
purity. The church will seat very<br/>
comfortably about two hundred adults<br/>
and by some extra arrangements dou-<br/>
ble that number. We will now close<br/>
by saying to our local readers, please<br/>
invite all your friends to "come and<br/>
see."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shan Land-Sketches
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
HISTORY, LITERATURE RELIGION &c.
CHAPTER III.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Water does a great deal for Shan-<br/>
land. There is the Gulf at its base,<br/>
washing along its coasts at both sides,<br/>
and the beautiful rivers intersected<br/>
with canals bring water in abundance<br/>
to almost every man's door. What<br/>
would the people do without these es-<br/>
sentials to good looks, good health<br/>
and general comfort!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all my travels here, I have al-<br/>
most uniformly, been led to admire<br/>
the abundant facilities for cleanliness<br/>
and comfort, from the great water<br/>
privileges. There seems one excep-<br/>
tion, and I am sure it arises more from a<br/>
want of a little energy and effort than<br/>
anything else. I refer to Anghin and<br/>
other towns in this vicinity. Of all<br/>
Shanland I like the eastern coast the<br/>
best of all, if it had good advantages<br/>
for fresh water. The sea rolls before<br/>
it, and it has a fine sandy beach and<br/>
lays well to receive the sea breezes of<br/>
both monsoons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I do not see why there might not<br/>
be a good road from the Bangpakong<br/>
river, a “little far up” somewhere in<br/>
the vicinity of the first town, running<br/>
down the coast till obstructed by<br/>
towering mountains, and then a good<br/>
canal could be dug beside it, supply-<br/>
ing fresh water from the great river.<br/>
Thus the desideratum, would be se-<br/>
cured, and the coast become suscep-<br/>
table of a large population with better<br/>
facilities for business than any other<br/>
part of the country, and affording<br/>
most magnificent residencies for a<br/>
foreign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mountains of Bangplasoi in<br/>
juxta position with Anghin would<br/>
quite vie with the celebrated San-<br/>
itarium of the East, Penang. Ship-<br/>
ping lays at a convenient distance, and<br/>
no obstructing bar would prove a<br/>
hindrance to ready ingress or egress<br/>
to the convenient shipping, and a bet-<br/>
ter harbor could not be found any-<br/>
where. The Gulf itself is quite safe,<br/>
the whole year round, at the present<br/>
anchorage. Shipping may there lay in<br/>
quiet security, and have no fear of ill.<br/>
And there is sea room adequate to ac-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
commodate shipping to its greatest<br/>
demands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why need all produce go to Bang-<br/>
kok, to be received and discharged?<br/>
If the number of ports were increased<br/>
the country would awake to produc-<br/>
tion, that the demand might be met.<br/>
And if taxes were paid in the vicinity<br/>
of the production, and a portion ex-<br/>
pended to improve the country, and<br/>
increase its internal facilities for com-<br/>
merce and general trade, a new stimu-<br/>
lus would be created to nerve the<br/>
people to effort, and thus labor and<br/>
reward move on hand in hand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Onward let the car of enterprise<br/>
take its course. Let each give the<br/>
wheel an impetus, and all a cheer, as<br/>
they see it move in the path of pro-<br/>
gress. He that produces, acts with<br/>
God, creating for his men. Let every<br/>
man and every child emulate in the<br/>
noble enterprise. Ask what you've<br/>
made when the day is done, and call<br/>
that day lost you've done no good to<br/>
live, and be a part of coming good,<br/>
you purpose still to do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Were the policy of the country for<br/>
progress, to its greatest susceptibility,<br/>
we should soon see the country open<br/>
up everywhere. In our day perhaps<br/>
there might be ports at the mouths of<br/>
all the great rivers communicating<br/>
with the sea. The business mart for<br/>
the river where the capital is located<br/>
would be further down nearer the sea,<br/>
and the whole policy might be a la-<br/>
bor saving policy, the creating a great<br/>
amount with the least expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok is the capital, and as such<br/>
should be a sort of Athens, where the<br/>
literati clustered, where wisdom and<br/>
knowledge, in every department were<br/>
sought and disbursed in laws and<br/>
science and literature and religion.<br/>
We should expect governors and law-<br/>
yers and doctors and judges and<br/>
teachers of all departments, to get a<br/>
great stimulus from the capital. Here<br/>
would essentially be the place to make<br/>
books, issue newspapers, establish col-<br/>
leges, found seminaries and universi-<br/>
ties, and prepare teachers and preach-<br/>
ers to go to remote parts and estab-<br/>
lish new centres to induce like cul-<br/>
ture and impulse and progress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The people of Siam and are awake<br/>
to some 'extent as to their physical<br/>
advantages. Let all strive to help de-<br/>
velop them, and thus there will be<br/>
investments for funds, that will be of<br/>
permanent benefit to the country.<br/>
Roads and canals cannot run away,<br/>
or be burned up, and if well located<br/>
they cannot fail to make property<br/>
very remunerative. The king might<br/>
take the American plan, give stock-<br/>
holders, every alternate lot; to pay for<br/>
making highways, and both king and<br/>
people be made rich by the measure.<br/>
And if the people were allowed to<br/>
expend taxes, in a fair proportion<br/>
where taxes were levied, where the<br/>
country needed improving and de-<br/>
veloping, the people would at once<br/>
awake to internal improvements and<br/>
think and execute for themselves with<br/>
great facility, what is now done by<br/>
the king, with a deal of trouble and<br/>
expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the people were allowed to take<br/>
the work into their own hands, the<br/>
king only protecting from oppression<br/>
and giving encouragement to progress<br/>
in every department, that was for the<br/>
benefit and progress of the country,<br/>
the whole country would immediately<br/>
be a bee-hive, and every individual a<br/>
bee, busy in some department, that<br/>
was to tell in a needed future.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Show "for the day" would be<br/>
hooted from the list of things ap-<br/>
proved, and permanent real substantial<br/>
good alone be taken into account.<br/>
What does the health of the body<br/>
and the health of the soul require?<br/>
This would be the proposition to test<br/>
every enterprise, and as it contributed<br/>
more or less to this great good, so<br/>
would its value be rated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR THE BANGKOK RECORDER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR-—It is rumored that<br/>
you have been called upon officially<br/>
to render an account for an article in<br/>
your last issue over the signature<br/>
Com. Now Sir, His Majesty the<br/>
King of Siam is a public man and his<br/>
Prime Minister of no private reputa-<br/>
tion. And if a consul makes his ap-<br/>
proaches in a public assembly deman-<br/>
ding of the one a political decapita-<br/>
tion of the other, will it not be com-<br/>
municated? Why the wonder is that<br/>
your sheet was not filled with com-<br/>
munications from every consul and<br/>
every other official in the city. What!<br/>
His most esteemed Majesty, noted<br/>
for his liberal policy, now in treaty<br/>
with all the great western powers, be<br/>
ordered, or even requested, to degrade<br/>
his Prime Minister, a man famed the<br/>
world over for his love of progress in<br/>
all the improvements of high civiliza-<br/>
tion, the main pillar of His Majesty's<br/>
government, and not produce a sen-<br/>
sation! Was it strange that those<br/>
who witnessed their much esteemed<br/>
king and their universally beloved<br/>
princes and princesses withdrawing<br/>
from the scene in indignation, and<br/>
shutting the palace gates after them,<br/>
should tell the tale!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Remove the Prime Minister! Why<br/>
the mere suggestion is like an earth-<br/>
quake shaking the very foundations<br/>
of the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The compliment unintentionally<br/>
paid the Prime Minister by that order<br/>
or request of the French Consul was<br/>
such as to secure him everlasting esteem<br/>
by His Majesty, as a man not to be swer-<br/>
ved from the interest of his own govern-<br/>
ment on any consideration by, what<br/>
government soever sustained. Does<br/>
not the scene referred to give us an<br/>
insight into the stability of this govern-<br/>
ment which a dozen volumes could<br/>
not! In all the changes through<br/>
which the government and the country<br/>
are passing into a higher state of civi-<br/>
lisation, His Majesty and his Prime<br/>
Minister stand shoulder to shoulder<br/>
and heart to heart in encouraging im-<br/>
provements and resisting unlawful ag-<br/>
gression. What was it produced the<br/>
recent outbreak but a demand on the<br/>
part of the French Consul for a change<br/>
in the Cambodian Treaty in favor of<br/>
the French and detrimental to the<br/>
Siamese, to which the Prime Minister<br/>
would not yield?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now Sir, as your little sheet is the<br/>
only organ of this city through which<br/>
such startling facts can come before<br/>
the public, you may thank "your<br/>
stars" that you have not been buried<br/>
in communications.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
IBENEES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer Chow Phya left Singa-<br/>
pore on the evening of the 13th inst,<br/>
with strong N. E. wind and fine<br/>
weather. In the Gulf strong northly<br/>
winds with hazy weather. Arrived<br/>
at the bar on Tuesday the 18th inst.<br/>
crossed the bar in the night, and<br/>
arrived at Bangkok on Wednesday<br/>
morning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya. Messrs<br/>
Archibald, Kennedy, Jullian, and<br/>
Forester.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CORRECTION.— We are happy to re-<br/>
port that the Levee given by the<br/>
Siamese government in honor of the<br/>
Captain and officers of H. B. M.’s<br/>
War steamer, the “Pearl” did not<br/>
take place on the Lord’s-day as was<br/>
reported to us, but on Saturday even-<br/>
ing of the 15th inst. the day previous.<br/>
The notice we gave of it in our pre-<br/>
vious issue was grounded upon what we<br/>
regarded correct information. Our in-<br/>
formant made a mistake only in the<br/>
day, and that was one of no small<br/>
moment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. S. R. House M. D. and wife return-<br/>
ed to this city on the evening of the<br/>
16th inst, having been absent from<br/>
his field of missionary labor nearly three<br/>
years. He left N. York on the 21st<br/>
of August, coming via California to<br/>
Hongkong, and from thence direct to<br/>
Bangkok in the Bark “Capsing<br/>
Moon.” The Doctor’s health was<br/>
greatly impaired much of the time<br/>
while in the U. States and consequen-<br/>
tly remained away from his chosen<br/>
work longer than originally intended.<br/>
But when he found himself really<br/>
restored to good health, he deter-<br/>
mined at once to hasten back at his<br/>
own expense, and resume his long ac-<br/>
customed services as a missionary of<br/>
the gospel to the Siamese. He and<br/>
his wife meet with the most cordial<br/>
welcome by not only the Foreign re-<br/>
sidents acquainted with them but<br/>
Siamese princes, nobles, priests and<br/>
people innumerable. We are glad to<br/>
see them both looking so well as if<br/>
their youth had been “renewed like<br/>
the eagles.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very sorry to learn that<br/>
R. S. Scott Esq. was arrested by order<br/>
of the British Consul on the 16th<br/>
inst, and confined in the gaol of the<br/>
Consulate, to make sure of his ap-<br/>
pearance at court in Singapore about<br/>
the 9th of January next, in the<br/>
famous suit touching the loss of the<br/>
Schooner “Erin.” We are informed<br/>
that Mr. Scott has offered heavy<br/>
bands for his appearanee at court but<br/>
that they have been refused. This,<br/>
we must say has a severe look on its<br/>
face, and we fear may prove to be so<br/>
at heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are authorized to inform the pub-<br/>
lic that the A. I. Steamer "Japan" of<br/>
480 tons carrying capacity, may be<br/>
expected to arrive about the middle<br/>
of January 1867, for the purpose of<br/>
carrying freight and passengers to<br/>
Singapore. And should sufficient in-<br/>
ducement offer, it is contemplated to<br/>
run this Steamer and the "Mona"<br/>
alternately once a month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We beg leave again to put our local<br/>
readers in remembrance of the meet-<br/>
ing of the BANGKOK BAZAR ASSOCIATION<br/>
of ladies to be held at the Prot. Church<br/>
on Monday the 24th inst. from 2o'clock<br/>
p. m. to 6 o'clock.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ironclads and the New
Woolwich Gun.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Times)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the strongest ironclad afloat<br/>
might be sent to the bottom as easily as<br/>
a wooden frigate is now a fact about<br/>
which it is hardly possible to entertain a<br/>
doubt. A target with greater resisting<br/>
powers than the broadside of any iron-<br/>
cased frigate or the turret of any Moni-<br/>
tor has been completely smashed by a<br/>
particular kind of shot fired from a par-<br/>
ticular kind of gun, and that gun and<br/>
that shot are of British make and inven-<br/>
tion. It is of equal importance to ob-<br/>
serve that the gun which has proved so<br/>
irresistible is not a piece of any pro-<br/>
digious calibre or impracticable weight,<br/>
but only such a gun as could be carried<br/>
and worked in a ship's broadside.<br/>
Whereas, too, it is scarcely credible that<br/>
any ship could be sent to sea with thick-<br/>
er or more ponderous armour than was<br/>
represented in the target demolished, it<br/>
is very credible indeed that the calibre,<br/>
charge, and power of the gun might be<br/>
increased, so that the essential question<br/>
between ships and guns may be regarded<br/>
as settled. That is the conclusion forced<br/>
upon us by the results of the remarkable<br/>
experiments just reported from Shoebury-<br/>
ness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The target exposed to fire on this oc-<br/>
casion was built up of 18 inches of teak,<br/>
and this compact mass of woodwork was<br/>
covered in front with solid plates of rol-<br/>
led iron eight inches thick, and streng-<br/>
thened at the back by an inner skin of<br/>
iron three quarters of an inch thick. Al-<br/>
together, therefore, this imaginary ship's<br/>
broadside was about two feet three inches<br/>
in thickness—that is, about as thick as<br/>
the wall of an old Norman castle, while<br/>
the materials were hard teak and solid<br/>
iron, instead of ashlar and rubble. If<br/>
castles, in fact, had been built in such a<br/>
fashion, they would have remained up to<br/>
our own day as impregnable to artillery<br/>
as they originally were to bows and ar-<br/>
rows. Nevertheless, when a gun des-<br/>
cribed as the “nine-inch muzzle-loading<br/>
wrought-iron Woolwich rifle gun,” was<br/>
trained against this target, and fired with<br/>
a charge of 43lb. of powder and a 250lb.<br/>
shell of Major Palliser's chilled metal,<br/>
the effect was decisive. The projectile,<br/>
we are told, “went clean through every-<br/>
thing, plate, backing, and inner skin, and<br/>
lodged itself, after exploding in some<br/>
timber, about 20 feet behind the target.<br/>
“Anything more crushing,” it is added,<br/>
“than the shock of this missile it would<br/>
be difficult to conceive, for it struck full<br/>
upon one of the vertical parts of the<br/>
target, and tore its way through as if<br/>
only opposed by a timber screen.” A<br/>
repetition of the experiment did but con-<br/>
firm the results, and the main fact, there-<br/>
fore, is placed beyond reach of doubt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One or two reservations should, it is<br/>
true, be put upon record. These effects<br/>
were produced under conditions excep-<br/>
tionally favourable to the gun, which<br/>
was fired at a comparatively short range,<br/>
and against an immovable target struck<br/>
at right angles. It is obvious that such<br/>
conditions could not always be anticipated<br/>
in an action between ships carefully<br/>
manœuvred, though an English captain<br/>
would probably ask for nothing more<br/>
than equality of speed to give him all<br/>
necessary opportunity for the practice of<br/>
his guns. Still it must be noticed that<br/>
when the target was inclined at an angle<br/>
to the line of fire the projectiles did fail<br/>
to penetrate it. They tore tremendous<br/>
holes in the plating, and one of them ac-<br/>
tually got in to a depth of 12½ inches,<br/>
but they never went quite through. We<br/>
should also observe that Mr. Chalmers,<br/>
the inventor of a very celebrated target,<br/>
claims to be able still to construct a block<br/>
of wood and iron which shall be impreg-<br/>
nable to shot, but practically the case<br/>
stands as we describe it. Now, as no<br/>
ironclad afloat carries solid armour of<br/>
eight inches in thickness; and as the<br/>
composite or laminated armour of the<br/>
American turrets, formed of single-inch<br/>
plates screwed one upon another, will<br/>
bear no comparison with solid metal, it<br/>
follows, as we have said, that the armour<br/>
of any fighting ship at present known<br/>
might be completely demolished by a<br/>
250, pounder gun. The deductions na-<br/>
turally flowing from the conclusion are<br/>
important in the extreme.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the first place, if we are to accept<br/>
these facts as permanently established,<br/>
we may dismiss the question of monster<br/>
cannon from our minds. A gun which<br/>
will sink any enemy is quite big enough,<br/>
and nothing would be gained by a big-<br/>
ger one. The hole made in the Shoebury<br/>
target by a nine-inch Palliser shell was<br/>
large enough to settle the fate of any<br/>
vessel afloat. If the Americans prefer<br/>
15-inch or 20-inch shot, they have a<br/>
right to their choice, but it is obvious<br/>
that this weight of metal and calibre of<br/>
ordnance represent so much superfluity,<br/>
if the required work can be performed<br/>
by a nine-inch gun with equal effect.<br/>
And this again relieves us of another dif-<br/>
ficulty. We shall be no longer under the<br/>
necessity of building turret ships. In so<br/>
far as a turret vessel represents any<br/>
other advantages of model, the device<br/>
may still be a serviceable one, but as<br/>
regards the peculiar capacity of the tur-<br/>
rets for carrying enormous guns, the re-<br/>
commendation will of course disappear<br/>
when enormous guns are no longer re-<br/>
quired. As far as we can now see, the<br/>
biggest guns wanted for sea service can<br/>
be carried easily in broadside, and con-<br/>
sequently a broadside vessel is just as<br/>
good as ever. We might almost say, af-<br/>
ter what has thus been proved, that the<br/>
value of an ironclad as a fighting vessel<br/>
has vanished. When ship's armour was<br/>
first introduced it rendered ships im-<br/>
pregnable, and hence its importance.<br/>
But now that the cannon of that day are<br/>
to be superseded by the Woolwich gun<br/>
of the present the armour confers no<br/>
such security, and so its importance is<br/>
lost. When we read that the sides of<br/>
the Warrior are simply as vulnerable as<br/>
so much basket work it seems impossible<br/>
to regard the Warrior as more of a man-<br/>
of-war than a stout old frigate. This, of<br/>
course, would be an extreme conclusion.<br/>
The Warrior's armour would protect her<br/>
up to a certain point, and insure her a<br/>
proportionate superiority, nor is it a<br/>
slight advantage for a ship to be invul-<br/>
nerable except under peculiar conditions<br/>
of attack. Still the broad fact remains<br/>
that an ironclad is as helpless as any<br/>
wooden corvette against a certain gun<br/>
which every British ship ought to carry.<br/>
Presuming ironclads and wooden ships<br/>
to be thus placed upon an equality of<br/>
hopelessness before modern artillery,<br/>
may we not reconsider our opinions a-<br/>
bout the worthlessness of our old wood-<br/>
en navy? That navy comprises vessels<br/>
by the score which, if wood is as good as<br/>
iron, are still the most magnificent ships<br/>
in the world, and is not wood as good as<br/>
iron if one material is just as strong, or<br/>
as weak, as the other? In this case our<br/>
old superiority as a maritime Power<br/>
would be suddenly restored.-—MAULMAIN<br/>
ADVERTISER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE PIRATE identified as one of the<br/>
party who boarded the American<br/>
schooner Lubra and was present when<br/>
the Captain was murdered has been<br/>
sentenced to death, as also another<br/>
scoundrel who was found guilty of mur-<br/>
dering or assisting at the murder of an<br/>
entire family near Sowke-wan
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Corea.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A strange piece of news has just<br/>
reached us. It appears that off Wusung<br/>
the H. I. M. steamer DUPLEIX full in<br/>
with part of the French squadron de-<br/>
tached to Corea, viz. the Primaguet<br/>
and three others, which reported that<br/>
the expedition had sustained a severe<br/>
repulse at the hands of the Coreans on<br/>
its attacking Saoui, forty men having<br/>
been killed and wounded on the side<br/>
of the French. One gunboat got ashore<br/>
in the river, owing to the tremendous<br/>
fall of the tide, which is stated at about<br/>
42 feet, she was for some time left 30<br/>
feet out of water on a flat rock! For-<br/>
tunately she was eventually got off.<br/>
The French Admiral in the Laplace,<br/>
and the remainder of the squadron con-<br/>
sisting of the Guerriere, Kenshan, and<br/>
others had gone to Yokohama.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Naturally enough a question may be<br/>
asked as to the real cause of the mur-<br/>
der of the whole crew of the unfortu-<br/>
nate schooner, Gen. Sherman and the<br/>
answer is that it was a simple bravado<br/>
of the Coreans, treating with defiance<br/>
a secret despatch from the Peking Gov-<br/>
ernment, with reference to their im-<br/>
prudence of action as regards Europeans<br/>
and warning them at the same time to<br/>
avoid getting into any difficulties with<br/>
him. This dispatch was received in the<br/>
Corea on 15th August. The Regent in-<br/>
stigated by his ministers, replied that it<br/>
was not the first instance that the Co-<br/>
reans had put Europeans to death, that<br/>
China was not to meddle in the matter,<br/>
and that what the Coreans had done be-<br/>
fore they would continue doing! The<br/>
text of both documents was widely circu-<br/>
lated throughout the Corea. We had<br/>
them ourselves, but we overlooked, in<br/>
the hurry of getting away, to keep them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the disaster to the unfortunate<br/>
crew of the schooner, the Koreans vis-<br/>
ited two Chinese Junks, and searched<br/>
them thoroughly, expecting to meet<br/>
with some more Europeans secreted on<br/>
board, not finding them, however, and<br/>
under the pretence that the junks were<br/>
carrying on contraband trade, because<br/>
some shirtings, contraband articles,<br/>
were found on board, they put both<br/>
crews to death."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The French and the Corea.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will be remembered that we re-<br/>
cently expressed our opinion that the<br/>
French were hardly aware of the na-<br/>
ture of the people whom they were<br/>
about to chastise and mentioned the<br/>
anxiety evinced by the Koreans to be-<br/>
come possessed of European scientific<br/>
apparatus. We now lean that the Co-<br/>
reans are reported to have been well<br/>
provided with arms of all kinds—-<br/>
rifled cannon, revolving carbines and<br/>
as some assert, needle guns! Nothing<br/>
could have been more unpropitious<br/>
for the prestige of European arms in<br/>
China than the defeat of a French<br/>
squadron by a people whom the Chin-<br/>
ese look upon as their inferiors and<br/>
who pay annual tribute to China. By<br/>
the way, how is it that nothing has<br/>
been heard of the United States offi-<br/>
cials in connexion with the burning of<br/>
the General Sherman? If they re-<br/>
frain from action it will be as disgrace-<br/>
ful as the apparent apathy of our own<br/>
representative, who appears to have as<br/>
yet taken no steps in reference to the<br/>
decapitation of the unfortunate Mr.<br/>
Thomas and his companion by the<br/>
Koreans. Are the French to have the<br/>
honor and glory of a repulse all to<br/>
themselves?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ruined Temples of Cambodia
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Geographical Section of the<br/>
British Association, Mr. Thomson read<br/>
a paper describing a visit which he made<br/>
in January last to the ruined temples of<br/>
Cambodia, in or adjoining Siam. The<br/>
once extensive and powerful kingdom of<br/>
Cambodia, or Khamain, is situate in the<br/>
tropics between Siam and Cochin China,<br/>
from its southern extremity in the Gulf<br/>
of Siam extends upwards of between<br/>
fourteen and fifteen degrees of North<br/>
latitude, and from one hundred and<br/>
three to one hundred and six and one<br/>
hundred and seven degrees East long-<br/>
itude. The author left Bangkok on the<br/>
27th of January last, the course of the<br/>
journey lying along the Klong Koot Mia<br/>
creek. On the 29th the party reached<br/>
Pachin, which is situate about sixty miles<br/>
north-east of Bangkok, being the first<br/>
place of importance on the route. At<br/>
length the party reached Cambodia, the<br/>
ruins of which are described as follows:-<br/>
The first trace of the ruins of Cambodia<br/>
are situated on the left bank of the river,<br/>
and consist of a rectangular mound, in<br/>
the centre of which are to be found<br/>
among the sculptured remains the frag-<br/>
ments of two exquisitely finished stone<br/>
statues. Having crossed the head of<br/>
the great lake and ascended a small<br/>
stream, we were conducted on elephants<br/>
to Siam-rap, in which the ruins are<br/>
situated. Siam-rap is a strongly forti-<br/>
fied town: half an hour's ride through a<br/>
grand old forest brought us to Ongor<br/>
Watt, or the temple of Ongor or Nakon.<br/>
The natives stated that a flight of angels<br/>
came down from heaven and built these<br/>
temples. The vastness of the temples of<br/>
Ongor suggests comparison with the<br/>
pyramids of Düreth, and the wonderful<br/>
conception and design of the whole with<br/>
the classic antiquities of Greece. From<br/>
the extent, it appears to have been the<br/>
work of generations, and, from its sym-<br/>
metry, the work of a single genius. It<br/>
was with feelings of intense awe that we<br/>
left the forest path to ascend the worn<br/>
steps of the outer causeway. On our<br/>
left, a colossal statue of a lion lay half-<br/>
buried in the sand. Standing on the<br/>
great outer causeway, our eyes wandered<br/>
from its exquisitely fitted bridges of<br/>
free-stone across the broad [dutch?] sur-<br/>
rounding the temple to the great entrance<br/>
of the western gallery, whose massive<br/>
square pillars stood out in bold relief in<br/>
the bright sunshine, and beyond the<br/>
great central mitre-shaped tower about<br/>
seven hundred yards distant. We passed<br/>
through the entrance of the gallery to<br/>
find a second causeway of greater ex-<br/>
tent; there we saw the temple in all its<br/>
magnificence, with its pillared galleries<br/>
rising tier above tier, and terminating in<br/>
the great tower. We ascended through<br/>
sculptured staircases, colonnades, and<br/>
corridors, crossed over paved courts,<br/>
having ornamental reservoirs, until we<br/>
reached the central tower, where we could<br/>
see the rectangular area, occupied by the<br/>
building, measuring 1000 by 1080 yards.<br/>
In the ancient city of Ongor Thom,<br/>
situated a little north of Ongor Watt,<br/>
many of the ruins were supposed to be<br/>
of superior antiquity to that of Ongor<br/>
Watt, and in their grotesque sculptures<br/>
to bear more resemblance to the an-<br/>
tiquities of Hindostan, Ceylon, and Java.<br/>
Mr. Thomson then described at great<br/>
length, and in minute detail, the form and<br/>
character of the sculptured temples, which<br/>
showed, he said, the high state of civiliza-<br/>
tion the ancient Cambodians had arrived<br/>
at; and he concluded by pointing out a<br/>
peculiar phenomenon in connection with<br/>
Sala Sap, the great Lake of Cambodia.<br/>
During the rainy season this lake is made<br/>
a breakwater for the reception of the<br/>
overflow of the great Mekong river, which<br/>
flows through Cambodia into the Gulf<br/>
of Siam; this river unites with the outlet<br/>
of the lake. From this point during the<br/>
rainy season the natural current from<br/>
the lake is driven back by the strength<br/>
of the flood from the Mekong river,<br/>
which continues to pour its annual over-<br/>
flow into the lake until the waters have<br/>
risen four feet. This great body of<br/>
water, over one hundred miles long and<br/>
sixty or seventy at the greatest breadth,<br/>
is not liberated until the end of the<br/>
rainy season, when it flows through its<br/>
natural outlet into the gulf.—PRESBYTER-<br/>
IAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Extinct Race.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the most remarkable races that<br/>
ever inhabited the earth is now extinct.<br/>
They were known as the Guanches, and<br/>
were the aborigines of the Canary Islands.<br/>
In the sixteenth century, pestilence, slav-<br/>
ery, and the cruelty of the Spaniards,<br/>
succeeded in totally exterminating them.<br/>
They are described as having been gi-<br/>
gantic in stature, but of a singularly mild<br/>
and gentle nature. Their food consisted<br/>
of barley, wheat, and goat's milk, and<br/>
their agriculture was of the rudest kind.<br/>
They had a religion which taught them<br/>
of a future state, of rewards and punish-<br/>
ments after death, and of good and evil<br/>
spirits. They regarded the volcano of<br/>
Teneriffe as a place of punishment for<br/>
the bad. The bodies of their dead were<br/>
carefully embalmed, and deposited in<br/>
catacombs, which still continue to be an<br/>
object of curiosity to those who visit the<br/>
islands. Their marriage rites were very<br/>
solemn; and, before engaging in them,<br/>
the bride were fattened on milk. At<br/>
the present day, these strange people are<br/>
totally extinct.—PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bleeding from the Nose.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some two years ago, while going down<br/>
Broadway, New York, blood commenced<br/>
dropping from my nose quite rapidly.<br/>
I stepped aside and applied my handker-<br/>
chief, intending to repair to the nearest<br/>
hotel, when a gentleman accosted me,<br/>
saying:—-“Just put a piece of paper in<br/>
your mouth, chew it rapidly, and it will<br/>
stop your nose bleeding.” Thanking<br/>
him rather doubtfully, I did as he sug-<br/>
gested, and the flow of blood ceased al-<br/>
most immediately. I have seen the<br/>
remedy tried since quite frequently, and<br/>
with success always. Doubtless any sub-<br/>
stance would answer the same purpose<br/>
as well as paper, the stoppage of the flow<br/>
of blood being caused doubtless by the<br/>
rapid motion of the jaws, and the con-<br/>
traction of the muscles and arteries con-<br/>
necting the jaws and nose.—-CULTIVATOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—The Worcester Spy, in a recent<br/>
editorial, after speaking of "the mis-<br/>
chievous temper of the Executive,"<br/>
goes on to say.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But suppose that Washington, in-<br/>
stead of being the peerless patriot that<br/>
he was, had turned his back upon his<br/>
fellow-patroits before he had been three<br/>
months in his scat; that he had sought<br/>
his counsellors among those who had<br/>
speculated in the liberties, and grown<br/>
rich upon the blood of his countryman;<br/>
that, not content with surrounding him-<br/>
self with the tories and cowboys of the<br/>
Revolution, he had offered the addition-<br/>
al affront to the country of making<br/>
them the favorite objects of his bounty,<br/>
that, in the distribution of his patron-<br/>
age, he had passed by the brave men<br/>
who followed him in his dreary winter<br/>
march to the Delaware, or fought with<br/>
him on the fateful or glorious fields of<br/>
that long war, in order to reward those<br/>
who deserted the colonies in the night<br/>
of their bitten need; if Washington<br/>
had been such a traitor, James Madison<br/>
would have said! Let my hand be<br/>
palsied, and my tongue cleave to the<br/>
roof of my mouth, before I encourage<br/>
this infamous thing.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
SODA-WATER
LIMONADE &C
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED begs to<br/>
inform the Ladies and gentle-<br/>
men of Bangkok that he has bought the<br/>
business of Mr. Cordeiro and will carry<br/>
on the same business on his own pre-<br/>
mises near the French Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_16 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE connection of MESSRS. SAMUEL<br/>
GILFILLAN, WILLIAM ADAMSON, HENRY<br/>
WILLIAM WOOD, and PATRICK WILLIAM<br/>
AUCHINCLOSS with our business termi-<br/>
nated by common consent on 31st<br/>
October last, and they have ceased to<br/>
act as Managers for us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE BORNEO CO. "LIMITED"
Singapore, 3rd Dec 1866 (1 m.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Count Bismark.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KARL OTTO VON BISMARCK auf Schön-<br/>
hausen, the bold and dexterous Minister<br/>
who has conquered Germany for Prussia,<br/>
was born at Brandenburg, in 1813.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the earlier part of his career, Herr<br/>
von Bismarck does not appear to have<br/>
shown any promise of future distinction.<br/>
He was educated successively at the Uni-<br/>
versities of Göttingen, Greifswalde, and<br/>
Berlin, where he is said to have been ad-<br/>
dicted beyond measure to the boisterous<br/>
pleasures of the German Burschen, and to<br/>
have displayed no great proficiency in his<br/>
studies. It is even asserted that he failed<br/>
to pass the requisite examination for enter-<br/>
ing the civil service, and was admitted by<br/>
special favour. His father was a country<br/>
squire of noble birth and moderate estate;<br/>
but more than one member of his family<br/>
had bold high office, and Otto von Bis-<br/>
marck was not without the aid of influen-<br/>
tial patrons. Nevertheless, he had obtain-<br/>
ed no higher promotion than the post of<br/>
Superintendent of Dykes in the Altmark<br/>
up to the time of his election, in 1847, as<br/>
a member of the Prussian Diet, having<br/>
previously had a seat in the provincial as-<br/>
sembly of that part of the kingdom where<br/>
he dwelt. He was immediately noticed as<br/>
one of the most vehement and even inso-<br/>
lent champions of the Junker or Tory<br/>
party, as he ostentatiously professed his<br/>
contempt for the principles of constitution-<br/>
al government, ridiculed the practice of<br/>
parliamentary debate, denied that the<br/>
King of Prussia was bound to grant those<br/>
franchises which had been solemnly pro-<br/>
mised at the time of the war against Na-<br/>
poleon, and declared that the Royal prero-<br/>
gative was derived, not from the consent<br/>
of the people, but from the grace of God,<br/>
and was practically unlimited save by the<br/>
voluntary concessions of the Royal bounty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These opinions were not the extravagant<br/>
conceits of youth, but have been asserted<br/>
by Herr von Bismarck on all occasions<br/>
since he began to take a conspicuous place<br/>
in public life, which was in the thirty-fifth<br/>
year of his age. He has repeatedly de-<br/>
nounced the freedom of the press, and the<br/>
spread of intelligence among the working<br/>
classes; he has gone so far as to express a<br/>
wish that the large manufacturing and<br/>
commercial towns could be destroyed, so<br/>
that a purely rural population might sub-<br/>
missively obey the behests of an absolute<br/>
ruler. These and similar utterances of<br/>
rampant Toryism, such as can scarcely be<br/>
matched by any instance in the history of<br/>
English parties, rendered Herr von Bis-<br/>
marck one of the most unpopular men of<br/>
his time. He was excluded from the Ger-<br/>
man National Assembly of 1848, and lived<br/>
some months in retirement; but in the<br/>
following year, upon the triumph of the<br/>
reactionary party, he took his seat in the<br/>
Chamber of Deputies at Berlin as member<br/>
for the district of Zauche. Here, again, he<br/>
was the bitterest assailant of the Moderate<br/>
Liberals, and was accustomed to deride<br/>
the aspirations towards German unity<br/>
which the so-called Gotha party already<br/>
began to encourage, as associated with the<br/>
cause of constitutional liberty in Prussia.<br/>
Herr von Bismarck, for his part, maintain-<br/>
ed that it was to Prussianism, not to Ger-<br/>
manism, that they must look for the safety<br/>
and advancement of the State. He affected<br/>
in those days to venerate Austria as the<br/>
proper representative of the ancient pow-<br/>
er of Germany, while he censured the<br/>
struggle for Schleswig-Holstein as a petty<br/>
act of revolution, and an infringement of<br/>
the rights of the King of Denmark. As an<br/>
instance of his sagacity on questions of<br/>
political economy, it is remembered that<br/>
he was the advocate of a law by which<br/>
the trade guilds should be empowered, as<br/>
in the Middle Ages, to fix an arbitrary<br/>
price for every sort of goods to be sold,<br/>
and to prescribe the number of apprentices<br/>
who should be brought up to each trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1851, Herr von Bismarck was admit-<br/>
ted to the diplomatic service, and sent as<br/>
first secretary of legation to the Prussian<br/>
Embassy at Frankfort; but, within three<br/>
months of his arrival at this post, was<br/>
elevated, by an extraordinary promotion,<br/>
to that of ambassador at the sittings of the<br/>
Federal Bund. He had evidently been<br/>
selected for his independent and supercili-<br/>
ous bearing, on purpose to bid defiance<br/>
to Count Rechberg, who was then Austrian<br/>
Ambassador at Frankfort and President<br/>
of the Diet. Many amusing stories are<br/>
told of the encounters between them, Herr<br/>
von Bismarck, by his high spirits, wit, and<br/>
courage, usually getting the better of his<br/>
more dignified antagonist, who was once<br/>
so plainly insulted by the Prussian that<br/>
they were on the point of fighting a duel.<br/>
It became necessary, therefore, to recall<br/>
Herr von Bismarck from Frankfort, and he<br/>
was transferred to the embassy at St.<br/>
Petersburg, where he entered into intimate<br/>
relations with Prince Gortschakoff, then<br/>
busy with schemes for a triple alliance of<br/>
Russia, Prussia, and France, by which each<br/>
of those Powers was to acquire an exten-<br/>
sive addition to its territories at the ex-<br/>
pense of Austria, Turkey, Belgium, and<br/>
the smaller German States. The Crimean<br/>
War however, prevented, or at least post-<br/>
poned, the execution of these projects,<br/>
which seem not to have been agreed to by<br/>
the Emperor of the French, and were af-<br/>
terwards disavowed by the Prince Regent<br/>
of Prussia, who at that time was unwilling<br/>
to entertain any plans of self-aggrandi-<br/>
sement at the expense of his brother so-<br/>
vereigns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After his accession to the throne a<br/>
change, apparently for the worse, came<br/>
over the state of Prussia. The Liberal in-<br/>
fluences of the Crown Prince, the Prince<br/>
of Hohenzollern, and their friends, now<br/>
gave way to the intrigues of the Junkers,<br/>
or, as they are sometimes called, from the<br/>
title of their newspaper organ, the KREUZ<br/>
ZEITUNG party. Count Bernstorff having<br/>
become Minister of Foreign Affairs instead<br/>
of Herr von Schleinitz, a new line of for-<br/>
eign policy was resolved upon, though it<br/>
was necessarily to be kept dark till the<br/>
views of the other European Powers could<br/>
be ascertained. Herr von Bismarck, leav-<br/>
ing Count Goltz to succeed him at the<br/>
Russian Court, had no sooner returned to<br/>
Berlin than it was intimated by the French<br/>
Minister that the Emperor Napoleon<br/>
would like to see Bismarck as Prussian<br/>
Plenipotentiary at the Tuileries. He had<br/>
more than once spoken in favour of a<br/>
French alliance, under certain circum-<br/>
stances, previously to the war between<br/>
France and Austria in 1859. Herr von<br/>
Bismarck thus became Prussian Ambas-<br/>
sador at Paris ; but what passed between<br/>
him and the Emperor Napoleon is best<br/>
known to themselves. It has been gener-<br/>
ally believed that they understand each<br/>
other pretty well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In September, 1862, Herr von Bismarck<br/>
was summoned home to Berlin, and in-<br/>
trusted with the task of forming a new<br/>
Ministry, over which he has since presided,<br/>
with the portfolio of Foreign Affairs,<br/>
Count Eulenburg being Minister of the<br/>
Interior; Herr von Roon, Minister of War;<br/>
and Bodelschwingh and Von der Heydt<br/>
successively Finance Ministers. The whole<br/>
course of their administration, from 1862<br/>
down to the outbreak of the late war, has<br/>
been a pertinacious conflict against the<br/>
majority of the Chamber, whose votes<br/>
have been impudently set at nought, and<br/>
whose Constitutional power to control<br/>
the public expenditure has been nullified,<br/>
while the Prime Minister has coolly de-<br/>
clared that he and his colleagues will not<br/>
be responsible to Parliament, and that<br/>
they consider themselves only servants of<br/>
the Crown. The subject-matter of the<br/>
original dispute was the augmentation of<br/>
the army estimates and the law extending<br/>
the period of compulsory service in the<br/>
army to three years. The Chamber hav-<br/>
ing, by majorities of 272 against 68, and<br/>
of 251 against 36, decided these questions<br/>
against the Government, Bismarck dissol-<br/>
ved the Chamber, after a series of angry<br/>
altercations, and informed them that the<br/>
King would dispense with their approval<br/>
of the budget, and would put in execution<br/>
whatever measures he thought best for the<br/>
public service. The deputies, being more<br/>
submissive than our English Parliament<br/>
in the reign of Charles I., went their ways<br/>
quietly home. The newspapers which<br/>
ventured to comment on this high-handed<br/>
procedure of the Government were pro-<br/>
secuted with great severity ; and those<br/>
public officials, magistrates, or university<br/>
professors, who dared to raise their voices<br/>
on behalf of the Constitution, were punish-<br/>
ed by removal to distant places, if not by<br/>
the loss of office. It should, however, be<br/>
observed that the arbitrary proceedings of<br/>
the Prussian Government did not, as in<br/>
the English case of the "ship money," or<br/>
"the tallage and poundage," extend so far<br/>
as the levying of taxes without lawful<br/>
authority, by a mere edict of the Crown,<br/>
the fact being that the revenue of the<br/>
Crown of Prussia was fixed by a permanent<br/>
settlement, and was nowise dependent on<br/>
the annual votes of Parliament.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus practically despotic, the rule of<br/>
King William I. and Bismarck, his Min-<br/>
ister, during the last three or four years,<br/>
has been directed with astonishing suc-<br/>
cess, though by conduct which history will<br/>
perhaps stigmatise as perfidious and<br/>
double-dealing, to the achievement of<br/>
those grand objects, the expulsion of Aus-<br/>
tria from the German political system,<br/>
and the consequent union of the several<br/>
States of North Germany to the Prussian<br/>
kingdom, which are regarded by most im-<br/>
partial observers as a change beneficial to<br/>
the interests of European peace and civili-<br/>
sation. Nor can we doubt that these re-<br/>
sults are equally acceptable to the nation-<br/>
al spirit of the Germans. It is unnecessary<br/>
here to review the series of transactions<br/>
relative to the Schleswig-Holstein pro-<br/>
vinces, which led to the open quarrel be-<br/>
tween Prussia on the one hand, and Aus-<br/>
tria, with the minor States of Germany,<br/>
on the other, finally issuing in the rupture<br/>
and decisive war of last midsummer. It would<br/>
be a difficult task to attempt to vindicate<br/>
the honesty and good faith of the Prussian<br/>
Government in these transactions ; but the<br/>
skill and valour of the Prussian army, the<br/>
intelligence and patriotic spirit of the<br/>
Prussian people, have justly earned for<br/>
their country a degree of political and<br/>
military importance second to none of the<br/>
Powers of Europe.—ILL. LON. NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Sky an Indicator
of the Weather.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The color of the sky, at particular<br/>
times, affords wonderful good guidance.<br/>
Not only does a very rosy sunset presage<br/>
good weather, and a ruddy sunrise bad<br/>
weather, but there are other tints which<br/>
speak with equal clearness and accuracy.<br/>
A bright yellow sky in the evening indi-<br/>
cates wind; a pale yellow, wet; a neu-<br/>
tral gray color constitutes a favorable<br/>
sign in the evening, and an unfavorable<br/>
one in the morning. The clouds are<br/>
again full of meaning in themselves. If<br/>
their forms are soft, undefined, and full<br/>
feathery, the weather will be fine; if<br/>
their edges are hard, sharp, and definite,<br/>
it will be foul. Generally speaking, any<br/>
deep, unusual hues betoken wind or rain;<br/>
while the more quiet and delicate tints<br/>
be-speak fair weather. These are simple<br/>
maxims; and yet not so simple but the<br/>
British Board of Trade has thought fit<br/>
to publish them for the use of seafaring<br/>
men.—-SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When people come to see us, we fool-<br/>
ishly chatter, lest we be inhospitable.<br/>
Things said for conversation's sake, are<br/>
chalk eggs.—EMERSON.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think after awl, the injunrubber<br/>
kind ov virtue, that will bend and stretch,<br/>
just a little, and then, fli right back to<br/>
its plase, iz safer than the isikle virtue,<br/>
that iz pretty sure tew melt, unless yu<br/>
keep it on the north side of the barn awl<br/>
the time, and when it once melts; that<br/>
iz the last ov it.—JOSH BILLING.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
There is no such/way to attain to great-<br/>
er measure of grace as for a man to live<br/>
up to that little grace he has.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Troubles are like babies—they grow<br/>
bigger by nursing.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 9th number of the Bangkok<br/>
Calendar will, be issued about the<br/>
first of January next. It will not<br/>
contain the usual amount of suppli-<br/>
mentary matter of the preceding No's,<br/>
since much of that kind of reading has<br/>
already been furnished this year in the<br/>
columns of the Bangkok Recorder,<br/>
thus superoeding the desirableness<br/>
of the like in the Calendar, and, be-<br/>
cause it increases the cost of the<br/>
work quite too much for the small<br/>
pay that it brings the proprietor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All who wish to have their business<br/>
relations or simply their names publish-<br/>
ed in the Calendar will please take<br/>
the necessary steps to have them cor-<br/>
rectly inserted. A printed sheet of the<br/>
usual business relations and names<br/>
will be sent about town early next<br/>
week to receive the corrections that<br/>
will need to be made for the year 1867.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Malherbe Jullian & Co.<br/>
beg to inform the public, that<br/>
they have established a branch of their<br/>
business in the house formerly occupied<br/>
by F. Blake Esq. near the Portuguese<br/>
Consulate, and that they have just re-<br/>
ceived a large supply of almost every<br/>
thing their customers may desire to<br/>
purchase, and would hereby invite<br/>
them to come and inspect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Dec. 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE BEG to inform the Public,<br/>
that we have received a new<br/>
and fine assortment of all kinds of<br/>
liquids as, Champaigne, 1st mark<br/>
Roederer and Sacguesson, superior and<br/>
inferior kinds of Bordeaux and Bar-<br/>
gundy wine, Porto, Sberry and Brandy<br/>
of different marks, English and Ger-<br/>
man Beer. Also fruits, jellies, raisins<br/>
for puddings, and various kinds of<br/>
Biscuits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
