---
linkTitle: 'June 28th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 28th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 28th'
date: 2025-12-07T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 48
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VLO. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, June 28th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 25.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Puritan of 1863.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was in the early part of October,—-<br/>
that the Rev. Mr. Allan started to walk to<br/>
Farmer Owen's over the hills. He had to<br/>
cross two low spurs of the Green Moun-<br/>
tains, and as he climbed to the top of the<br/>
second the rich valley of the Otter Creek<br/>
lay spread out before him. At any other<br/>
time he would have stopped to admire its<br/>
gentle undulations; its great flower gardens<br/>
of forest trees, rich in every color and hue;<br/>
its silver threads winding their way to the<br/>
waters of the Champlain, and the glorious<br/>
autumn light which lay like a golden man-<br/>
tle over them all. But this afternoon he<br/>
seemed oppressed by the beauty which<br/>
surrounded him. He looked upon it with<br/>
eyes misty from tears. There was a dull,<br/>
heavy weight upon his heart—a weight<br/>
which even the long, fervent prayers that<br/>
he had uttered so unceasingly since noon<br/>
had failed to move. Between him and<br/>
that landscape, we might almost say, be-<br/>
tween him and the mercy seat, there moved<br/>
a slight, tall boy, with a laughing blue eye,<br/>
clustering brown hair, and lips always<br/>
ready with a merry pleasant word. To-<br/>
day, there was Benny, nutting under the<br/>
bare, brawny arms of the butternut tree;<br/>
throwing his line into the little brooks,<br/>
that came babbling down from the steep<br/>
mountain side; driving his cows along the<br/>
narrow foot-path ; standing with Blossom<br/>
under the bright maple, and shouting with<br/>
pride and joy as she wreathed her pretty<br/>
face in the gay leaves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh, Bennie! Bennie!" Mr. Allan hard-<br/>
ly knew he was calling the name, until it<br/>
came back to him with such an empty,<br/>
mocking sound, from the heartless echo:<br/>
"almost"—-Mr. Allan thought, startling<br/>
himself by the seeming impiety of the<br/>
words-—"almost as if there were no great,<br/>
kind Father over us all."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As he came near Farmer Owen's house,<br/>
he saw his oxen yoked to the plough. He<br/>
knew they had been there since the tele-<br/>
graph came. Mr. Owen had read it in the<br/>
field, gone to the house and forgotten<br/>
them, and no one had dared to put them<br/>
up. He was a man fully capable of taking<br/>
care of his own affairs under any circum-<br/>
stances, never having been known before<br/>
to forget.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Allan beckoned to an Irishman who<br/>
was passing, and asked him to take care<br/>
of them. The man came with an awed<br/>
look upon his face, as if even there he<br/>
stood in the presence of a great sorrow,<br/>
and without the least noise obeyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Allan walked on slowly toward the<br/>
house. He had known Mr. Owen for many<br/>
years, and he knew him well. Indeed<br/>
there was a peculiar bond of sympathy<br/>
between the two men. In all his large<br/>
parish, there was not one upon whom the<br/>
minister relied as he did upon this strong,<br/>
sturdy farmer. Many and many an hour<br/>
he had walked by his side when he was<br/>
upturning the brown earth, and had dis-<br/>
coursed with him on topics which would<br/>
have sounded harsh and repulsive to com-<br/>
mon ears, but which were fraught with<br/>
deep and vital interest to them. Mr. Owen<br/>
was a direct descendant of the Puritans,<br/>
and every drop of blood in his veins was<br/>
tinged with a strong and true a "blue,"<br/>
as if he himself had landed in the May-<br/>
flower. He took naturally to the sterner<br/>
doctrines of religion, while Mr. Allan,<br/>
versed in all the modern lore, questioned<br/>
and doubted. The key-stone of Mr. Owen's<br/>
theology was the sovereignty of God;—-<br/>
"Shall not the Judge of all the earth do<br/>
"rights" This was the man upon whom<br/>
God had now laid his hand so heavily;<br/>
and Mr. Allan felt that if the trial brought<br/>
no rumour, no rebellion against that<br/>
mighty Sovereign, the stern old faith were<br/>
indeed a rich one in which to live and die.<br/>
He knew that one element in this was<br/>
Puritan. Some of the Roundheads allied<br/>
up the ranks of the Northern army. They<br/>
marched to battle to strains of the old<br/>
tune that had lingered in the nursery and<br/>
the sanctuary from the day that Cromwell<br/>
and his soldiers chanted them on Marston<br/>
Moor. All throes the sails of Time came<br/>
trampling to the music mailed men, bearing<br/>
on their shoulders the two words, Liberty<br/>
and Equality. They trembled on Mr.<br/>
Owen's lip with his parting blessing to<br/>
his boy. Would he remember them, and<br/>
would they comfort and give him strength<br/>
sow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Where there is affliction in a house, the<br/>
minister is at home. Mr. Allan entered<br/>
without knocking, and made his way to<br/>
the large, old-fashioned kitchen in which<br/>
he was sure of finding the family.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There, by a table, with his arms folded<br/>
and laid heavily upon it, sat Mr. Owen.<br/>
His wife was in a small rocking-chair by<br/>
the fire, and Blossom, a young girl, sat<br/>
between them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Owen rose to welcome him; so did<br/>
Blossom; but the wife did not notice him,<br/>
she sat still, rocking herself to and fro,<br/>
looking at the blazing wood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Allan put a hand in the breast-pocket<br/>
that was rolled out forward and his face<br/>
was pale as the other of Mr. Owen's great heaving<br/>
breast. "My friend," he said, "how is it<br/>
with the decrees of God?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Just and true are all thy ways, thou<br/>
King of Saints," faltered out the man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was something strange in his<br/>
voice,-—a thin, womanly sound, so unlike<br/>
the deep, stentorian tones in which he had<br/>
always spoken before. Mr. Allan, when<br/>
he heard it, almost fell as if it had been<br/>
a limb a blow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Thank God! He has not, then, forsaken<br/>
you, and from the depths of this deep<br/>
trouble you can still say, 'The Maker of<br/>
all death well.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, yes,"—and for an instant there<br/>
glimmered from his dull eye a spark of the<br/>
old controversial fire-—"you don't suppose<br/>
I have held on to that anchor when the<br/>
skies were clouded, and the little waves<br/>
were tossed on my poor heart, betimes of it<br/>
now-—now, when the great waves and bil-<br/>
lows are going over me, do you? I've<br/>
planted it here, and I don't yield; no, no;<br/>
now! What I am, but the strain is terrible,<br/>
God send it may carry me into port, oh,<br/>
Mr. Allan, say it will. It has seemed to<br/>
me to-day so dark, so wonderful, so inscru-<br/>
table, that he—my Bennie! Mr. Allan,<br/>
there is a good, wise purpose behind it all.<br/>
Can you see it?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"To bring you nearer the kingdom," muttered<br/>
the minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh, don't tell me that; I can't bear it.<br/>
God is too wise;, He knows a hundred such<br/>
souls as mine are not worth one of my<br/>
Bennie's. I can suffer it I am too great a<br/>
sinner for God's grace to save, but Bennie!<br/>
Bennie!! I have sat here all day, since<br/>
the news came, wondering, wondering; he<br/>
was so good a son,"—and Mr.Owen's voice<br/>
grew almost inarticulate in its emotion,—<br/>
"such a dear, precious, noble boy! I<br/>
though, when I gave him to his country,<br/>
that not a father in all this board land<br/>
made so precious a gift,—no not one. God<br/>
forgive me if my grief is a sin. Mr. Allan,<br/>
the dear boy only slept a minute, just one<br/>
little minute, at his post; I know that was <br/>
all, for Bennie never does over a duty.<br/>
How prompt and reliable he was!" and<br/>
Mr. Owen's eye wandered out over the<br/>
brown fields, with such a perplexed, won-<br/>
dering look. "I know he only fell off one<br/>
little second; he was so young and not<br/>
strong, that boy of mine! Why, he was as <br/>
tall as I, and only eigtheen! and now they<br/>
shoot him becuase he was found asleep<br/>
when doing sentinel duty." Mr. Owen<br/>
repeated these words very slowly, as if en-<br/>
deavouring to find out their true meaning<br/>
"Twenty-four hours, the telegraph said,—<br/>
only twenty-four hours. WHERE is Bennie<br/>
now?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We will hope, with his Heavenly Fa-<br/>
ther," said Mr. Allan, soothingly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, yes, let us hope; Good is very mer-<br/>
ciful, and Bennie was so good—I do not<br/>
mean holy," he said, correcting himself<br/>
sharply; "there is none holy—no, not one,<br/>
—but Jesus died for sinners. Mr. Allan,<br/>
tell me that. Oh, Bennie, Bennie!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mother raised herself as she heard<br/>
his name called, and, turning, said, with a<br/>
smile: Don't call so loud, father. Bennie<br/>
is not far off; he will come soon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"God laid his hand on them both, you<br/>
see," saif Mr. Own, pointing to her, with-<br/>
out making any direct reply. "She has<br/>
not been justly herself since. It is a mer-<br/>
ciful thing she is sort of stunned, it seems<br/>
to me; she makes no wail. Poor mother!<br/>
if my heart was not borken it would almost<br/>
kill me to see her so. Bennie was her idol.<br/>
I told her often, God had said, 'Thou shalt<br/>
have no gods before me.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Allan looked in astonishment at the <br/>
bowed man as he came now and stood be-<br/>
fore him. These few hours had done the <br/>
work of years. The sinewy frame was<br/>
tottering, the eyes were dimmed, and the<br/>
sudden sorrow had written itself in deep<br/>
wrinkles all over his manly face. He re-<br/>
cognised the power of the great, kind<br/>
heart, simple and almost childlike in its<br/>
innocent, clinging affection; how could<br/>
this be reconciled with the stern, strong<br/>
bead—the head that to common observers<br/>
outlined the character of the man? "God<br/>
have many on you; He is tryng you in a<br/>
furnace seven times heated," he exclaimed,<br/>
almost involentarily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"'I should be ashamed, father!" he said,<br/>
'when I am a man, to think I never used<br/>
this great right arm,'—and he held it out<br/>
so proudly before me,—'for my country,<br/>
when it needed it. Palsy it, rather, than<br/>
keep it at the plough.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Go, Bennie, then go, my boy,' I said,<br/>
'and God keep you.' God has kept him,<br/>
I think, Mr. Allan!' and the farmer repeat-<br/>
ed these last words slowly, as if, in spite<br/>
of his head, his heart doubted them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Like the apple of his eye, Mr. Owen,<br/>
doubt it not!'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Blossom had sat near them listening,<br/>
with blanched cheek. She had not shed a<br/>
tear to-day, and the terror in her face had<br/>
been so very still no one had noticed it.<br/>
She had occupied herself mechanically in<br/>
the household cares, which her mother's<br/>
condition devolved entirely upon her. Now<br/>
she answered a gentle tap at the kitchen<br/>
door, opening it to receive from a neigh-<br/>
bor's hand a letter. 'It is from HIM,'<br/>
was all she said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Twas like a message from the dead. Mr.<br/>
Owen could not break the seal for his<br/>
trembling fingers, and held it toward Mr.<br/>
Allan, with the helplessness of a child.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The minister opened it, and, obedient to<br/>
a motion from the father, read as follows :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'DEAR FATHER :—-When this reaches<br/>
you I shall be in eternity. At first, it<br/>
seemed awful to me ; but I have thought<br/>
about it so much now that it has no terror.<br/>
They say they will not bind me, nor blind<br/>
me, but that I may meet my death like a<br/>
man. I thought, father, it might have<br/>
been on the battle-field, for my country,<br/>
and that, when I fell, it would be fighting<br/>
gloriously ; but to be shot down like a dog<br/>
for nearly betraying it, to die for neglect<br/>
of duty!—-Oh, father, I wonder the very<br/>
thought does not kill me. But I shall not<br/>
disgrace you. I am going to write you<br/>
all about it, and, when I am gone, you may<br/>
tell my comrades. I can't now.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'You know, I promised Jemmy Carr's<br/>
mother, I would look after her boy, and<br/>
when he fell sick, I did all I could for<br/>
him. He was not strong, when he was<br/>
ordered back into the ranks, and the day<br/>
before that night, I carried all his luggage,<br/>
beside my own, on our march. Toward<br/>
night we went in on double quick, and<br/>
though the luggage began to feel very<br/>
heavy, everybody else was tired too, and<br/>
as for Jemmy, if I had not lent him an<br/>
arm, now and then, he would have dropped<br/>
by the way. I was all tired out when we<br/>
came into camp, and then it was Jemmy's<br/>
turn to be sentry, and I would take his<br/>
place, but I was too tired, father. I could<br/>
not have kept awake, if I had a gun at my<br/>
head, but I did not know it until—-well,<br/>
until it was too late.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'God be thanked," interrupted Mr. Owen<br/>
reverently, "I knew Bennie was not the<br/>
boy to sleep carelessly at his post.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They tell me to-day that I have a short<br/>
reprieve, given to me by circumstances,<br/>
'time to write to you,' our good Colonel<br/>
says. Forgive him, father, he only does<br/>
his duty ; he would gladly save me, if he<br/>
could, and don't lay my death up against<br/>
Jemmy. The poor boy is broken hearted,<br/>
and does nothing but beg and entreat<br/>
them to let him die in my stead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'I can't bear to think of mother and<br/>
Blossom. Comfort them, father! Tell<br/>
them I die as a brave boy should, and that<br/>
when the war is over, they will not be<br/>
ashamed of me as they must be now. God<br/>
help me, it is very hard to bear. Goodbye,<br/>
father, God seems near and dear to me, not<br/>
at all, as if he wished me to perish forever,<br/>
but as if he felt sorry for his poor, sinful,<br/>
broken hearted child, and would take him<br/>
to be with him and my Saviour, in a better<br/>
—better life.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great sob burst from Mr. Owen's heart.<br/>
'Amen!' he said solemnly. 'Amen!'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'To-night in the early twilight I shall<br/>
see the cows all coming home from pasture.<br/>
Daisy, and Brindle and Bet ; old Billy too,<br/>
will neigh to me from his stall, and prec-<br/>
ious little Blossom stand on the back stoop<br/>
waiting for me—-but I shall never-—never<br/>
come. God bless you all! forgive your<br/>
poor Bennie.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Late that night the door of the "back<br/>
stoop" opened softly and a little figure<br/>
glided out, and down the footpath that led<br/>
to the road by the mill. She seemed rather<br/>
flying, than walking, turning her head<br/>
neither to the right nor the left ; starting<br/>
not, as the full moon stretched queer, fan-<br/>
tastic shapes all around her, looking only<br/>
now and then, to Heaven, and folding her<br/>
hands, as if in prayer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two hours later, the same young girl<br/>
stood at the Mill Depot, watching the<br/>
coming of the night train, and the conduc-<br/>
tor, as he reached down to lift her in, won-<br/>
dered at the sweet, tear-stained face that<br/>
was upturned toward the dim lantern he<br/>
held in his hand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few questions and ready answers told<br/>
him all, and no father could have cared<br/>
more tenderly for his only child, than he,<br/>
for our little Blossom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She was on her way to Washington, to<br/>
ask President Lincoln for her brother's life.<br/>
She had stolen away, leaving only a note<br/>
to tell her father where, and why, she had<br/>
gone. She had brought Bennie's letter<br/>
with her; no good kind heart like the Pre-<br/>
sident's, could refuse to be melted by it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next morning they reached New<br/>
York, and the conductor found suitable<br/>
company for Blossom, and hurried her on<br/>
to Washington. Every minute now, might<br/>
be a year in her brother's life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And so in an incredibly short time, Blos-<br/>
som reached the Capital and was hurried<br/>
at once to the White House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President had but just seated him-<br/>
self to his morning's task, of overlooking<br/>
and signing important papers, when, with-<br/>
out one word of announcement, the door<br/>
softly opened, and Blossom, with eyes down-<br/>
cast and folded hands, stood before him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, my child," he said in his pleasant,<br/>
cheery tones, "what do you want so bright<br/>
and early in the morning?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Bennie's life, please, sir," faltered out<br/>
Blossom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Bennie? Who is Bennie?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My brother, sir. They are going to<br/>
shoot him for sleeping at his post."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh yes," and Mr. Lincoln ran his eye<br/>
over the papers before him. "I remember.<br/>
It was a fatal sleep. You see, child, it was<br/>
at a time of special danger. Thousands<br/>
of lives might have been lost for his culpa-<br/>
ble negligence."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"So my father said," said Blossom grave-<br/>
ly, "but poor Bennie was so tired, sir, and<br/>
Jemmy so weak. He did the work of two,<br/>
sir, and it was Jemmy's night, not his, but<br/>
Jemmy was too tired, and Bennie never<br/>
thought about himself, that he was too<br/>
tired."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What is this you say, child? come<br/>
here, I don't understand," and the kind<br/>
man caught eagerly, as ever, at what seem-<br/>
ed to be a justification of an offence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Blossom went to him; he put his hands<br/>
tenderly on her shoulder and turned up<br/>
the pale, anxious face toward his. How<br/>
tall he seemed, and he was President of<br/>
the United States, too! A dim thought of<br/>
this kind, passed for a moment through<br/>
Blossom's mind, but she told her story<br/>
now simply and straightforward, and hand-<br/>
ed Mr. Lincoln, Bennie's letter to read.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He read it carefully, then taking up his<br/>
pen wrote a few hasty lines, and rang his<br/>
bell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Blossom heard this order given: "SEND<br/>
THIS DISPATCH AT ONCE."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President then turned to the girl<br/>
and said: 'Go home, my child, and tell<br/>
that father of yours, who could approve<br/>
his country's sentence, even when it took<br/>
the life of a child like that, that Abraham<br/>
Lincoln thinks the life far too precious to<br/>
be lost. Go back, or—wait until tomor-<br/>
row; Bennie will need change after he has<br/>
so bravely faced death, he shall go with<br/>
you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"God bless you, sir," said Blossom; and<br/>
who shall doubt that God heard and regis-<br/>
tered the request.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two days after this interview the young<br/>
soldier came to the White House with his<br/>
little sister. He was called into the Pre-<br/>
sident's private room, and a strap fastened<br/>
"upon the shoulder," Mr. Lincoln said,<br/>
"that could carry a sick comrade's baggage<br/>
and die for the good act so uncomplain-<br/>
ingly." Then Bennie and Blossom took<br/>
their way to their Green Mountain home,<br/>
and a crowd gathered at the Mill Depot to<br/>
welcome them back, and farmer Owen's<br/>
tall head lowered above them all, and as<br/>
his hand grasped that of his boy, Mr. Allan<br/>
heard him say fervently, as the holiest<br/>
blessing he could pronounce upon his child:<br/>
"Just and true are all thy ways, thou King<br/>
of Saints."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That night, Daisy and Brindle and Bet<br/>
came lowing home from pasture, for they<br/>
hear a wellknown voice calling them at<br/>
the gate; and Bennie as he pats his old<br/>
pets and looks lovingly in their great<br/>
brown eyes, catches through the still even-<br/>
ing air his Puritan father's voice as he re-<br/>
peats to his happy mother these jubilant<br/>
words: "Fear not, for I am with thee; I<br/>
will bring thy seed from the East, and<br/>
gather thee from the West; I will say to<br/>
the North give, and to the South, keep not<br/>
back; bring my sons from far, and my<br/>
daughters from the ends of the earth, every<br/>
one that is called by my name, for I have<br/>
created him for my glory; I have formed<br/>
him, yea, I have made him."-—NEW YORK<br/>
OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent, writing from St. Peters-<br/>
burg on the 17th inst., furnishes the de-<br/>
tails following relative to the late attempt<br/>
on the Emperor's life :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The Emperor is extremely regular in<br/>
his habits. At half-past eight every morn-<br/>
ing he may be seen to leave the palace on<br/>
foot, followed by several of his dogs, for<br/>
he is known to be a keen sportsman. His<br/>
early walk seldom exceeds twenty minutes<br/>
or half an hour, and on returning to the<br/>
palace he remains indoors and attends to<br/>
business till half-past two, at which time<br/>
he takes a drive and alights at the Summer<br/>
Garden, which is on the Great Quay, with-<br/>
in ten minutes' walk of the palace; he<br/>
takes a stroll in the garden, and afterwards<br/>
continues his drive. On these occasions<br/>
he is frequently accompanied either by the<br/>
Empress or by his daughter, the Grand<br/>
Duchess Marie Alexandrovna, but on the<br/>
16th he was alone. In the garden, how-<br/>
ever, he met the Duke of Leuchtenburg<br/>
with his sister, the Princess Marie de Bade.<br/>
After walking, all three together, for some<br/>
time, they separated at about four o'clock,<br/>
and the Emperor went towards his CALE-<br/>
CHE, from which the police-officer in at-<br/>
tendance took his Majesty's cloak, and was<br/>
just helping him on with it, when a man<br/>
rushed forward from the crowd which sur-<br/>
rounded the carriage, and, drawing a long<br/>
double-barrelled pistol from under his<br/>
cloak, presented it point blank to the Em-<br/>
peror and fired at him from behind. For-<br/>
tunately, a peasant, by name Ossip Ivanoff,<br/>
who was in the crowd, saw the intention<br/>
of the assassin, and, giving him a violent<br/>
blow below the elbow, forced his arm in<br/>
an upward direction just as the pistol went<br/>
off, and the ball went over the Emperor's<br/>
head. This peasant, who is now an histo-<br/>
rical personage, came to the capital some<br/>
years ago to learn a trade, and was appren-<br/>
ticed to a hatter, and after serving his time<br/>
he became a journey-man in the same esta-<br/>
blishment where he had learned his busi-<br/>
ness. Till yesterday he was supporting a<br/>
young wife and child with the produce of<br/>
his honest labour, but he has now become<br/>
the founder of a noble family, and the<br/>
name of Kommissaroff will be transmitted<br/>
to posterity side by side with the proudest<br/>
names of Russia. It happens that the 4-16th<br/>
of April is St. Joseph's-day, the patron<br/>
saint of Kommissaroff (by which name he<br/>
is ennobled), who consequently asked his<br/>
employer for a holiday, and in the after-<br/>
noon left home with the intention of per-<br/>
forming his devotions at the little chapel<br/>
attached to the house of Peter the Great<br/>
near the fortress; but on reaching the Neva<br/>
he found the ice so unsafe that the passage<br/>
was prohibited, and he was obliged to<br/>
abandon his design; so walking slowly<br/>
along the Great Quay he came to the Sum-<br/>
mer Garden, at the gate of which the Im-<br/>
perial CALCHE was waiting, and as usual<br/>
a small crowd of people was standing near<br/>
the vehicle to see the Emperor as he left<br/>
the garden. Kommissaroff, who but a<br/>
short time ago was a serf, thought it would<br/>
be a pleasant thing to see the Liberator<br/>
on his name-day, so he secured a good<br/>
place in front of the crowd, and determined<br/>
to wait patiently till the Emperor appeared.<br/>
There was a shabby-looking fellow just<br/>
behind him, who constantly tried to push<br/>
forward, and evidently wished to get a<br/>
front place, but Kommissaroff resolutely<br/>
held his own and kept the intruder back.<br/>
But just as the Emperor came out of the<br/>
garden this man took advantage of the<br/>
movement caused by the presence of his<br/>
Majesty, and rushed forward for the pur-<br/>
pose of committing the crime which Kom-<br/>
missaroff so fortunately prevented. As<br/>
soon as the miscreant had discharged his<br/>
weapon he attempted to escape, but he was<br/>
immediately seized by the people, who<br/>
were so enraged that they seemed deter-<br/>
mined to execute summary justice upon<br/>
him on the spot. When the Emperor<br/>
heard the report of the pistol and the ex-<br/>
clamation of the policeman, his first idea<br/>
was that some one had committed suicide,<br/>
but when he turned round and saw what<br/>
was going on he understood the great dan-<br/>
ger he had escaped. His first care was to<br/>
pacify the crowd, and to order the police<br/>
to take charge of the man, who, nothing<br/>
daunted, boldly accused the Emperor of<br/>
having deceived the people, and then turn-<br/>
ing to the crowd he called them his broth-<br/>
ers, reproached them for ill-treating him,<br/>
and told them that it was for them he had<br/>
incurred so great a risk. He was imme-<br/>
diately taken off to the central office, and<br/>
the Emperor drove to the Cathedral of Our<br/>
Lady of Cazan to return thanks for the<br/>
Divine protection which had been vouch-<br/>
safed to him. The news spread with won-<br/>
derful rapidity. On his return to the pa-<br/>
lace the Emperor found an immense crowd<br/>
waiting for his arrival, who received him<br/>
with the most joyful acclamations. The<br/>
Council of the Empire, then sitting in the<br/>
palace, came at once to offer their congra-<br/>
tulations. In a short time all the high<br/>
dignitaries, both civil and military, and<br/>
every one having the right to enter the<br/>
palace, crowded to manifest their joy at<br/>
his Majesty's escape. On returning thanks<br/>
for their expressions of devotion to his<br/>
person, his Majesty said he had no fear of<br/>
assassination, for he felt sure that the Al-<br/>
mighty would protect his life as long as he<br/>
could be useful to his country. After din-<br/>
ner there was a TE DEUM in the palace<br/>
church, at which all the Imperial family<br/>
were present, as well as those persons more<br/>
immediately attached to the person of the<br/>
Emperor. On leaving the chapel the Em-<br/>
peror expressed a wish to see Kommissar-<br/>
off, who was immediately presented, and,<br/>
after cordially embracing him, his Majesty<br/>
told him that he should henceforth take<br/>
rank amongst his nobility. The hall in<br/>
which this took place was crowded with<br/>
the first nobles of the land, who by their<br/>
acclamations expressed their approbation<br/>
of the favour which the Emperor had con-<br/>
ferred on the man who had been the means<br/>
of saving his life. As Kommissaroff is on-<br/>
ly 25 years of age, he may perhaps acquire<br/>
sufficient polish to enable him worthily to<br/>
wear his new dignity. At eight o'clock in<br/>
the evening the bells of all the churches<br/>
summoned the people to prayers; the whole<br/>
town was illuminated, and the National<br/>
Anthem was sung at all the theatres. At<br/>
the Russian Theatre the enthusiasm was<br/>
so great, and the anthem was repeated so<br/>
often, that it was nearly nine o'clock be-<br/>
fore the curtain rose for the regular per-<br/>
formance, which should have begun at<br/>
seven. This morning, at eleven o'clock,<br/>
thanksgivings were offered up in all the<br/>
public schools, and deputations have been<br/>
received at the palace all day long. At<br/>
four o'clock this afternoon there was a TE<br/>
DEUM near the gate of the Summer Gar-<br/>
den, on the spot where the attempt was<br/>
made yesterday. The police are quite<br/>
at fault; they do not seem to know what<br/>
to make of their prisoner, but they have<br/>
sent his photograph all over the empire,<br/>
so they will probably soon find out who he<br/>
is. From his manner of expressing him-<br/>
self he has evidently received some educa-<br/>
tion, though he is dressed like one of the<br/>
lower orders. He merely says that he is<br/>
a Russian, from one of the southern pro-<br/>
vinces, that he was educated at a public<br/>
school, and that he has no fixed place of<br/>
residence. He is most likely one of those<br/>
half-educated men of whom there are so<br/>
many in Russia, who possess the crude<br/>
notions on social liberty and political<br/>
equality, who attack everything that is<br/>
established, and everything that is sacred,<br/>
without having the slightest idea of what<br/>
they would give us instead of what they<br/>
wish to destroy. These men are called<br/>
Nihilists, because they believe in nothing,<br/>
and though it is the fashion to treat them<br/>
with contempt there is no doubt that they
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued on last page.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
June 28th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The European War.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having been favored by a friend<br/>
with the loan of two late numbers of<br/>
The Home News up to May 3rd and<br/>
May 10th, brought from Singapore by<br/>
the Schr. Erin on the 24th inst., we<br/>
have copied largely from them in this<br/>
day's issue, as the European news they<br/>
bring is to us intensely interesting.<br/>
The latest number is filled with the<br/>
subject of the impending war be-<br/>
tween Prussia and Austria. Our rea-<br/>
ders we think will feel forced to the<br/>
painful conclusion that Europe is now<br/>
very likely shaken from centre to cir-<br/>
cumference by the collision of the ar-<br/>
mies of Prussia, France, and Italy on<br/>
the one hand; and the armies of Aus-<br/>
tria, several of the smaller German<br/>
states, and Russia on the other; and<br/>
that consequently thousands on thous-<br/>
ands of precious lives have ere this<br/>
been sacrificed on battle fields. We see<br/>
but one hope that those tremen-<br/>
dous billows have been lulled down<br/>
without much loss of life, and that is,<br/>
that the autograph letter of the Em-<br/>
peror of Russia to the king of Prussia<br/>
giving him to understand that if the<br/>
war shall indeed begin, he shall feel<br/>
compelled to send his armies in de-<br/>
fense of several of the German states,<br/>
to which he sustains a family relationship<br/>
by some of their chief princes. It may<br/>
be that Prussia and her allies will be<br/>
startled by this warning, coming as it<br/>
does from so powerful a monarch, and<br/>
will prefer, in view of it, to make some<br/>
retrograde movement. This warning,<br/>
it will be observed, is not merely in<br/>
words but with the fact that 'Russia<br/>
is arming on a vast scale' to make<br/>
herself ready to carry out her settled<br/>
purpose, and we may rest assured that<br/>
she has come down into central Europe<br/>
with a mighty hand, if the war has<br/>
broken out, and that ere this tremendous<br/>
fighting has taken place. We cannot<br/>
see that Prussia has any adequate cause<br/>
for making war against Austria, and<br/>
we think that the trio of power which<br/>
she has managed to array against her<br/>
antagonist so far from adding to her<br/>
glory in the end, will bring upon her<br/>
lasting shame and disgrace. She has<br/>
long been lusting for power and con-<br/>
quest. She would bring all Germany<br/>
under her sway in a mighty monarchy.<br/>
She may be swallowed up in one grand<br/>
German Republic. We think the signs<br/>
of the times are pointing to such an<br/>
event. May God speed the day when<br/>
it shall be fully accomplished. We<br/>
cannot help remembering that this<br/>
year 1866, is the year long looked<br/>
forward to by the church of Christ as<br/>
the one in which "the time and times<br/>
and dividing of time" of the prophet<br/>
Daniel, and the one thousand two<br/>
hundred and sixty prophetic years of<br/>
John the apostle are to expire, when<br/>
spiritual Babylon is to fall "and be-<br/>
come the habitation of devils." Who<br/>
can tell but that this war will be over-<br/>
ruled by the "King of kings" to fulfill<br/>
this sublime prophecy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 3.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose in this article to con-<br/>
duct our readers to the top of mount<br/>
P'ra Nakawn Kirree on whose summit<br/>
is situated one of the most beautiful<br/>
country palaces of His Majesty the king<br/>
of Siam. This palace is one of the<br/>
greatest objects of attraction in the vici-<br/>
nity of Petchaburee. You may see it<br/>
on a clear day without a glass, even<br/>
from the mouth of Maaklawng river, a<br/>
distance of twenty miles. From that<br/>
point of observation it looks like a<br/>
dozen or more very small cottages as<br/>
white as snow banks, with dark sur-<br/>
roundings, caused by the dense foliage<br/>
on the mount, and the lofty mountain<br/>
ranges in its rear, stretching far away<br/>
to the west and to the north. No<br/>
lover of nature having been shut up in<br/>
Bangkok for many months, where no-<br/>
thing like a mountain or a hill is to be<br/>
seen, can be ushered suddenly into<br/>
sight of that distant mountain scenery,<br/>
as he will be on a clear morning when<br/>
sailing out from Maaklawng river,<br/>
without feeling awakened into new<br/>
life. This vivification is one of the<br/>
great benefits of an occasional tour<br/>
to P'etchaburee, and the interest in-<br/>
creases continually as you sail across<br/>
the arm of the gulf on a pleasant day<br/>
towards that city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When you come to the royal landing<br/>
just below the country palaces of the<br/>
Siamese princes and lords, mentioned<br/>
in our last, from which there is a<br/>
charming road running west straight<br/>
to the palace-mount you cannot, if<br/>
there be any vivacity left in you, resist<br/>
the desire of having a brisk walk and<br/>
frolic at once to its foot, which is less<br/>
than a mile distant. The street is<br/>
elevated above the common level of<br/>
the paddy fields on either side two or<br/>
three feet, and kept from washing off<br/>
by a brick wall on each side, whose<br/>
top is even with the surface of the<br/>
road, and being neatly finished with<br/>
stucco, forms a very agreeable foot-<br/>
path on both sides. One side of the<br/>
street is at present occupied with a<br/>
rail-track with one lumber car to run<br/>
on it. This has been used a good<br/>
deal for wheeling sand and brick from<br/>
the river to the foot of the mount.<br/>
The car is always propelled by putting<br/>
human shoulders to the wheels. But<br/>
as one might imagine it to be one of<br/>
the first ever made by G. Stephenson<br/>
and consequently quite unwieldy, and<br/>
as the track was laid with flat bars of<br/>
iron spiked on wooden sills full of ups<br/>
and downs and snake heads, the poor<br/>
Laos who were assessed to run the car,<br/>
found it but a little better than a light<br/>
ox cart drawn by hand on the smooth<br/>
earth road. Indeed, they finally, as<br/>
we were informed, came to prefer the<br/>
latter mode; and many a time have<br/>
we seen them thus engaged working<br/>
hard, as did the Israelites in Egypt, at<br/>
their daily tasks. The reason why oxen<br/>
or buffaloes were not employed to draw<br/>
the cars seems to be, that they could<br/>
not be spared from working the paddy<br/>
fields, and therefore human muscle<br/>
and sinew must take their places.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Close by the side of the left hand<br/>
wall, a little below its top, you will<br/>
notice an iron conduit of European<br/>
manufacture extending from the river<br/>
to the foot of the mount, for the purpose<br/>
of conveying thither the pure water<br/>
of the river for the pleasure of His<br/>
Majesty and royal retinue when re-<br/>
creating on the mount. On the same<br/>
side you will observe a row of the<br/>
very graceful flowering tree with<br/>
slender limbs much like the weeping<br/>
willow. They are now from 10 to 15<br/>
feet high, and when as large as they us-<br/>
ually grow, will form a splendid range<br/>
not excelled by the best cultivated<br/>
elms which Europe or America can<br/>
produce. It was the original design<br/>
to have a row of these trees on each<br/>
side of the street, and they were ac-<br/>
cordingly planted; but from some cause<br/>
or other most of the trees on the<br/>
right hand have failed, and those which<br/>
have survived are so scattered as not<br/>
to show to advantage. We are glad<br/>
however, to learn that the king intends<br/>
to have the deficiencies in the row<br/>
made good. Two complete rows from<br/>
30 to 50 feet high in full scarlet bloom<br/>
would form a most enchanting arbor<br/>
to perpetuate the memory of His Ma-<br/>
jesty to many generations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The paddy fields on both sides of<br/>
this street are not particularly interest-<br/>
ing at this season of the year. Some<br/>
of them are carpeted with small grass<br/>
and young rice plants that have sprung<br/>
up spontaneously, and others are being<br/>
ploughed for a new rice crop. But<br/>
if you pass that way in the lat-<br/>
ter part of October, you will see every<br/>
field waving with growing rice in var-<br/>
ious stages of progress, some of a live-<br/>
ly pea-green a foot above the water,<br/>
some of a deep green a foot taller, and<br/>
some turning yellow for the sickle.<br/>
Here and there, scattered irregularly<br/>
about the fields, are palmyra trees<br/>
which afford a pleasing break to the<br/>
monotony of level paddy plantations.<br/>
These trees are of various heights, from<br/>
15 to 80 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Arriving at the foot of the mount<br/>
you will find a grateful resting place<br/>
on a royal seat of artificial marble un-<br/>
der the shade of a venerable tamarind<br/>
tree having for its neighbors other<br/>
grand forest trees among which are<br/>
several specimens of thrifty teak.<br/>
Turning to the right nearly due north<br/>
is a good carriage road two miles in<br/>
extent leading to a small mount called<br/>
Kow Looang, remarkable for its spa-<br/>
cious caverns lighted by natural sky-<br/>
lights from 90 to 100 feet above their<br/>
floors. A little short of midway on<br/>
that road, you will notice a little pile<br/>
of limestone rocks 50 or 60 feet high,<br/>
shot up by some volcanic explosion<br/>
innumerable ages since, and which<br/>
Buddhism has latterly crowned with a<br/>
white pagoda and furnished its base<br/>
with a few temple buildings. Turn-<br/>
ing to the left you will observe anoth-<br/>
er street more rural and romantic, pass-<br/>
ing to the south close by the base of<br/>
the palace-mount which crosses an-<br/>
other of the king's high ways some 200<br/>
rods distant and passes on and joins<br/>
another leading from the city to<br/>
mount two miles at the west. Just<br/>
in front of where you are sitting you<br/>
may observe the terminus of the iron<br/>
conduit where the king takes shower<br/>
baths and douches, spouting from the<br/>
mouth of a fabulous serpent. And al-<br/>
most perpendicularly to this, some 30<br/>
feet above, is a very tasty sala<br/>
in which His Majesty sits as a specta-<br/>
tor of cattle racing and other sports<br/>
on a beautiful lawn at the base of the<br/>
mount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The attractions upward are so pow-<br/>
erful that you can rest but a moment<br/>
where you are. The road is steep up<br/>
the mount but nothing like as it was<br/>
8 years ago, when there was no way<br/>
to an old pagoda on its summit, but<br/>
a single foot track by which we staved<br/>
through dense jungle, clambering over<br/>
precipitous rocks with the greatest<br/>
effort to get above the dead level of<br/>
the country as far as possible, that we<br/>
might have a good observation of the<br/>
promised land. We felt ourselves<br/>
richly rewarded then for all our trou-<br/>
ble. But now how much more is one<br/>
well paid for springing up the royal<br/>
road, neatly paved with brick and<br/>
guarded by a white stucco wall on the<br/>
lower side and most charmingly deck-<br/>
ed with God's own living bouquets. The<br/>
direction of the road is exceedingly<br/>
zigzag for the purpose of relieving<br/>
somewhat the steep acclivity. And<br/>
while the engineering exhibited in<br/>
laying it out, shows clearly that it was<br/>
far from being the most enlightened,<br/>
it nevertheless evinces that the Sia-<br/>
mese are an ingenious race, and cap-<br/>
able of being made, by no great<br/>
amount of teaching, a people of large<br/>
capabilities in the arts and sciences.<br/>
The road can be ascended on horse-<br/>
back or in light carriages drawn by<br/>
horses but not without great labor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As you ascend the mount you are<br/>
more and more charmed by all that<br/>
your eyes see near by and afar off,<br/>
and you are continually regaled with<br/>
the sweetest fragrance of flowers which<br/>
grow on herbs and shrubs and trees<br/>
all along the rugged way. The olian-<br/>
der flourishes there, and is always in<br/>
blossom. A native tree called lan<br/>
tom, leafless in the dry season, and yet<br/>
even then full of the sweetest and<br/>
most charming white and yellow flow-<br/>
ers, shed their fresh blossoms daily<br/>
along the way and among the cragged<br/>
rocks by which all the breezes of the<br/>
mountain are made delightfully spicy<br/>
and balmy. Mounting up this enchan-<br/>
ting way, while under such influences<br/>
you cannot but feel that your physi-<br/>
cal system is being already envigora-<br/>
ted by the freshness of the air you<br/>
breathe and the glorious change of<br/>
scenery you enjoy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As for ourselves we never take that<br/>
walk without feeling not only a rush<br/>
of blood to the head, but also a gush<br/>
of admiration which ever will have an<br/>
outlet by exclamations of wonder and<br/>
delight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we must not stop here only<br/>
half way up the mount to describe<br/>
what is best seen from the summit.<br/>
You look up and see the royal palace<br/>
on one of its peaks and close by it a<br/>
beautiful white observatory towering<br/>
some 20 or 30 feet above it. You are<br/>
filled with ardor to reach the very<br/>
best possible position in that observa-<br/>
tory for seeing all that can be seen of<br/>
the exquisitely exciting landscape in<br/>
every direction from that stand point.<br/>
You will run panting up to the base<br/>
of the palace, and then up three long<br/>
flight of stone steps which ascend out<br/>
side of the palace from one story to<br/>
another until you come to the royal au-<br/>
dience hall, a building entirely dis-<br/>
tinct from all others. It may be 80<br/>
by 40 feet in size, a brick building of<br/>
one story, quite tastefully plastered<br/>
with stucco outside, and finished in<br/>
European style. At the east and<br/>
farther end of this building stands<br/>
the observatory entirely distinct from<br/>
it, and in the most commanding posi-<br/>
tion possible. Out of breath almost<br/>
as you are, you will hasten to it not-<br/>
withstanding, and ascend the spiral<br/>
stairway within it, pulling yourself up<br/>
as it were, by the iron railing. What<br/>
shall we say of your emotions when<br/>
you come out into full view of all the<br/>
wonderfully unique and delightful<br/>
scenery on the mountain, on the vast<br/>
plains below in all directions for scores<br/>
of miles, the dark mountain ranges far<br/>
away at the south and the west and<br/>
the north, and the Gulf of Siam at<br/>
the east? We can only say that if<br/>
you are made of matter and spirit in<br/>
proportions like ourselves, and have<br/>
been taught by divine grace to see<br/>
and feel that all the works of nature<br/>
are but the work of your God and<br/>
Redeemer, and that God has indeed<br/>
"made all things beautiful in his<br/>
time" you will be enraptured with<br/>
the view, and your heart will swell<br/>
with confidence in the divine promises<br/>
that all you see, naturally so delight-<br/>
ful, is erelong to be made far more so,<br/>
when it shall all be inhabited by the<br/>
saints of the most High God to whom<br/>
it has long since been deeded in the<br/>
court of Heaven. We do not recol-<br/>
lect to have been in any other place in<br/>
all our travels where exclamations of<br/>
inexpressible pleasure crowd so thick<br/>
and so strong to the vocal organs as<br/>
in this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But having now fulfilled what we<br/>
set out to do, and brought our readers<br/>
to the top of a new Pregah, we will<br/>
leave them to their own delightful<br/>
contemplations until our next issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wats.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a previous article, I promised to<br/>
say something of the Siamese Wats<br/>
as religious, and literary institutions.<br/>
There has however been so much said<br/>
of them already, in the Bangkok Cal-<br/>
endars, and elsewhere, that it leaves<br/>
but little unsaid; still I suppose there<br/>
is no one who has never visited a<br/>
country where the Buddhist religion<br/>
prevails, who has ever obtained from<br/>
reading any thing like an intelligent<br/>
idea of a Buddhist temple. The in-<br/>
mates of these cloisters in Siam con-<br/>
sist chiefly of three classes, viz., the<br/>
priests, the nains or novices, and pu-<br/>
pils or look sit. There are occasional-<br/>
ly seen, too, a number of superannuated<br/>
females, with shaved heads and dress-<br/>
ed in white. These are however prin-<br/>
cipally objects of charity. The offi-<br/>
cers of the Royal Wats are generally<br/>
a chief officer called Samret Chow,<br/>
who has under him several others, as<br/>
a Palat, Samook, a Beideeka and the<br/>
Nai Mooat. The Samret Chow is ap-<br/>
pointed by the crown, and receives<br/>
twelve ticals per month from the roy-<br/>
al treasury, and ten Salungs addi-<br/>
tional for necessary expenses. The<br/>
others receive only about six ticals<br/>
per annum. The common wats have<br/>
seldom more than one chief officer,<br/>
who is called the Sóm p'an. I know<br/>
of no limit placed to the number of<br/>
priests, and novices in any particular<br/>
temple, but suppose it depends, on<br/>
the ability, and piety of the neighbor-<br/>
hood, in which the wat is situated.<br/>
The novices also wear a yellow cloth,<br/>
and range in age from seven to twen-<br/>
ty years. After the age of twenty a<br/>
novice can be inducted into the priest-<br/>
hood. This ceremony however is fully<br/>
described in the Bangkok Calendar<br/>
of 1863, and need not be repeated at<br/>
present. Persons however frequently<br/>
enter the priesthood, from the com-<br/>
mon walks of life, without passing<br/>
through the novitiate. The ceremony<br/>
in this case is shaving the head, eye-<br/>
brow, and beard, and bathing. The<br/>
candidate is asked some questions in<br/>
Bali, which he seldom understands viz.<br/>
"Are the authorities aware of this step, ?<br/>
or, are you entering the priesthood to<br/>
get clear of some government work?<br/>
Are your parents fully aware of it,<br/>
and have you their consent? Have<br/>
you a wife, and children, and have<br/>
you their consent? Having answered<br/>
the questions satisfactorily, a proces-<br/>
sion is formed and he is taken to the<br/>
wat, where he is invested with the<br/>
yellow robes and the full orders of the<br/>
priesthood. The shortest time any<br/>
one can remain in the priesthood is<br/>
three months, and no one can hold an<br/>
important office under government,<br/>
who has not spent at least that time<br/>
in the holy orders. Prayers are had<br/>
in concert every evening at the wats.<br/>
Many of the princes and nobles who<br/>
are engaged in government business,<br/>
and have little time to attend to reli-<br/>
gious matters, but wish occasionally to<br/>
have the benefit of a sermon, are ac-<br/>
customed to send for some priests to<br/>
come to their houses to preach. This<br/>
generally takes place at night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wats are also the only institu-<br/>
tions of learning of the country. They<br/>
are the common schools, and colleges<br/>
combined. There the male portion of<br/>
the country are taught their A. B. C.<br/>
and there they take their diplomas.<br/>
A father who has an acquaintance, or<br/>
friend, who is a priest in a wat,<br/>
can commit the education of his sons<br/>
to his care. Besides learning their<br/>
books, the boys are also a kind of ser-<br/>
vants of their teacher, paddling his<br/>
boat when he goes out. They are ei-<br/>
ther supported by their parents, or eat<br/>
the surplus rice of the priests. The<br/>
principle thing taught the common<br/>
pupils is to read, and write the Siam-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
language. This is oftentimes<br/>
however merely a mechanical affair.<br/>
Whilst we scarcely find a Siamese who<br/>
cannot read his own language, still we<br/>
find very many who do not read un-<br/>
derstandingly. These read fluently,<br/>
but know but little of what they are<br/>
reading. Most of them, too, write a<br/>
good hand, which they acquire by<br/>
practice in copying their native books.<br/>
Of science, of course, they are taught<br/>
nothing. They have the primary<br/>
rules of arithmetic, which they per-<br/>
form mentally. They seldom use fig-<br/>
ures in calculating, and when they do,<br/>
they rub them out as soon as they are<br/>
through with them, so that it is after<br/>
all a mental operation. When through<br/>
none of the figures remain, except<br/>
the result, and should that not be cor-<br/>
rect, the whole operation, has to be<br/>
gone over again. They are also some-<br/>
times taught to use the Chinese a ba-<br/>
cus in calculating. The schools there-<br/>
fore are generally schools of indolence.<br/>
The boys have generally some favor-<br/>
ite cocks, which they train to fight,<br/>
and also practice some of the minor<br/>
games of chance. There is nothing of<br/>
that educating the mind, that draw-<br/>
ing it out, and training it to think,<br/>
which we find in European schools,<br/>
and especially in the public schools,<br/>
in some of the northern states in the<br/>
United States of America. The priests<br/>
and nains[..] spend much time upon<br/>
Bali, and many of the wats have a<br/>
special Bali teacher, called a Barien.<br/>
The Bali, however, whilst it benefits the<br/>
mind in some respects, is of no use in<br/>
bringing out its thinking powers. It<br/>
is too much like the former custom in<br/>
European and American colleges, of<br/>
drilling young men continually upon<br/>
the “longs,” and “shorts,” whilst the<br/>
thinking powers were left to lie whol-<br/>
ly dormant. This practice, in many<br/>
of the American colleges, has chang-<br/>
ed. Whilst all proper attention is paid<br/>
to the languages, greater importance,<br/>
is laid upon those branches, which<br/>
tend to draw out the mind, and throw<br/>
it occasionally upon its own resources.<br/>
The idea that education is a cram-<br/>
ming process, has wholly exploded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a remarkable fact, that scholar-<br/>
ship is declining here. It is now ex-<br/>
ceedingly difficult, to find a teacher,<br/>
who can be relied upon in his own<br/>
language. This is probably owing to<br/>
the fact, that the influx of foreigners,<br/>
has thrown open more opportunities<br/>
for making money than formerly ex-<br/>
isted, so that young men do not re-<br/>
main sufficiently long in the priest-<br/>
hood, to become proficient in the lan-<br/>
guage. I had occasion not long since<br/>
to translate a document coming from<br/>
one of the ministers of government. It<br/>
was evidently dictated by him, and<br/>
written by one of his scribes. Very<br/>
many words were not correctly spell-<br/>
ed, so that even with a good teacher,<br/>
it was difficult sometimes to find out<br/>
what was intended to be conveyed.<br/>
The hiring of European teachers, to<br/>
teach the English language, by the<br/>
King, and others is certainly an im-<br/>
portant step, but if ever they are to<br/>
get anything like a general knowledge<br/>
of the sciences, it must be acquired<br/>
through the medium of their own<br/>
language.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Paper.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Is this foreign community dead and<br/>
buried that it has not a scrip of local<br/>
news or item on any subject to fur-<br/>
nish for the only local Newspaper they<br/>
have? Most certainly the stillness of<br/>
the grave reigns here in regard to this<br/>
matter. Has it come to this, that our<br/>
city readers have no desire to have<br/>
the Recorder live. We must frankly<br/>
say that we are much of the time<br/>
tempted to think so. We know well<br/>
that this silence does not happen from<br/>
want of talent to write. What, such<br/>
a large community of missionaries and<br/>
such an array of consuls and consular<br/>
assistants, and so many well educated<br/>
merchants and master mariners and<br/>
others with little or no talent with the<br/>
pen! Why, the thought is preposter-<br/>
ous. We frankly confess that we<br/>
alone have neither time nor ability to<br/>
gather sufficient matter of local bearing<br/>
for the weekly sustentation of our<br/>
paper. We have no money by which<br/>
we can employ a reporter who could<br/>
make himself in a good degree omni-<br/>
present for observation, and could fill<br/>
columns of the paper with interesting<br/>
items. To supply this lack we need<br/>
volunteer agencies from many quarters<br/>
of this metropolis and the country<br/>
whither Europeans and Americans<br/>
have gone to reside or travel. Such<br/>
agencies would give a wholesome<br/>
variety of matter, and with such food,<br/>
we feel confident, that we could make<br/>
our paper grow and thrive. But with-<br/>
out them it must remain lean and<br/>
dwarfish. We would hereby beg<br/>
therefore that our local readers will<br/>
wake up and exert themselves in<br/>
picking up items of news for us as a<br/>
gratuitous aid to our work, that it<br/>
may not famish and die for the want<br/>
of such support. Would it not be a<br/>
great shame to this community to suf-<br/>
fer the only local paper they have to<br/>
die and that from sheer starvation ! In<br/>
such a city as this of 400,000 souls,<br/>
there must be a world of news. Let<br/>
us all unite and see if we cannot draw<br/>
out much of it weekly.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Death.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this city, on the morning of the<br/>
27th inst. of Typhoid fever, Mrs.<br/>
Kobke, wife of Capt. F. I. L Kobke,<br/>
aged 27 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Deceased was a native of Denmark,<br/>
had been married only a few months,<br/>
and was but two or three weeks since<br/>
in blooming health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Card.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor-—Having been bereaved<br/>
of my dear wife by death, on the morn-<br/>
ing of Wednesday last, and having<br/>
buried her on the same evening, I de-<br/>
sire hereby to tender my best thanks to<br/>
her friends in Bangkok, for their kind<br/>
attentions during her short sojourn,<br/>
and illness among them, and for their<br/>
attendance on her funeral thereby<br/>
showing their best respects to her<br/>
mortal remains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. I. L. KOBKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn with much pain that one<br/>
of the men charged with stealing 53<br/>
catties from the royal Treasury by<br/>
burglary a few weeks since, died soon<br/>
after under the most horrible castiga-<br/>
tion, inflicted with the view to force<br/>
him to confess that he was guilty of<br/>
the crime; and that he persisted in as-<br/>
serting his innocence to his last breath.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is one of the many horrors of<br/>
heathenism and of a heathen govern-<br/>
ment. It is high time for the Siamese<br/>
government to put away forever such<br/>
horrid injustice and barbarity. She<br/>
may depend upon it, that if long con-<br/>
tinued despite all the light which now<br/>
shines upon her from Christian lands,<br/>
she will soon be crushed by the right-<br/>
eous judgments of Jehovah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our mutual friend His Royal High-<br/>
ness Krom Hlaang Wongsa tirst, we<br/>
learn, will not this year make a dinner<br/>
party for the Foreign residents of<br/>
Bangkok in celebration of his birth-<br/>
day on the 9th proximo as has been his<br/>
custom for many years. And the rea-<br/>
son is because he sustains now no offi-<br/>
cial relations to them, having been ob-<br/>
liged to retire from those relations by<br/>
ill health. We would anticipate His<br/>
Highness' next birth-day and wish him<br/>
a happy new year of his life and many<br/>
more in succession.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were much interested a few<br/>
days since in hearing a definition of<br/>
the word patience. An English resi-<br/>
dent asked his little daughter of less<br/>
than three years to tell him the meaning<br/>
of patience. She promptly replied,<br/>
“to wait a little bit." What old and<br/>
learned divine could have given a<br/>
better definition?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency CHOW PHYA KALA-<br/>
HOME the Prime Minister, left in the<br/>
“Volant" early on the morning of the<br/>
27th inst. for a trip to Pänatsänanikone<br/>
the province at the mouth of Banpa-<br/>
kong river. He was accompanied by<br/>
a large part of his family and English<br/>
secretary. It is understood that His<br/>
Excellency will visit Anghin before his<br/>
return with the view to forward the new<br/>
Sanatarium he is erecting there. H.<br/>
E. will return in time to receive his<br/>
mail by the next Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CHOW PHYA SOORIWONGS WRIYA-<br/>
WAT the only son of H. E. CHOW PHYA<br/>
KALAHOME left this morning on a trip<br/>
to Bangplassoi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KOON YING—-the head wife of H.<br/>
E. CHOW PHYA KALAHOME returned<br/>
from the old city a few days since and<br/>
brought good news of the progress of<br/>
rice planting in that province. The<br/>
paddy fields were generally suffici-<br/>
ently watered for the work, and in some<br/>
localities there was too much water.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The King of Siam on reading from<br/>
some European paper, that the Pope<br/>
had lately suffered the loss of some<br/>
precious jewels, in consequence of a<br/>
thief having got possession of His Ho-<br/>
liness' keys, exclaimed, What a man!<br/>
professing to keep the keys of heaven<br/>
and cannot even keep his own keys!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that His Majesty<br/>
the king has appropriated the sum of<br/>
one hundred catties for the improve-<br/>
ment of the new road on the eastern<br/>
side of the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The funeral ceremonies for H. Roy-<br/>
al Highness Prince Charo'ne-Roong-<br/>
Rasi are now coming off, and the cre-<br/>
mation will take place to-morrow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed that His<br/>
Majesty the king refused to comply<br/>
with the request of the English court<br/>
at Maulmain for an authentication of<br/>
the seal of P'râya P'oo-t’ara-p'ie the<br/>
Prime Minister for Northern Siam.<br/>
Report says, that His Majesty felt per-<br/>
plexed at the anomoly of the case and<br/>
had it under discussion many days by<br/>
the government, and finally came to<br/>
the decision that the government had<br/>
no precedent for complying with it, and<br/>
then sent the messengers back to Maul-<br/>
main.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Home News
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LONDON, THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from the Continent this<br/>
morning increases the chances of war. It<br/>
is difficult, indeed, to comprehend by<br/>
what ingenuity, or through what influ-<br/>
ence, hostilities can now be averted.<br/>
Prussia has again displayed her determi-<br/>
nation not to give way to the suggestions<br/>
of reason, and has again shown that the<br/>
only effect upon her of the wise modera-<br/>
tion of others is to intensify her own in-<br/>
tolerance. In answer to the last Austrian<br/>
note she has repeated her former threats,<br/>
persisting in the assertion that the pre-<br/>
parations in Venetia, apparently aimed at<br/>
Italy, are really directed against her, and<br/>
insisting unconditionally upon their aban-<br/>
donment. The course she has adopted<br/>
towards Saxony is exactly that which we<br/>
have ventured elsewhere to anticipate.<br/>
She menaces Saxony with immediate<br/>
measures in the last report, if she does<br/>
not disarm, and Saxony justifies her<br/>
armaments on the ground that she is lia-<br/>
ble to be called upon by the Federal<br/>
Diet to provide a contingent. Thus with-<br/>
in Germany all is confusion and violence,<br/>
nor does a gleam of likelihood of a peace-<br/>
ful settlement appear anywhere.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Outside Germany the symptoms of a<br/>
coming war are no less ominous. Italy<br/>
is openly arming. She is strengthening<br/>
her resources by all availed means, and<br/>
does not pretend to disguise her object.<br/>
Nobody believes that she would adopt<br/>
so hazardous a course unless she were<br/>
powerfully supported, and the story of<br/>
a secret alliance with Prussia gains<br/>
ground every day. But Italy would not<br/>
move without the sanction of France,<br/>
and it is becoming more and more clear<br/>
that France, Italy, and Prussia are likely<br/>
to act in concert should a war break out.<br/>
It is stated that there are four regiments<br/>
of infantry ECHELONNED between Mar-<br/>
seilles and Nice. What are they doing<br/>
there? And in the event of hostilities,<br/>
what is the nature of the arrangement<br/>
Prussia has entered into with France?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
General Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That war is impending—that it cannot<br/>
be averted—-is the universal conviction<br/>
throughout Europe. The Earl of Claren-<br/>
don says that there are one million of men<br/>
arming on the Continent; and the Em-<br/>
peror Napoleon has spoken a few words<br/>
at Auxerre which are considered in France<br/>
conclusive of immediate war. When the<br/>
Emperor, chafed by the speech of M.<br/>
Thiers, declares publicly that he holds in<br/>
detestation those “treaties of 1815, which<br/>
it is now desired to make the basis of our<br/>
foreign policy,” the people know what to<br/>
look for. The panic produced by these<br/>
words in Paris is said to be unprecedent-<br/>
ed. It cannot be exaggerated. It amount-<br/>
ed to dismay, not unmixed with indigna-<br/>
tion. This is exactly the atmosphere in<br/>
which the Emperor luxuriates, as petrels<br/>
may be supposed to delight in a storm.<br/>
It is said that the ministers have not been<br/>
consulted on this occasion, and there is<br/>
some talk of their resignation. But what-<br/>
ever the Emperor has resolved upon is<br/>
not likely to be affected by the opinions<br/>
of his ministers. He has raised a tempest;<br/>
but nobody can doubt that he had first<br/>
fully prepared for the consequences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All uncertainty as to the probable dis-<br/>
tribution of the Powers in the coming<br/>
struggle seems to be over. The arma-<br/>
ments in Italy never could have gone on<br/>
without the sanction and connivance of<br/>
France; and France would never have<br/>
connived at such a proceeding without a<br/>
guarantee of advantages for herself of<br/>
some kind. It is now asserted that the<br/>
project of the Italian government for a<br/>
reduction of expenditure, some two or<br/>
three months ago, was disapproved of by<br/>
France, who desired that, whatever was<br/>
reduced, the army should not be diminish-<br/>
ed. The result is now at hand. France,<br/>
Italy, and Prussia have entered into an<br/>
understanding, perhaps something more;<br/>
and from the moment when the first blow<br/>
is struck, they will be found banded to-<br/>
gether. Italy is bristling with arms. The<br/>
volunteers are coming forward to the aid<br/>
of government; and the utmost enthu-<br/>
siasm prevails. Garibaldi and Prim are<br/>
to hold commands, and the scale upon<br/>
which the military dispositions are being<br/>
laid down indicates operations of no or-<br/>
dinary magnitude.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a strange state of things that this<br/>
war should be undertaken entirely against<br/>
the will of the peoples who are to furnish<br/>
the material for it. The Prussians are<br/>
utterly opposed to it. They recognize<br/>
alike its criminality and its wantonness;<br/>
and have protested against it at public<br/>
meetings, in petitions to the sovereign,<br/>
and through the voice of the legislature,<br/>
but in vain. Austria, Saxony, and Bavaria<br/>
are forced into it. Prussia has refused<br/>
the constitutional arbitrament urged upon<br/>
her by Austria, and, under the shallow<br/>
pretence that Austria assumed an attitude<br/>
of menace towards her, she persists in<br/>
fighting, notwithstanding that her op-<br/>
ponent continues to disclaim all aggres-<br/>
sive intentions. The result, whatever it<br/>
may be, must be, more or less, disastrous<br/>
to Germany. Her solidity as a federation<br/>
will, probably, be broken up, and Austria<br/>
will in all likelihood lose her ascendancy.<br/>
What share France will have in the spoils,<br/>
remains to be seen; but if the treaties of<br/>
1815 are to be treated as waste paper, an<br/>
extensive disturbance of existing settle-<br/>
ments may be anticipated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the midst of the breathless suspense<br/>
of these affairs, an attempt has been made<br/>
to assassinate Count Bismarck, who with<br/>
great promptitude seized his assailant, a<br/>
young political fanatic, said to be a step-<br/>
son of the distinguished exile, Karl Blind.<br/>
This mad enthusiast has since expiated<br/>
his guilt by committing suicide in prison.<br/>
There never was a more illogical proceed-<br/>
ing than that of assassinating an obnoxious<br/>
minister. The only effect it has is to in-<br/>
vest the intended victim with an interest<br/>
which he could never otherwise acquire,<br/>
and to secure him a place in history to<br/>
which he could not otherwise have be-<br/>
come entitled. In consequence of this<br/>
foolish and dastardly attack, Bismarck<br/>
has suddenly become the hero of the hour.<br/>
He is waited upon by sympathizing crowds,<br/>
and receives public ovations from a people<br/>
who detest him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prince Frederick Charles will take the<br/>
chief command of the Prussian army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Russian ambassador at Berlin has<br/>
presented to the King of Prussia an<br/>
autograph letter of the Emperor of Russia,<br/>
in which reference is made to the family<br/>
relations existing between the emperor<br/>
and the various German princely families,<br/>
whose existence he would be forced to<br/>
defend should it be threatened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All hopes of the preservation of peace<br/>
are abandoned, and war is now believed<br/>
to be unavoidable. Great uneasiness has<br/>
been created in Vienna by the speech of<br/>
the Emperor Napoleon to the Mayor of<br/>
Auxerre. The goods traffic on the North-<br/>
ern Railway will shortly be stopped. In<br/>
the event of war the Archduke Carl Lud-<br/>
wig will go to the Tyrol, where he will<br/>
superintend the formation of rifle corps.<br/>
All the passes of the Tyrol are now de-<br/>
fended by artillery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Berlin 'Provinzial Correspondenz'<br/>
of yesterday, in announcing the mobilisa-<br/>
tion of all the Prussian army corps, says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The nation may be assured that the<br/>
Prussian government is still willing to<br/>
maintain peace, if that can be done with<br/>
honour and with a due regard to Prussian<br/>
interests. The government, however,<br/>
owes it to the country not to allow it in<br/>
any way to be doubted that, if it must<br/>
be, Prussia is determined to come for-<br/>
ward sword in hand, and in the most for-<br/>
cible and decided manner, to maintain<br/>
those interests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A serenade has taken place before the<br/>
residence of Count Bismarck, in celebra-<br/>
tion of his recent escape from the hands<br/>
of the assassin. About 2000 persons<br/>
were present, to whom Count Bismarck,<br/>
in expressing his thanks, said, "We are<br/>
all ready to die for King and Fatherland,<br/>
let it be on the pavement of the street or<br/>
on the battlefield. Our common feeling<br/>
finds its best expression in the cry of<br/>
'Long live the King!'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Highness the 'Tunnongong of Jo-<br/>
hore' (the first Malay prince to visit Eu-<br/>
rope) and suite have arrived in London.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraphic Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Franchise Bill has been carried in<br/>
the House of Commons by a majority of<br/>
5. Ministers have not accepted this re-<br/>
sult as a defeat, and have announced<br/>
their intention of proceeding with the<br/>
Redistribution of Seats Bill, and the bills<br/>
for Scotland and Ireland, on the 7th of<br/>
May.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American minister at Vienna has<br/>
been instructed by his government to de-<br/>
mand his passports should Austrian troops<br/>
be embarked for Mexico, in which event<br/>
the Austrian minister at Washington will<br/>
receive his credentials.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Another steamer had arrived at New<br/>
York with cholera on board.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported from Mexico that the<br/>
French had suffered defeat with great<br/>
loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has<br/>
brought in a bill for the redistribution of<br/>
seats in England, by which small bor-<br/>
oughs are to be enlarged by being group-<br/>
ed with others, new constituencies to be<br/>
created, and additions to be made to the<br/>
county and borough representation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lord-Advocate has brought in a<br/>
Franchise Bill for Scotland, reducing the<br/>
borough franchise to £7, and the county<br/>
to £14 occupation, and property with re-<br/>
sidence to £5.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Chichester Fortescue has brought<br/>
in a Reform Bill for Ireland, reducing<br/>
the borough franchise to £6, and creat-<br/>
ing a lodging and savings-bank franchise.<br/>
Three new seats are to be created, and<br/>
the boundaries of several small boroughs<br/>
to be enlarged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from Germany and Italy is<br/>
more warlike. Prussia, Austria, and Italy<br/>
are bringing up their armies to a war<br/>
standard, and Austrian troops are con-<br/>
centrating on the Bohemian and Silesian<br/>
frontiers. The country round Mantua<br/>
has been inundated by Austrian engi-<br/>
neers, and Peschiera and Legnano have<br/>
been strengthened. Prince Frederick<br/>
Charles is to take the chief command of<br/>
the Prussian army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon in a speech at<br/>
Auxerre has expressed detestation of the<br/>
treaties of 1815. This has produced a<br/>
feeling of dismay in France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Volunteering is going forward with<br/>
great enthusiasm in Italy. The Nation-<br/>
al Guard have offered their services.<br/>
General Prim is to have a command in<br/>
the army. General Garibaldi has been<br/>
called by royal decree to a command of<br/>
twenty battalions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the small German States have<br/>
declared their intention to join Austria<br/>
in the event of war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor of Russia has intimated<br/>
to Prussia that, if war breaks out, he will<br/>
be obliged, by family relations, to sup-<br/>
port several of the German provinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An attempt has been made to assas-<br/>
sinate Count Bismarck, by a stepson of<br/>
Karl Blind. The would-be assassin has<br/>
since committed suicide.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenians, who had collected along<br/>
the New Brunswick frontier, with a view<br/>
to the invasion of that province, have<br/>
entirely dispersed. The Fenian move-<br/>
ment in America is considered to have<br/>
completely collapsed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great fire has occurred in Glasgow,<br/>
resulting in an immense destruction of<br/>
property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A speech delivered on the present war<br/>
crisis by M. Thiers in the Corps Legis-<br/>
latif has produced a great impression<br/>
both in the Chamber and on the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Russia is arming on<br/>
a vast scale.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Danubian Principalities.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Anarchy in Roumania is said to be<br/>
daily assuming a more alarming character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government hesitates before the<br/>
coming storm, and seems to be doubtful<br/>
of its strength, and a variety of factions<br/>
have been formed for its overthrow. Of<br/>
these the most formidable is that of M.<br/>
Cæsar Boliak, a former supporter of the<br/>
ex-Minister Cogolnitohano, who advocates<br/>
a policy of 'union and a native prince'.<br/>
This party has now its recognized organ<br/>
in the press, the 'Trompeta Carpatilor,<br/>
in which a series of articles has lately<br/>
been published on the present policy of<br/>
the government, which are chiefly re-<br/>
markable for the extreme violence of<br/>
their language. Faithful to their princi-<br/>
ples, M. Boliak and the whole of his party<br/>
voted against the election of Prince Char-<br/>
les of Hohenzollern, notwithstanding<br/>
which the Government telegrams asserted<br/>
that the whole country was unanimous in<br/>
his favour.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was said that the House Judiciary<br/>
Committee had summoned a great num-<br/>
ber of witnesses to prove the complicity<br/>
of Mr. Jefferson Davis in the assassination<br/>
plot ; but, though cross-examination was<br/>
limited, nothing had been produced to<br/>
substantiate the charge. President John-<br/>
son had granted Mrs. Jefferson Davis<br/>
permission to visit her husband. A<br/>
Washington correspondent writes :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The office of the Attorney-General<br/>
is now entirely occupied with arrange-<br/>
ments for the trial of Jefferson Davis.<br/>
He will probably be tried in Tenessee, as<br/>
the President seems to prefer that State<br/>
to Virginia for the purpose ; but this<br/>
point has not been decide, and will de-<br/>
pend on whether it can be shown that<br/>
Mr. Davis was at Muffreesborough during<br/>
the battle of Stone River. W. M. Evarts,<br/>
of New York, has been retained by the<br/>
government to assist the Attorney-Gen-<br/>
eral in the trial, and it is said that<br/>
ex-Governor Clifford, of Massachusetts,<br/>
will also be intrusted with a part of the<br/>
business. Charles O'Connor and J. T.<br/>
Brady, of New York, Judge Read, of<br/>
Philadelphia, and a lawyer of Mississippi,<br/>
are to conduct the defence. Mr. Davis<br/>
will be arraigned before a circuit court<br/>
of the United States on a charge of high<br/>
treason. Mr. Davis has been gloomy of<br/>
late, and seems to anticipate the extreme<br/>
penalty of the law. Mr. Sumner, Mr.<br/>
Wendell Phillips, and Mr. Horace Greeley<br/>
are strongly opposing any such step as<br/>
his execution.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate had passed a bill admitting<br/>
Colorado as a State into the Union. An<br/>
amendment proposed by Mr. Sumner ex-<br/>
tending the suffrage to Colorado, without<br/>
distinction of colour, was rejected by 27<br/>
against 7 votes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Spain was semi-officially reported to<br/>
have requested the mediation, and agreed<br/>
to submit to the arbitration of the United<br/>
States in the complication with Chili.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Heavy crevasses in the levees on the<br/>
Mississippi river threaten the country<br/>
around New Orleans with inundation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Seventy-five additional cases of cholera<br/>
had occurred on board the Virginia since<br/>
her arrival in quarantine, at New York.<br/>
Twelve deaths took place on April 24.<br/>
The disease was assuming a milder form<br/>
and was decreasing. Dr. Slayter, the<br/>
Halifax physician who attended the pas-<br/>
sengers on the England, had died of cholera<br/>
at Halifax, where three other cases were<br/>
reported.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenian excitement was said to be<br/>
rapidly abating. Federal troops guard the<br/>
bridge between Calais and St. Stephens.<br/>
General Doyle had established his head-<br/>
quarters at the latter place. Coran Kil-<br/>
lian's movements were not known, but it<br/>
was reported that he was endeavouring<br/>
to organize a fishing company for the<br/>
purpose of bringing about, without a<br/>
breach of the neutrality laws, a collision<br/>
between the English and American on the<br/>
fishing grounds, in hopes of thereby<br/>
causing a rupture between the two gov-<br/>
ernments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was reported that the Roberts faction<br/>
will now make a desperate effort to secure<br/>
the support of the disaffected O'Mahonry-<br/>
Fenians by an immediate military demon-<br/>
stration against some point of the Cana-<br/>
dian frontier. Unreliable reports were in<br/>
circulation that the Fenians were gather-<br/>
ing at Ogdensburg, on the St. Lawrence.<br/>
A party of the Fenians from Eastport,<br/>
on the way from Portland to Boston,<br/>
mutinied against their officers. The<br/>
ringleaders were put on shore, and the<br/>
boat proceeded.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Memoranda.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An American paper, the 'Telegrapher,'<br/>
states that it is intended to apply electri-<br/>
city to Alden's type-setting machine, so<br/>
as to enable a person in Washington to<br/>
set type by telegraph in the offices of large<br/>
daily newspapers in New York.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Civil Rights Bill is the sixth in-<br/>
stance of the passage of a measure by<br/>
Congress over a Presidential veto; one<br/>
was under the administration of Mr. Tyler,<br/>
and four under that of Mr. Pierce.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Petroleum has been discovered in large<br/>
quantities in the island of Cuba. The oil<br/>
is the same as that of Pennsylvania.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The United States consul at Aspinwall<br/>
notifies his government that the rinder-<br/>
pest has broken out along the Panama<br/>
railroad, and that hundreds of cattle are<br/>
dying daily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters received in America from Port<br/>
au Prince mention a case of "Obeahism,"<br/>
where a party of several persons was dis-<br/>
covered feasting on cooked infants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Mormons have resolved to aban-<br/>
don the plan of emigration, and to fight<br/>
for predominance. An affray has occur-<br/>
red in which eight "Gentiles" were kill-<br/>
ed. Placards have been posted every-<br/>
where about Utah warning enemies of<br/>
Mormonism to depart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Voix' of Luxembourg gives the<br/>
following extraordinary account of ef-<br/>
fects produced by lightning during a<br/>
storm which broke over the village of<br/>
Bure a few days back:—"The electric<br/>
fluid struck a cottage, carried away the<br/>
roof, entirely destroyed the chimney, re-<br/>
duced the windows into fragments, and<br/>
broke into pieces the door and all the<br/>
furniture. Three children, who were<br/>
sleeping in an upper room, were projected<br/>
out of the house, they do not know how,<br/>
but escaped unhurt, while the bed on<br/>
which they were lying was completed<br/>
shattered. The mother and father were<br/>
in bed with two other children, one an<br/>
infant; the last-named was cast against a<br/>
wall and somewhat injured, and the moth-<br/>
er, who had got up, was struck dead in<br/>
the room while lighting a candle. The<br/>
husband and the other child only felt a<br/>
violent shock. The lightning then es-<br/>
caped through a wall and killed a cow in<br/>
an adjoining building."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A "mule rinderpest" prevails in Up-<br/>
per Louisiana and Mississippi. The buf-<br/>
falo gnats are killing off mules and horses.<br/>
On one plantation [?] on another 25, and<br/>
on others 20, were carried off in a single<br/>
night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'New York Express' says:—"A<br/>
wedding recently took place in this city<br/>
which offered convincing proof that all<br/>
the money had not been spent yet. The<br/>
bride was dressed in white satin, of<br/>
course, and point-lace veil. On her veil<br/>
her father pinned ten 1000 dollar green-<br/>
backs, and she was presented on her<br/>
wedding-day with 62 shares of Pacific<br/>
Mail stock. This is considered something<br/>
'sensible' by several lately married men,<br/>
who are reveling in an unlimited quan-<br/>
tity of napkin-rings, fish-knives, and salt-<br/>
cellars."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. Bismarck's name is likely to take<br/>
its place in the slang French vocabulary.<br/>
It appears that when a person is suspect-<br/>
ed of foul play at cards or billiards he<br/>
is said to "bismarquer," as equivalent to<br/>
"tricher," and the insinuation is resented<br/>
as an insult. So much for fame.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of the French completed<br/>
her 40th year on the 5th of May.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
have considerable influence over the rising<br/>
generation. The assassin is probably a<br/>
man of weak intellect, whose brain has<br/>
been turned by the shallow doctrines of<br/>
this sect, and indeed the manner in which<br/>
his criminal attempt was made is the best<br/>
proof of his folly."—LON. & C. EXPRESS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russia
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no end to the manifestations<br/>
of loyalty which the recent attempt upon<br/>
the Czar's life has called forth. Nor are<br/>
these demonstrations confined to the Rus-<br/>
sians. All the foreigners in St. Petersburg<br/>
have sent in addresses, prayers of thank-<br/>
giving have been offered up in the foreign<br/>
churches, and appropriate sermons have<br/>
been preached by all the Protestant cler-<br/>
gymen. At Moscow, the enthusiasm seems<br/>
to be greater even than in St. Petersburg.<br/>
The little churches of the ancient capital<br/>
could not accommodate a tenth part of<br/>
the people who crowded to the altars, so<br/>
a Te Deum was celebrated in the Krem-<br/>
lin in the open air. The merchants treated<br/>
the people, and threw silver amongst the<br/>
crowd. The Russian 'Gazette of St. Pe-<br/>
tersburg,' says that the marshals and de-<br/>
puties of the St. Petersburg nobles had<br/>
resolved unanimously to present Ossip<br/>
Ivanovitch Komissaroff, the peasant who<br/>
foiled the assassin's aim, with a holy<br/>
image, and to open for him a subscrip-<br/>
tion, to which all the nobility of the dis-<br/>
trict are invited to subscribe. The per-<br/>
manent deputations of the nobles waited<br/>
upon him to obtain his consent to be en-<br/>
rolled in the book of nobles. Komissaroff<br/>
gratefully accepted the offer, and in do-<br/>
ing so gave the following account of<br/>
what took place:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I do not know myself what strange<br/>
feeling possessed me when I saw that<br/>
man pressing through the crowd. I was<br/>
watching him, but when the emperor<br/>
came up he went out of my mind. All<br/>
at once I saw him draw a pistol and aim<br/>
at the emperor. I bethought myself that<br/>
if I rushed upon him he would kill some<br/>
one else, or, perhaps, myself, and with-<br/>
out more ado I struck up his arm. The<br/>
pistol went off, and after that I do not<br/>
recollect anything. I was as it were in<br/>
the midst of a fog, and when I came to<br/>
myself I saw a general, who embraced<br/>
me. I was taken to the palace, but I was<br/>
stunned, and it was an hour and a half<br/>
before I could speak."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apartments have been hired for him in<br/>
the Bouatze house. His family name will<br/>
be changed into that of Komissaroff Kos-<br/>
tromskoi, in memory of the province<br/>
which has twice furnished saviours to the<br/>
imperial house in a moment of danger.<br/>
He was obliged to show himself on the<br/>
stage of the Russian Theatre, and to re-<br/>
late what happened. He was invited to<br/>
a grand banquet at the English Club, a<br/>
society which, notwithstanding its name,<br/>
is purely Russian. It is said that<br/>
600,000fr. have been subscribed for him<br/>
in St. Petersburg alone, and that a pro-<br/>
prietor of Kostroma has offered him a<br/>
considerable quantity of land for the<br/>
purpose of enabling him to support his<br/>
new dignity. The emperor himself, says<br/>
a correspondent of the 'Nord,' asked<br/>
General Todleben as a personal favour<br/>
to direct the education of Komissaroff.<br/>
The Emperor of Austria has presented,<br/>
in commemoration of the event, a com-<br/>
mander's cross of the Order of Frances<br/>
Joseph to Komissaroff.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The St. Petersburg journals say that<br/>
the investigation into the attempt on the<br/>
Czar's life has shown that it was not the<br/>
act of a wild and single enthusiast, but<br/>
the result of a conspiracy, which includes<br/>
numerous accomplices belonging to dif-<br/>
ferent classes; consequently many arrests<br/>
have been made. In St. Petersburg, 20<br/>
students have been seized, 60 Poles, and<br/>
four high officials; and in Moscow 30<br/>
students have been lodged in gaol.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Avenir National' says that Rus-<br/>
sia is arming on a vast scale, and will have<br/>
a formidable army ready in a few days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Journal de St. Petersburg' of<br/>
May 8 publishes an article strongly sup-<br/>
porting the project of a Congress to set-<br/>
tle the pending European difficulties.<br/>
The article points out that neither Prussia,<br/>
Austria, nor Italy will commence hostili-<br/>
ties, and that a direct understanding is<br/>
unattainable between these Powers. Un-<br/>
der these circumstances a Congress would<br/>
be both 'possible and desirable.'—Home<br/>
News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Berlin an attempt upon the life of<br/>
Count von Bismarck was made at 5 o'clock<br/>
on the evening of May 7, as the count<br/>
was returning on foot along the Unter-<br/>
den Linden, after having had an audience<br/>
of the king. Upon reaching the Schadon<br/>
Strasse he was fired at from behind, by<br/>
a man who discharged at him two barrels<br/>
of a revolver. Both shots, however, mis-<br/>
sed the count, who immediately turned<br/>
and seized the man. In the struggle<br/>
which ensued between them the assassin<br/>
fired three more shots from his revolver.<br/>
Count Bismarck remained unhurt, with<br/>
the exception of a slight contusion. His<br/>
clothes were also burned by the nearness<br/>
of the last three discharges. The per-<br/>
petrator of the attempted assassination<br/>
was immediately arrested by the police,<br/>
and conveyed to prison, where, while<br/>
unobserved, he stabbed himself in the<br/>
throat nine times with a pocket-knife<br/>
having several blades. The physicians<br/>
declared the wounds not dangerous, as<br/>
no important artery had been severed,<br/>
and he was put in a strait waistcoat but<br/>
he died next morning. The intended<br/>
assassin was the son of Mrs. Karl Blind,<br/>
wife of the political refugee in London,<br/>
by a former husband, but has borne his<br/>
stepfather's name. It appears that he<br/>
was about 22 years of age, and was of a<br/>
very determined and moody character,<br/>
but none of his family had reason to sus-<br/>
pect that he harboured such a design as<br/>
that which he attempted to carry out.<br/>
He had been studying political economy<br/>
at Hobenheim, in Wurtemburg, and it is<br/>
thought that the course of political events<br/>
in Germany, combined with his studies,<br/>
has had the effect of unsettling his brain.<br/>
It is stated that the young man bore an excel-<br/>
lent character at the various schools and<br/>
colleges in which he has studied in Ger-<br/>
many, and that this character was also<br/>
maintained throughout a residence of<br/>
some duration in England. Whilst in<br/>
England he was a member of a volunteer<br/>
corps, and gained a prize at Wimbledon<br/>
by his good shooting.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rome.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The correspondent of the 'Debats' in<br/>
Rome says that all parties there are in<br/>
favour of war-—the Clerical, because they<br/>
hope to regain what they have lost; the<br/>
Liberal party, because they expect free-<br/>
dom, and because they think they cannot<br/>
be worse off than they are at present.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The emperor's speech at Auxerre and<br/>
the impending war are the principal sub-<br/>
jects discussed in the Paris papers. The<br/>
'Constitutionnel' of yesterday contained<br/>
an article, in which it denies that the<br/>
speech is an encouragement to the ambi-<br/>
tion of Prussia. The writer says :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The object of France is neither to<br/>
serve the ambition of Prussia nor Italy,<br/>
but to assure her own dignity and secur-<br/>
ity. The programme of France is known<br/>
and has just been repeated. It lies whol-<br/>
ly in these words—reform of the treaties<br/>
of 1815. Any enterprise not directed<br/>
towards this end will find her not indif-<br/>
ferent, but attentive, vigilant, and reso-<br/>
lute. The speech at Auxerre is not,<br/>
therefore, a compromise with the various<br/>
interests which are now agitating Ger-<br/>
many, but is a last appeal to the wisdom of<br/>
the signers of the treaties of 1815 on be-<br/>
half of the peace and security of Europe.<br/>
It is for them to consider if it would be<br/>
expedient to leave to the chances of war,<br/>
always uncertain and formidable, that<br/>
general reform which France wished to<br/>
see carried out in peace and by means of<br/>
a friendly understanding.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. Emile de Girardin, in his journal<br/>
'La Liberte.' devotes to the speech only<br/>
these two lines :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This speech requires no comment. In<br/>
France and Europe it will sound like a<br/>
cannon shot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Senator Gueronniere's paper, 'La<br/>
France,' says :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are profoundly devoted to the<br/>
cause of peace; but, under existing cir-<br/>
cumstances, our first duty is to tell the<br/>
truth to our readers, and we are con-<br/>
strained to say that, after the emperor's<br/>
speech, we no longer believe in peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE British Schooner "Erin"<br/>
of about 4,000 piculs carry-<br/>
ing capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel sails very fast and<br/>
having recently undergone exten-<br/>
sive repairs is now in first rate or-<br/>
der, and can be sent to sea without<br/>
expense. The "Erin" has turned<br/>
out 275 tons dead weight, and is<br/>
a very suitable vessel for carrying<br/>
general cargo. Having had new<br/>
yellow metal sheathing put on<br/>
last year, she may be expected to<br/>
run for at least two years, from<br/>
the present time. without any<br/>
large outlay for repairs or Stores.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For further particulars apply to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SCOTT & Co.
Agents for the Owner.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK JUNE 28TH 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.<br/>
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.<br/>
A. MARKWALD & Co.<br/>
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
