---
linkTitle: 'June 14th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 14th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 14th'
date: 2025-12-06T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 46
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, June 14th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 23.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Harvest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
("Bringing his sheaves with him."-Psalm 126.6.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The time for toil is past, and night is<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent3 >}}come;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The last and saddest of the harvest eve;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Worn out with labor, long and wearisome,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Drooping and faint, reapers hasten home—<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Each laden with his sheaves.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Lost of the laborers, thy feet I gain,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Lord of the harvest, and my spirit<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}grieves<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That I am burdened, not so much with<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}grain,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As with a heaviness of heart and brain;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Master, behold my sheaves.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Few, light and worthless, yet their trifling<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}weight<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Through all my frame a weary aching<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}leaves;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For long I struggled with my hapless fate,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And stayed and toiled till it was dark and<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}late;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Yet these are all my sheaves.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Full well I know I have more tares than<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}wheat,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Brambles and flowers; dry sticks and<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}withered leaves,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wherefore I blush and weep, and at thy<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}feet<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I kneel down reverently and repeat,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Master, behold my sheaves."<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I know those blossoms, clustering heavily,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With evening dew upon their folded<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}leaves.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Can claim no value or utility;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Therefore shall fragrancy and beauty be<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The glory of my sheaves.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So do I gather strength and hope anew:<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For well I know thy patient love per-<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}ceives<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Not what I DID, but what I STROVE TO DO<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And, though the full ripe ears be sadly<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}few,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thou wilt accept my sheaves.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
ATLANTIC MONTHLY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Montana Delegation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President had an interview on the<br/>
7th inst, with a delegation of citizens<br/>
from Montana, in which he declared:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Here let me say to you, in order to<br/>
disabuse the public mind, as far as it is<br/>
possible for an individual to do so, that<br/>
my political career is well nigh done—-<br/>
the sand of my political glass has well<br/>
nigh run out. If I were disposed to re-<br/>
fer to myself, I might trace my career<br/>
back to the log cabin ; then an alderman<br/>
and a mayor in a village ; then through<br/>
both branches of the State Legislature ;<br/>
then, for ten consecutive years, in the<br/>
national House of Representatives ; then<br/>
through the gubernatorial chair to the<br/>
Senate of the United States ; then Pro-<br/>
visional Governor, with a slight particp-<br/>
ation in military affairs ; then Vice-Presi-<br/>
dent, and now in the position I occupy<br/>
before you. And now, in this position,<br/>
if I can be instrumental in restoring the<br/>
Government of the United States, in<br/>
restoring to their true position in the<br/>
Union those States whose relations to the<br/>
national Government have for a time<br/>
been interrupted by one of the most gi-<br/>
gantic rebellions that ever occurred in<br/>
the world, so that we can proclaim once<br/>
more that we are a united people, I shall<br/>
feel that the measure of my ambition<br/>
has been filled, and filled to overflowing.<br/>
And at that point, if there be any who<br/>
are envious and jealous of honor and po-<br/>
sition, I shall be prepared to make them<br/>
as polite a bow as I know how, and thank<br/>
them to take the place I have occupied,<br/>
for my mission will have been fulfilled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In saying this, in the performance of<br/>
my duty and in response to the encour-<br/>
agement you have given me, I feel that<br/>
I am in a condition not to be arrogant,<br/>
nor to feel imperious or supercilious. I<br/>
feel that I can afford to do right ; and, in<br/>
so feeling, God being willing, I intend to<br/>
do right ; and, so far as in me lies, I in-<br/>
tend to administer this Government upon<br/>
the principles that lie at the foundation<br/>
of it. I can inform all aspirants who are<br/>
trying to form their combinations for the<br/>
future—-who want to make one organiz-<br/>
ation for one purpose, and another for<br/>
another—-that they are not in my way. I<br/>
am not a candidate for any position, and<br/>
hence, I repeat, I can afford to do right ;<br/>
and, being in that condition, I will do<br/>
right. I make this announcement for the<br/>
purpose of letting all know that my work<br/>
is to restore the Government, not to make<br/>
combinations with reference to any fu-<br/>
ture candidacy for the Presidency of the<br/>
United States. I have reached the utmost<br/>
round. My race is run, so far as that is<br/>
concerned. My object is to perform my<br/>
duty, and that I will endeavor to do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Let us, then, all join in this great<br/>
work of restoration ; and while we are<br/>
restoring and repairing the breaches that<br/>
have been made, let us also unite in the<br/>
work of making new States, and popu-<br/>
lating them with a people who are worthy<br/>
of the Government which protects them ;<br/>
and let those new State Governments be<br/>
founded on principles in harmony with<br/>
the great machinery devised by our fath-<br/>
ers. So for as regards any aid or assis-<br/>
tance that can be given here in the pro-<br/>
gress and in the consummation of this<br/>
great work of building up new States, as<br/>
well as in the restoration of all the form-<br/>
er States, you will find me a willing and<br/>
a cordial helper."–NEW YORK OBSERVE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France and Mexico.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Paris correspondent of the LoN-<br/>
DON TIMES gives a minute account of the<br/>
circumstances under which the Emperor<br/>
Napoleon despatched M. Salliard on a<br/>
special mission to Mexico. He was hur-<br/>
ried to the palace, when the Emperor<br/>
said he wanted him to set out without<br/>
delay for Mexico, with a message from<br/>
him to Maximilian. He was to tell Max-<br/>
imilian that he considered that he (Napo-<br/>
leon) had fulfilled all the obligations im-<br/>
posed on him, and that the time had now<br/>
arrived when Maximilian must depend<br/>
upon his own resources, without the help<br/>
of the French army. M. Salliard asked<br/>
for some credentials, but the Emperor<br/>
observed that there was no necessity for<br/>
any documents; all he had to do was<br/>
simply to represent to Maximilian the<br/>
conversation he had just had, and that<br/>
would suffice. He recommended M. Sal-<br/>
liard, moreover, to lose no time in setting<br/>
out for Mexico, but to depart by the<br/>
first steamer.—NEW YORK OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE KARENS. A long period had elap-<br/>
sed before it was known to foreigners<br/>
that any such race of people existed in<br/>
Burmah as the Karens. Though living in<br/>
large numbers and in considerable village<br/>
communities scattered all over the an-<br/>
cient empire of Burmah, they never<br/>
seemed to attract the attention of Euro-<br/>
peans. In the year 1828, During a visit<br/>
up the Salween river, the late Rev. Dr.<br/>
Judson met some of these people for the<br/>
first time. In the year 1830, they were<br/>
encountered up the Tavoy river by the<br/>
late Rev. Mr. Boardman. Almost with<br/>
his dying breath, Mr. Boardman gave over<br/>
charge of his faithful Karens to his friend<br/>
and successor, the author of the " Reli-<br/>
gion, Mythology and Astronomy among<br/>
the Karens."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. Dr. Mason of Toungoo has<br/>
labored most assiduously among this in-<br/>
teresting race for the last thirty six years.<br/>
He is a thorough master of the Karen<br/>
language, and the translator of a very<br/>
large portion of the Bible into the Sgua<br/>
Karen dialect. Dr. Mason appears to be<br/>
one of the most industrious of living<br/>
Missionaries. The more real hard intel-<br/>
lectual work he accomplishes, the more<br/>
he finds to do. A Committee of the<br/>
British Association for the advancement<br/>
of Science addressed Dr. Mason a series<br/>
of "Quæries respecting the human race."<br/>
Dr. Mason's name is not only very through-<br/>
ly known all over the United States of<br/>
America, but it is extensively known in<br/>
Great Britain and among the learned Sa-<br/>
vans of Germany. The London Tract<br/>
Society have printed and distributed<br/>
hundred of thousands of copies of a work<br/>
written many years ago by Dr. Mason<br/>
entitled " Ko Tha Byu, or the Karen<br/>
Apostle."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply to the Committee of the Bri-<br/>
tish Association our indefatigable Author<br/>
has written two Pamphlets, which are full<br/>
of information, concerning the Karens<br/>
with whom Dr. Mason is intimately ac-<br/>
quainted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the subject of the religion of this<br/>
tribe, it is stated, that the Karens pray<br/>
more and make more offerings than the<br/>
Burmese; but their only object in these<br/>
observances is to obtain benefits in the<br/>
present existence, principally health and<br/>
prolonged life, so they cannot be regarded<br/>
as religious, while the Burmese make<br/>
them to procure benefits in a future state,<br/>
and are therefore a religious people, though<br/>
by no means so moral as the Karens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Relative to the traditional belief of this<br/>
people, 'the Karens believe in the exis-<br/>
tence of one eternal God, the Creator of<br/>
heaven and earth, and have traditions of<br/>
God and the creation that must have been<br/>
derived from the Old Testament Scripture.<br/>
The following affords a specimen of these<br/>
ideas.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Anciently, God commanded, but Satan<br/>
appeared bringing destruction.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Formerly, God commanded, but Satan<br/>
appeared deceiving into death.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'The woman E—u and the man Tha-<br/>
nai pleased not the eye of the dragon.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'The person of E—u and Thanai pleas-<br/>
ed not the mind of the dragon.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'The dragon looked on them—-the<br/>
dragon beguiled the woman and Thanai.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They were beguiled by means of a<br/>
yellow and white kind of fruit. The<br/>
dragon is of course the serpent of scripture<br/>
and the fruit is the fruit of the forbid-<br/>
den tree, which Adam and Eve were<br/>
prohibited from using under the penalty<br/>
which followed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These ideas could only have been ob-<br/>
tained from the Mosaic account of the<br/>
creation and fall of man, as given in the<br/>
book of Genesis.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Sgua and P'ya Karen name of<br/>
God is Ywa, but the Bghais use a prefix<br/>
and say Ta-ywa, to this name Ta-ywa,<br/>
they attach long fabulous legends, which<br/>
appear to be of Hindu origin.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The word Ta-wa-yah is also a Burmese<br/>
word and literally signifies eternal. It<br/>
is always used as an adjective to qualify<br/>
the noun, Pya, as Lord, or God, where<br/>
the supreme Ruler of the universe, or the<br/>
true God is meant, in contradistinction<br/>
from those gods of the Buddhist system,<br/>
which were transient and passing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent4 >}}"Gaudama is drowsy,<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}He cannot save us."<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
In the first pamphlet Dr. Mason has<br/>
brought together an immense deal of in-<br/>
formation on the traditional belief of the<br/>
Karens. They are not idolaters though<br/>
they tolerate all sorts of absurd legends.<br/>
They look with contempt upon images of<br/>
their Burmese neighbours and use a coup-<br/>
let with reference to them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of a future state, the Karen ideas are<br/>
very confused indefinite and contradictory<br/>
says Dr. Mason. The tradition is a melee<br/>
of different systems. The American<br/>
Indians and the Karens appear to corres-<br/>
pond in their notions of a future world.<br/>
Their belief represents the future world<br/>
as a counterpart of this one located under<br/>
the earth, where the inhabitants are em-<br/>
ployed precisely as they are here. When<br/>
the sun sets it rises in the Karen Hades,<br/>
and when it sets in Hades, it rises on this<br/>
world." An illustration is given in proof<br/>
of this view of the case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A beautiful woman died and her hus-<br/>
band mourned her loss. He applied to a<br/>
prophet, or necromancer to restore his<br/>
wife to him. The dead woman was raised<br/>
according to the tradition, in the evening,<br/>
and she attended to her household work<br/>
during the night. She would fall asleep<br/>
in the morning and appear dead all day,<br/>
and revive in the evening and be a live<br/>
all night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Karens believe this world to be densely<br/>
populated with spirits. Each person has<br/>
his guardian spirit moving about by his<br/>
side by day and by night. Trees, rivers,<br/>
mountains and every living moving thing<br/>
has its attendant spirit. It is a sort of<br/>
defender, as well as a ministering angel.<br/>
The heart, the mind and the soul of man<br/>
are all embodied in one word.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some German critics, remarks Dr.<br/>
Mason, say that "Psyche in Homer signi-<br/>
fies only the breath and the life, never as<br/>
in the language of later times, the spirit<br/>
or soul, yet it goes to Hades and contin-<br/>
ues to live there. 'The Karen word is<br/>
La, signifying spirit or life. It existed<br/>
before man was born. It remains with<br/>
him until death, lives after the death of<br/>
the body, and for aught that appears to<br/>
the contrary, it is immortal. No moral<br/>
qualities are predicated of it. It is neither<br/>
good nor bad, but is merely that which<br/>
gives life to mortality.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Mason's metaphysical mind has en-<br/>
abled him to go deeply into the subtleties<br/>
of Karen metaphysics. He treats of de-<br/>
parted spirit, of ghosts, of witches and<br/>
wizards, of the rainbow and of the god-<br/>
dess of fortune, a notice of which interes-<br/>
ting topics, we must reserve for a future<br/>
day.—-RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Never too Old to Learn.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are told that Socrates, at an extreme<br/>
old age, learned to play on musical instru-<br/>
ments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cato, at eighty-eight years of age, thought<br/>
proper to learn the Greek language.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Plutarch, when between seventy and<br/>
eighty, commenced the study of Latin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Henry Spelman neglected the sci-<br/>
ences in his youth, but commenced the<br/>
study of them when between fifty and six-<br/>
ty years of age. After this time he became<br/>
a most learned antiquarian and lawyer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ludovico, at the great age of one hund-<br/>
red and fifteen, wrote the memoirs of his<br/>
own time ; a singular exertion noticed by<br/>
Voltaire, who was himself one of the most<br/>
remarkable instances of the progress of<br/>
age in new studies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Accareo, a great lawyer, being asked<br/>
why he began the study of law so late,<br/>
replied that indeed he began it late, but<br/>
should therefore master it the sooner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dryden, in his sixtieth year, commenced<br/>
the Iliad, and his most pleasing produc-<br/>
tions were written in his old age.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Franklin did not commence his philoso-<br/>
phical pursuits until he had reached his<br/>
fiftieth year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ogilvy, the translator of Homer and<br/>
Virgil, was unacquainted with Latin and<br/>
Greek till he was past fifty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Colbert, the famous French Minister, at<br/>
sixty years of age returned to his Latin<br/>
and law studies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Boccaecio was thirty-five when he com-<br/>
menced his studies in polite literature, yet<br/>
he became one of the three great masters<br/>
of the Tuscan dialect—Dante and Petrarch<br/>
being the other two.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Oddities of Great Men.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest men are often affected by<br/>
the most trivial circumstances, which have<br/>
no apparent connection with the effects<br/>
they produce. An old gentleman, of whom<br/>
we knew something, felt secure against the<br/>
cramp when he placed his shoes, on going<br/>
to bed, so that the right shoe was on the<br/>
left of the left shoe, and the toe of the<br/>
right next to the heel of the left. If he did<br/>
not bring the right shoe round the other<br/>
side in that way, he was liable to the<br/>
cramp. Dr. Johnson used always in going<br/>
up Bolt-court to put one foot upon each<br/>
stone of the pavement; if he failed, he felt<br/>
certain the day would be unlucky. Buffon, <br/>
the celebrated naturalist, never wrote but<br/>
in full dress. Dr. Routh, of Oxford, studied<br/>
in full-canonicals. A celebrated preacher<br/>
of the last century could never make a<br/>
sermon with his garters on. A great Ger-<br/>
man scholar writes with his braces off.<br/>
Reisegg, the German critic, wrote his<br/>
commentaries on Sophocles with a pot of<br/>
porter by his side. Schybel lectures, at<br/>
the age of seventy-two, ex-tempore in<br/>
Latin, with his snuff-box constantly in his<br/>
hand; without it he could not get on.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Simple Honesty.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Above all things we should cultivate<br/>
honesty and simplicity, truth and faith-<br/>
fulness, in ourselves and all with whom<br/>
we have to do. Falsehood, fraud, and<br/>
subterfuge permit at no rate; be jealous<br/>
of wit and humor, and all equivocal forms<br/>
of representing things. I have sometimes<br/>
devoutly wished that I were so stupid as<br/>
not to understand a joke, that I were<br/>
honest enough to perceive nothing but the<br/>
falsehood of what the French call a JEU<br/>
D'ESPRIT or playfulness of mind. I tell<br/>
you, brethren, be honest in your dealings;<br/>
take no advantage even of a child. Be<br/>
conscientious in your bargains. Have a<br/>
single eye and a single heart. Seek not<br/>
to be shrewd. Be not ashamed to be cal-<br/>
led simple. And let me tell you a secret,<br/>
seeing it is written in the Scriptures, that<br/>
your whole body will then be full of light;<br/>
and this in every kind; you will actually<br/>
see farther, and see clearer than shrewd<br/>
and cunning men, and you will be less<br/>
liable to be duped than they, provided<br/>
you add to this another part of character<br/>
which is proper to an honest man—-name-<br/>
ly; a resolution to protect honesty, and<br/>
to discountenance every kind of fraud.<br/>
A cunning man is never a firm man; but<br/>
an honest man is; a double-minded man<br/>
is always unstable; a man of faith is firm<br/>
as a rock. I tell you, there is a sacred<br/>
connection between honesty and faith;<br/>
honesty is faith applied to worldly things,<br/>
and faith is honesty quickened by the<br/>
Spirit to the use of heavenly things. In<br/>
all that I have said upon this quality, I<br/>
have not said enough of it. I have but<br/>
given the clue to the proper way of dis-<br/>
coursing of it.-—Meanwhile, let me press<br/>
it upon you in the words of our old ballad,<br/>
"Tis guid to be honest and true,"—-ED-<br/>
WARD IRVING.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Facts about New York.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following statistics in regard to our<br/>
great metropolis have been prepared under<br/>
the direction of the New York City Mission<br/>
and approximate probably nearer the truth<br/>
than any that have been previously pub-<br/>
lished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Until we have the official returns of the<br/>
State census lately taken, we must rely on<br/>
the United States census of 1860, to fur-<br/>
nish the number of the people in New<br/>
York, which was at that date 813,669.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rate of increase for some time pre-<br/>
vious to the war, was five per cent. per<br/>
annum. How much this has been modified<br/>
by the extraordinary circumstances of the<br/>
period just passed we cannot determine,<br/>
and we have no room for speculations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of the population of the city in 1860,<br/>
429,952 were born in the United States,<br/>
and 383,717 were born in foreign countries<br/>
of forty-two different nationalities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number of marriages in the city in<br/>
a year is 8,282.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number of births in the city during<br/>
the year is 6,424.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number of deaths in the city during<br/>
a year is 25,193.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 54,335 dwelling-houses in the<br/>
city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 155,707 families living in the<br/>
city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are nearly three families on an<br/>
average to every dwelling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 15,000 tenant-houses, contain-<br/>
ing 486,000 persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The city taxes are $18,000,000 a year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The money spent in public amusement<br/>
is $7,000,000 a year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For the support of the police $2,000,000<br/>
a year is required.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
17,000 immigrants per month land at<br/>
Castle Garden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 380 churches, chapels, and<br/>
Missions of all kinds, with accommoda-<br/>
tions for 300,000 persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 276 Protestant places of wor-<br/>
ship, with accommodations for 200,000 per-<br/>
sons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 216 regularly organized Pro-<br/>
testant churches, with an average member-<br/>
ship of 300, which would give a total of<br/>
64,800 communicants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 350 Sabbath schools of all de-<br/>
nominations, with an attendance of 87,500<br/>
pupils.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
HOW TO DO PENANCE.—-A very corpu-<br/>
lent farmer was ordered, for penance, to go<br/>
three times round the churchyard of<br/>
Knockabegowna on his bare knees. The<br/>
Sunday on which the penance was to be<br/>
performed, a considerable crowd collected<br/>
to see “fat Halloran take to his marrow-<br/>
bones;” and, true to his order, Halloran<br/>
appeared at the appointed time, followed<br/>
by three stout men, one of whom wheeled<br/>
along an enormous wheelbarrow, in which<br/>
was a soft pillow. Deliberately unbutton-<br/>
ing the knees of his trousers and rolling<br/>
them up a little, while he turned down the<br/>
tops of his long blue stockings, Halloran<br/>
was helped into the wheelbarrow on his<br/>
“bare knees,” and amid the vociferous<br/>
cheers of the assembled people he was<br/>
wheeled the prescribed number of times<br/>
round the churchyard; when stepping on<br/>
the ground and re-adjusting his nether<br/>
garments, he called out, “That’s my good-<br/>
by to both priests and Popery;” and, get-<br/>
ting into his gig, drove off, leaving his men<br/>
to bring home the wheelbarrow at their<br/>
leisure.-—THE BIBLE CLASS MAGAZINE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"A KING DEAD." In the "Penang Ga-<br/>
zette" of the 27th January, it mentions<br/>
that intelligence had reached that island<br/>
of the death of His Majesty, the second<br/>
King of Siam, which melancholy event<br/>
took place in the Royal Palace at Bangkok<br/>
on Sunday morning the 7th January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His majesty was a younger brother of<br/>
the present reigning Sovereign of Siam<br/>
and was named Somdetch Phra Pawa-<br/>
raindr Mahisvara Mahisvaraisa Rang-<br/>
sarga Phra Pia Klow Chao Yu Hua. It<br/>
appears he intended to make a visit to<br/>
Penang some twelve months ago, but was<br/>
prevented by indisposition. His death<br/>
resulted from consumption. He was a lit-<br/>
tle over fifty seven years of age. He had<br/>
thirty one wives, by whom he became the<br/>
father of sixty three children, of whom<br/>
thirty only survived, the royal parent,<br/>
namely fifteen sons and fifteen daughters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On receipt of the sad news, the Consul<br/>
for Siam at Penang, had the Siamese<br/>
flag hoisted half mast high, and on the fol-<br/>
lowing day the British ensign on the Hill<br/>
and Fort together with the flags of the<br/>
different Consulates were similarly dis-<br/>
played in respect to the memory of the<br/>
deceased King.—-RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
'RESPECT OF THE DEAD' On Thursday<br/>
last, the Flag of the German Consul at this<br/>
port, was hoisted half mast high, from<br/>
sunrise to sunset as a token of respect for<br/>
the memory of the second King of Siam<br/>
lately deceased.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Similarly the British Jack was hoisted,<br/>
to half mast high on the Master Attend-<br/>
ant's flag staff on Friday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the King of Siam will thus<br/>
recognize the cordial sympathy felt by the<br/>
treaty powers, in these ports, to manifest<br/>
their respect for the loss sustained by the<br/>
Siamese Government in the death of the<br/>
late Royal Brother and second King.—-THE<br/>
RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE CASE STATED.—-PUNCH thus sums<br/>
up the ins and outs of the case at Wash-<br/>
ington, in an unusually clear statement<br/>
for an English writer on our affairs:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Were e'er out of the Union is sin.'"<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
"Says Johnson, 'To hold that the states<br/>
o' the South
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}There ain't no call for letting 'em in.'"<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Says Congress, 'Wa'al, guess if they<br/>
never were out,
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_1_19 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
GEN. GRANT, having moved into his new<br/>
house in Washington, is liable at any time<br/>
to be next-door neighbor to a negro; the<br/>
adjoining house being owned by Alfred<br/>
Lee, a sagacious and highly respected<br/>
black man, a flour dealer, and reported to<br/>
be worth $200,000. If the negro should<br/>
some day move into his own house, would<br/>
not some people be dreadfully shocked?<br/>
Gen. Grant, we presume, having led ne-<br/>
groes to battle, and, found them loyal<br/>
and brave, would still "fight it out on that<br/>
line," not caring a button whether his<br/>
neighbors were white or black.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
June 14th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PRESBYTERIAN MISSION PREMISES
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Petchaburee June 7th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The thought has just struck us that<br/>
perhaps we may interest and profit<br/>
some of the readers of the *Bangkok*<br/>
*Recorder* by giving them a sketch of<br/>
our journey to this place, as we can<br/>
weave into the discription important<br/>
information concerning the creeks,<br/>
canals and gulf we had to traverse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We left our residence in Bangkok,<br/>
near the upper Fort at 8 o'clock P.M.<br/>
on the 30th ultimo, in the Mission boat<br/>
“Sea Bird” belonging to Rev. S. R.<br/>
House M. D.,—-taking with us three of<br/>
our children. Our crew consisted of<br/>
five Siamese and Laos men, and one Laos<br/>
woman wife of one of the men, to serve<br/>
as a cook. We would have preferred a<br/>
lighter and fleeter boat for the inland<br/>
course we had determined to take, if<br/>
by any means we could shun the dis-<br/>
mal gulf, an [?] much of which must always<br/>
be crossed in going to Petchaburee.<br/>
As there never is any danger in sailing<br/>
across that arm in the “Sea Bird”<br/>
we had provided ourselves with it,<br/>
but failed of finding a man that knew<br/>
any thing about sailing a boat. For<br/>
various reasons we felt indisposed to<br/>
serve as captain ourselves. At too late<br/>
an hour we found, also, that our boat,<br/>
was not sufficiently ballasted to sail<br/>
safely in a squally time. We hence<br/>
judged it best to give up all idea of<br/>
sailing, as we could not probably sail<br/>
much under the best circumstances,<br/>
and we therefore lightened the boat by<br/>
taking out her mast and sails and leav-<br/>
ing them at home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We waited that evening until we<br/>
judged that we were within an hour<br/>
and a half of the ebb tide, which would<br/>
give us sufficient time to reach Bang-<br/>
bawn, where the tide waters of the<br/>
Meinam and the T'àcheen rivers meet.<br/>
It would be of no service to get there<br/>
before the change of the tide, because<br/>
we would be obliged to row against<br/>
the tide of the T'àcheen flowing up to<br/>
that place. The waters of the two<br/>
rivers which meet there, flow off to the<br/>
westward into a creek common to them<br/>
both. It is quite important for travelers<br/>
on these creeks and canals to make<br/>
nice calculations in regard to the se-<br/>
veral tidal junctions which exist on<br/>
this route to Petchaburee, if they desire<br/>
to be particularly expeditious in ma-<br/>
king the tour; for a failure to calculate<br/>
well will occasion the loss of from<br/>
twelve to thirty hours of time. These<br/>
junctions, being always on the highest<br/>
part of the route, the flood tides meet<br/>
from opposite directions; when finding,<br/>
generally, a tributary creek going off<br/>
from the main one, they flow in it<br/>
harmoniously together, until their force<br/>
has been spent far out in the fields and<br/>
farm canals, which daily wait for their<br/>
united blessing. And when the tide be-<br/>
gins to fall, that water flows back to the<br/>
junction, and turning, part to the right<br/>
and part to the left, runs in opposite<br/>
directions seeking each its own river as<br/>
water falling on the top of a rounded<br/>
boat cover, will seek the two opposite<br/>
caves. But there is never any percep-<br/>
tible difference in the hight of the land<br/>
at these junctions. The vast plains of<br/>
Siam through which her four large ri-<br/>
vers make each its serpentine way to<br/>
the gulf is nearly a uniform level like<br/>
the sea in a calm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our calculation were pretty well<br/>
made on this occasion as regards the<br/>
tidal junction at Bangbawn, having<br/>
reached the place a little before the ebb<br/>
tide commenced. We were, as usual,<br/>
hindered a little by a crowd of rafts and<br/>
boats near Bangbawn which were wait-<br/>
ing for the same ebb tide to help them<br/>
to the metropolis. The creek is very<br/>
narrow just before you arrive at Bang-<br/>
bawn, and is a great source of trouble<br/>
and loss to the multitude of business<br/>
men and other travelers who are ob-<br/>
liged to crowd through that narrow<br/>
way. It is passing strange that the<br/>
Siamese government, after all the pray-<br/>
ers that have been made to it within<br/>
the last twelve months from high and<br/>
from low, foreigners as well as natives,<br/>
cannot yet raise means or spirit enough<br/>
to enlarge this small place a little, and<br/>
thus very much improve this great<br/>
thoroughfare for all the western provin-<br/>
ces. To all foreigners traveling this way<br/>
we would say, that it is wise to plan<br/>
so that you will always pass Bangbawn<br/>
at or near the full tide when you may<br/>
hope to crowd your way through with<br/>
but little hinderance. But if you get<br/>
there when the water is rather low,<br/>
you may work, and fret, and scold<br/>
never so much, and it will all be of no<br/>
avail to your speed. You must then<br/>
wait the chances which scores of boats<br/>
and long rafts of timber may be pleas-<br/>
ed and able to give you while the tide<br/>
is slowly changing in your favor. This<br/>
place is distant 9 or 10 miles from our<br/>
residence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We made but little stop at this junc-<br/>
tion, and bid our men push ahead<br/>
during the ebb tide for Màhàch'ie on the<br/>
T'àcheen river, which is distant from<br/>
that place some twenty miles. Being<br/>
uncommonly wearied by our efforts all<br/>
day in getting ready to start, we soon<br/>
retired, hoping the boatmen who had<br/>
done but little would row us turough<br/>
by a favoring tide in good time to<br/>
take the early morning flood tide<br/>
to Màháwn. But on awaking early on<br/>
the morning of the 31st ult.,—behold,<br/>
we had made only 10 or 12 miles<br/>
of the twenty, and had now a tide to<br/>
stem besides. If our men had been<br/>
faithful they would have carried us<br/>
through without any extraordinary<br/>
rowing. We had before learned by<br/>
much experience, that a native crew<br/>
without the continual presence and<br/>
urging of their employer, can rarely be<br/>
trusted to keep the boat agoing in the<br/>
dead of night, even with a favoring tide.<br/>
But having no particular motive for<br/>
making a quick passage, and feeling<br/>
powerfully inclined to throw off all care<br/>
and drop into a state of utter forget-<br/>
fulness, we let the men take their own<br/>
way. On having obtained refreshing<br/>
sleep, and taken our post again as chief,<br/>
we felt it right to insist upon the men<br/>
rowing us to Màhàch'ie before break-<br/>
fast, and accordingly we reached the<br/>
place about 8 o'clock. We stopped at<br/>
the landing of a small temple on the<br/>
left bank of the canal, and breakfasted.<br/>
It was a delightful morning, the sun<br/>
being much of the time hidden by fleecy<br/>
clouds, and a brisk S. W. wind blow-<br/>
ing fresh and bracing over the salt<br/>
marsh two miles or more from the sea.<br/>
Marshy as it was, it gave us a grand<br/>
view of a wide expanse of the heavens,<br/>
and of God's pure ministers flying<br/>
through the midst thereof, and of the<br/>
wings of the wind on which Jehovah<br/>
rideth. We sat for a long while under<br/>
a charming p'e-tree all of whose leaves,<br/>
pure as those of the tree of life in the<br/>
garden of Eden, were chanting the<br/>
praises of their maker by their rustling<br/>
in the breeze. All we saw and heard,<br/>
even there, was inspiring to our spirits,<br/>
and most sweetly drew out our hearts<br/>
unto God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the tide had turned down before<br/>
breakfast, and as our course lay up the<br/>
T'àcheen river three miles to the town<br/>
of that name, and thence by a large<br/>
creek westward to Màháwn, it would<br/>
be hard if not impossible for our men<br/>
to row against the strong ebb tide.<br/>
We therefore determined to wait quietly<br/>
there 6 or 7 hours for it to change in<br/>
our favor. Hence we said to our men<br/>
go up into the sala and nawn tem to<br/>
(sleep to the filling of your eyes) pre-<br/>
paratory for the work you will have to<br/>
perform in the evening and night time.<br/>
It was at this place we discovered that<br/>
it would have been better for us to have<br/>
started from home a little before that<br/>
morning ebb tide than leave as we did<br/>
on the last evening, because it would<br/>
have brought us just in time to take ad-<br/>
vantage of the evening tide for whose<br/>
aid we were then waiting
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The distance from Bangkok to the<br/>
T'àcheen river via the Bangkok-yai;<br/>
the Bangloong creek, and the Màhá-<br/>
ch'ie canal is probably, not far from<br/>
30 miles. From 10 to 15 miles of<br/>
this course nearest the Màhàch'ie is<br/>
clearly a human made canal, evidenced<br/>
by its remarkable straightness and<br/>
uniform appearance. It is now from<br/>
30 to 50 yards wide, and was made,<br/>
if we recollect rightly, in the reign of<br/>
His present Majesty's grand father.<br/>
Much of the creek with which it con-<br/>
nects is exceedingly serpentine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The course of the whole 30 miles<br/>
to Màhàch'ie is for the first half, S. S.<br/>
W. and the second half, W. S. W. It<br/>
is a dreary way in consequence of the<br/>
great monotony of the banks of the<br/>
creeks and canal, and the uncul-<br/>
tivated prairie land through which<br/>
they pass, and the few poverty<br/>
stricken houses of the natives that here<br/>
and there come into view. It is a<br/>
region under the undisputed sway of<br/>
musquetoes which can be almost literal-<br/>
ly scooped up by hat-fulls. We once<br/>
spent a night on the route, when by a<br/>
little carelessness we got our musqueto<br/>
bars full of them, and we found it ut-<br/>
terly impossible to expel the blood<br/>
thirsty pirates. Indeed the more effort<br/>
we made to do so, the worse it be-<br/>
came, as the creatures would pitch upon<br/>
us in the act of getting under the bars<br/>
so that it was impossible to accomplish<br/>
it without a swarm of them adhering to<br/>
our persons and getting a berth with us.<br/>
We had to abandon the idea of sleeping<br/>
that night, and go out upon the roof<br/>
of our boat and fight our tormentors till<br/>
morning. But the most beautiful<br/>
display of fireflies on the trees was a<br/>
kind of compensation for our loss of<br/>
sleep. We cannot now stop to give a<br/>
description of the fortified town of<br/>
Māhāch'ie and of the custom office<br/>
there. We hope to do this at some<br/>
future time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the water in the canal in which we<br/>
were moored was getting low and the<br/>
air close, we moved, a little after noon,<br/>
into the T'àcheen river, and anchored<br/>
near the usual mooring place for<br/>
boats that are waiting for the tide to<br/>
favor their going up the river. Here<br/>
we remained until 3 P. M., when we<br/>
followed the lead of a great company<br/>
of boats pushing up the stream. In<br/>
half an hour, or little more, we reached<br/>
the town of T'àcheen situated on the<br/>
right bank of the river and on the up-<br/>
per bank of the creek leading west-<br/>
ward to Māhāwn. Some of the boats<br/>
going before us passed up the river,<br/>
but the most of them went the way<br/>
we wished to go, viz. into the creek.<br/>
We all glided merrily along with a<br/>
strong favoring tide. This creek at<br/>
its mouth is from 80 to 100 yards<br/>
wide, and like all the natural creeks,<br/>
as well as rivers of Siam's vast level<br/>
plains, is exceedingly serpentine. A<br/>
wind squall arose after we had passed<br/>
a few miles in the creek, which imped-<br/>
ed our progress a good deal. It was<br/>
so strong for half an hour that we<br/>
were forced to let our boat drive into<br/>
the bushes and wait until it slackened.<br/>
The distance from T'àcheen to Mā-<br/>
hāwn is probably not far from 25<br/>
miles, a course mainly W.S.W. The<br/>
common saying of the natives is, that<br/>
there are 32 bends of the creek<br/>
before you come to the straight<br/>
canal which connects it with a creek<br/>
from the Māākīawng river. This,<br/>
also, is, in some states of mind,<br/>
a tedious way, but not as much so as<br/>
the one to Māhāch'ie. The country<br/>
is nearly all uncultivated, and the in-<br/>
habitants living on the creek get their<br/>
livelihood chiefly by cutting the small<br/>
wood abounding there, for Bangkok<br/>
market, and by growing the attap<br/>
palms on the banks of the creek and<br/>
making thatching sheets of their leaves<br/>
for sale in the chief towns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We reached Māhāwn about 9 P. M.<br/>
half an hour before the tide began to<br/>
ebb. This is another remarkable<br/>
place of tidal junction. The tide<br/>
waters of the T'àcheen and Māākīawng<br/>
meet here, and all travelers by this<br/>
route should be well acquainted with<br/>
this fact. The two original creeks<br/>
failing of meeting each other by a dis-<br/>
tance of 5 or 6 miles, a canal was made<br/>
(we think in the last reign) for the pur-<br/>
pose of uniting them. The place call-<br/>
ed Mā'āwn (dog howling) on this<br/>
canal is not far from midway of the<br/>
canal and midway of the whole course to<br/>
P'etchaburee. Here we counted 75 river<br/>
boats of various sizes, mostly large, wait-<br/>
ing for the ebbing tide to favor<br/>
their journey to Bangkok. There were<br/>
also several rafts of timber from 100 to<br/>
200 yards long and from 12 to 16 wide<br/>
waiting to pass the same way. On the<br/>
west side of the junction there were<br/>
many boats, but a less number than on<br/>
the east side, waiting for the tide to aid<br/>
them in going the opposite direction<br/>
to Māākīawng, which company we<br/>
joined. There are only a few inhabi-<br/>
tants in the place, but several sub-<br/>
stantial and commodious salas for the<br/>
comfort of travelers, built by govern-<br/>
ment. The distance thence to the<br/>
town of Māākīawng is probably about<br/>
12 miles, mainly S. W. and thence to<br/>
the inner mouth of the river S. S. W.<br/>
3 miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having stopped long enough for<br/>
our men to take their supper, the tide<br/>
began to run down, and we then pass-<br/>
ed very pleasantly onward by a glori-<br/>
ous moon light, purposing to reach<br/>
the mouth of Māākīawng river before<br/>
3 o'clock the next morning. We had<br/>
from 15 to 20 other boats before and<br/>
behind us having the same destination.<br/>
And thinking that the most of them,<br/>
if not all, were better acquainted with<br/>
the way across the gulf than ourselves,<br/>
we determined to take them as guides<br/>
to show us when we should start for<br/>
crossing the gulf, and which of the<br/>
two principal courses to take-—that by<br/>
Banláám at the mouth of P'etchaburee<br/>
river, or that by Bangkaboon at the<br/>
mouth of a large creek some 6 or 8<br/>
miles nearer Māākīawng than the<br/>
former place. The morning watch is<br/>
always accounted the best time to<br/>
cross that arm of the gulf. But some-<br/>
times the wind is too fresh, or the<br/>
weather too squally to allow of cross-<br/>
ing with ordinary boats that trade be-<br/>
tween Bangkok and Petchaburee. But<br/>
seeing our guides did not stop at the<br/>
usual mooring place for waiting boats,<br/>
but went directly on, we hesitated not<br/>
to follow suite, though there was a little<br/>
westerly wind that might lead some<br/>
smaller boats to halt. Some of our<br/>
companions, we observed, went on to-<br/>
ward Banláam and some turned in<br/>
at Bangkaboon. As the wind was<br/>
blowing rather fresh, and might oppose<br/>
our rowing to the former place, we<br/>
preferred to steer for the latter creek<br/>
which we reached about 7 A. M. The<br/>
distance from the inner mouth of the<br/>
Mááklawng to this place may be about<br/>
10 miles nearly S.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is another small creek called<br/>
Esán 4 or 5 miles nearer Mááklawng,<br/>
into which any boat not larger than the<br/>
Sea Bird, may pass at high tide and go<br/>
by a small canal into the Bangkaboon<br/>
creek less than a mile from its mouth.<br/>
But it is a peculiarly desolate passage,<br/>
and boats are in much danger of get-<br/>
ting aground in a musqueto swamp<br/>
where you will, in that event, be<br/>
bound to wait 6 hours at least, for the<br/>
next tide. But there is here, as in all<br/>
other circumstances of trial of patience,<br/>
some compensative consideration with<br/>
which one may cheer himself. One of<br/>
these is found in the monkey tribes<br/>
that inhabit the banks of that canal.<br/>
An amateur in this branch of the animal<br/>
creation may find any amount of sport<br/>
with their princes and lords and fami-<br/>
lies as they come out to seek presents<br/>
in plantains or other fruit tossed to<br/>
them from the boat. But you<br/>
will find it exceedingly difficult to<br/>
noose them, as they observe carefully<br/>
where the trap is laid for them, and<br/>
they seem to have a wonderful instinct<br/>
to keep their feet out of, while tread-<br/>
ing all about and on the very verge of<br/>
it
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Finding the tide ebbing strongly<br/>
when we arrived at Bangkaboon, and<br/>
our boatmen being fagged out, we<br/>
made up our minds to wait quietly<br/>
for the tide to turn in the P. M. The<br/>
place is a small fishing village with no<br/>
temple or sala for the accomodation<br/>
of travelers. Consequently our men<br/>
were compelled to take a “Hobson's<br/>
choice” and sleep as well as a hot sun<br/>
would allow them to do under a<br/>
kachaang awning on the boat. The<br/>
creek at this place is a little less than<br/>
100 yards wide and has all the appear-<br/>
ance of a fine river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We weighed our little anchor about<br/>
3 P. M. and passed up the Bangka-<br/>
boon creek with a favoring tide, deter-<br/>
mining to reach our destination at<br/>
Petchaburee before midnight. The<br/>
distance by the creek and river, with<br/>
which it is connected by a short canal,<br/>
is not far from 15 miles, but by a direct<br/>
course over the sea level plains south-<br/>
ward it would not probably, be more<br/>
than 9 miles. The Bangkaboon creek,<br/>
it seems to us, is the crookedest way<br/>
we have ever passed, and yet it is quite<br/>
pleasant in a pleasant day or a moon-<br/>
light evening to any one who has no<br/>
special desire to make a speedy trip.<br/>
About midway between Baugkaboon<br/>
and the river there is a small isolated<br/>
mount between 80 and 100 feet high<br/>
called Kow Tákrow. You may at first<br/>
see it directly in front of the boat,<br/>
and then on the right side,—-now on<br/>
the left side and now at the stern—al-<br/>
ways apparently very near by—like<br/>
the deceitful mirage of the desert, elu-<br/>
ding your approach a long time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The short canal which connects this<br/>
creek with Petchaburee river is called<br/>
Bang Krok. In consequence of this<br/>
canal there is formed another junction<br/>
of tidal waters on the Bangkaboon creek<br/>
two or three miles from the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Coming out into the river about 8<br/>
P. M., we found the naturally strong<br/>
downward current favorably affected<br/>
by the tide still rising, which enabled<br/>
us to make good progress where we<br/>
had feared we would have the hardest<br/>
pushing. But it was only 3 or 4 miles<br/>
that we were thus favored. Beyond<br/>
that point, no flood tide ever produces<br/>
a current upward. And there we found<br/>
sand banks and a strong natural cur-<br/>
rent to resist, when our men, dropping<br/>
their oars, took to their bamboo poles, as<br/>
they could do much better execution<br/>
with them under those circumstances<br/>
than with oars.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It being rather dark, they would,<br/>
every now and then, run the boat on<br/>
a sand bank, and then have to back<br/>
out of it and grope for the channel.<br/>
We reached the landing of the Presby-<br/>
terian Mission about 11½ P. M. It
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
being the dead of night, we had deter-<br/>
mined not to report ourselves till the<br/>
next morning. But Rev. D. Mc Gilvary<br/>
was up looking out for us, and came<br/>
down and saluted us, begging that we<br/>
would go up to his house as he had<br/>
made all things ready for our accommo-<br/>
dation. But as our children were all<br/>
sound asleep, and his own family also,<br/>
we declined making any stir that<br/>
night; and giving him his mail and a<br/>
bag of treasure, sent over from the<br/>
Mission treasury in Bangkok, we<br/>
bid him good night, being glad to<br/>
learn that he and his family and col-<br/>
leagues were now again in the enjoyment<br/>
of comfortable health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This heavy array of columns, it will<br/>
be seen, describes a very singular route<br/>
of about 103 miles. Having sketched<br/>
many things concerning Petchaburee,<br/>
our readers may expect us to give them<br/>
a series of more interesting articles on<br/>
that charming place.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wats.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a person visits a foreign coun-<br/>
try, his first object ought to be, to<br/>
obtain as much information as possi-<br/>
ble in regard to those things which<br/>
give character, and stability to the<br/>
nation; such as its religion, its pro-<br/>
gress in the arts, and sciences, and its<br/>
institutions of learning. The latter<br/>
more than anything else give bent to<br/>
the minds of the nation, and in all civi-<br/>
lized, and enlightened nations, they are<br/>
looked upon with peculiar interest, and<br/>
are given a most prominent place. In<br/>
Siam, religion and education are most<br/>
intimately connected. The religious<br/>
cloisters are also the institutions which<br/>
train the minds of the male portion of<br/>
the rising generation. Here they are<br/>
not only taught the literature of the<br/>
country, but the precepts of the reli-<br/>
gion of the country, are also most<br/>
studiously instilled into their tender<br/>
minds. Of what then do these insti-<br/>
tutions of learning consist, and what<br/>
are the principal branches taught in<br/>
them? As they are the most promi-<br/>
nent buildings of the country, occupy-<br/>
ing almost every eligible, and beauti-<br/>
ful site around the city, and consti-<br/>
tute the most imposing architecture,<br/>
every stranger wishes to visit them.<br/>
But as the architecture, and general<br/>
appearance of all is about the same, a<br/>
person who has seen one has seen in<br/>
substance all. Under the general name<br/>
of wat, is included the temple grounds,<br/>
temple buildings, priests' houses, in<br/>
short, every thing pertaining to the<br/>
temple. One of the most imposing of<br/>
those wats, and perhaps the most ex-<br/>
pensive, is that generally known as<br/>
Wat P'o, but in higher language as<br/>
Prachètoopon. It is situated on the<br/>
left bank of the river, a little below<br/>
the palace of His Majesty. The<br/>
writer had occasion not long since to,<br/>
visit in company with a stranger, this<br/>
magnificent wat. Landing at the<br/>
Court House of the International Judge,<br/>
we passed up a narrow street leading<br/>
from the river to one of the cross<br/>
streets. We had proceeded but a short<br/>
distance when our ears were attracted<br/>
by loud explosive sounds, issuing<br/>
from a bamboo building near by, and<br/>
upon walking up to the door, found it<br/>
to be a gambling house, and China-<br/>
men were disputing over the game.<br/>
A few more steps brought us to the<br/>
heavy gate in the old city wall, and<br/>
having passed through this, we emerg-<br/>
ed into the cross street running pa-<br/>
rallel with the river. The scenes up-<br/>
on this street, are about the same as<br/>
those met with everywhere through-<br/>
out the city. Seated cross-legged up-<br/>
on some open stands, were some elder-<br/>
ly women, and some young ones, too,<br/>
selling fruit, vegetables &c., to get an<br/>
honest living. Near by were some in<br/>
a still more humble position, doling<br/>
out sugar cane by the penny's worth,<br/>
to the passing boys. Flat upon the<br/>
pavement, were a number of boys seat-<br/>
ed, and some men too, with boards<br/>
upon which were painted, some red<br/>
marks. They were also surrounded<br/>
by lead pennies, and were throwing<br/>
dice from small bowls, thus running<br/>
their chances on a small scale for pen-<br/>
nies. They also nearly blocked up<br/>
the way, so that we were well nigh<br/>
obliged to tread on some of them in<br/>
order to pass. Passing straight across<br/>
the street, we entered at once the<br/>
grounds of wat P'o, and found our-<br/>
selves immediately in a kind of laby-<br/>
rinth, which perfectly defies descrip-<br/>
tion. The inclosure itself as a rough<br/>
guess contains about ten acres of land.<br/>
The grounds are paved with flags of<br/>
fine granite. Near the entrance is a<br/>
small pool, which has underground<br/>
communication with the river, and is<br/>
thus supplied every rising tide with<br/>
fresh water. It is surrounded with a<br/>
brick wall some six feet high, which<br/>
is covered with stucco work. In the<br/>
centre of the pond, is a small artificial<br/>
island, well designed and well execut-<br/>
ed. Upon it is also some green shrub-<br/>
bery. Around, upon the banks, are<br/>
a number of different kinds of animals,<br/>
carved out of stone and standing<br/>
looking into the water, or apparently<br/>
enjoying a sleep. There used to be<br/>
two living alligators in it, but the na-<br/>
tives say they are both gone. There<br/>
are two temples in this wat. One is<br/>
an imposing structure of indescribable<br/>
architecture, which contains an image<br/>
about twice as large as life, and in a<br/>
sitting posture. This image is heavily<br/>
covered with gold. There are also a<br/>
vast number of smaller idols, and oth-<br/>
er things too numerous to mention.<br/>
The floor of the temple, and also that<br/>
of the verandah without, is of gray<br/>
marble highly polished. The heavy<br/>
teak doors, are also richly, and beauti-<br/>
fully inlaid with mother of pearl.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle, attraction however<br/>
of this wat, is the large reclining idol.<br/>
This idol is what an excited Yankee<br/>
might call a "whopper." On ap-<br/>
proaching the building which contains<br/>
this fellow, we found it locked, and<br/>
were obliged to send for the keeper.<br/>
He however soon gave evidence, that<br/>
he had seen foreigners before, and had<br/>
drawn some money from them, for he<br/>
at once demanded a tical for opening<br/>
the door. We assumed an air of dig-<br/>
nity, and displayed some authority,<br/>
and demanded that he at once open<br/>
the door, as it was contrary to Siam-<br/>
ese custom, to ask anything for such<br/>
services. He immediately complied<br/>
with our demand, but upon leaving,<br/>
we gave him the coveted tical, which<br/>
we had intended to do the while.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the door and windows were<br/>
opened up, we saw the huge fellow re-<br/>
clining in all his dignity. In compar-<br/>
ison with him, the Colossus of Rhodes,<br/>
which anciently constituted one of<br/>
the seven wonders of the world,<br/>
would be a mere liliputian. He is<br/>
reclining on the right side, with his<br/>
head resting on the right hand. He<br/>
is one hundred and thirty five feet<br/>
long, about twenty eight feet around<br/>
the belt, and the length of the little<br/>
toe on the right foot, is three feet four<br/>
inches. The natives also say, that<br/>
his bowels are full of large water jars.<br/>
The labor of constructing, and gild-<br/>
ing this image, must have been im-<br/>
mense, and according to the native<br/>
mode of operations must have taken<br/>
years to accomplish it. There are al-<br/>
so a number of salas, or sheds with a<br/>
wall at the back, and open in front,<br/>
for lounging places for the priests and<br/>
others. Upon the back walls, are<br/>
paintings representing the good going<br/>
into happiness, and the bad to misery.<br/>
A number of similar salas placed in,<br/>
a kind of semi-circle, are full of idols<br/>
in sitting posture half the size of<br/>
life. Three small spire-like pagodas,<br/>
are said to be the work of three for-<br/>
mer kings; and a similar one still un-<br/>
finished, is said to be the work of the<br/>
present king. The whole design of<br/>
the wat, is a kind of labyrinth, and a<br/>
person might almost lose his reckon-<br/>
ing in it. I once saw a ground flat<br/>
of the whole wat, but did not under-<br/>
stand it, and have some doubts if the<br/>
person who got it up understood it<br/>
himself. In some future article, I may<br/>
say something of these wats as reli-<br/>
gious institutions, and institutions of<br/>
learning.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. EDITOR,-—I see in your last<br/>
number that you again allude to the<br/>
great use that a work on International<br/>
Law accessible to the Siamese would<br/>
be to this people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Does it never occur to you that two<br/>
of the most civilized and enlightened na-<br/>
tions viz., Great Britain and the Uni-<br/>
ted States differ entirely in opinion as<br/>
to the duties encumbent on them with<br/>
regard to these Laws, as the corres-<br/>
pondence on the Alabama and other<br/>
similar claims plainly show.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fact is, as long as there, is no<br/>
Court to decide such disputes it is<br/>
folly to talk of the Laws by which<br/>
they should be ruled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Your's trul::y,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DELTA.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th June, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Will our correspondent inform us<br/>
what is the cause of this difference of<br/>
opinion between the United States and<br/>
Great Britain? Is it not that there<br/>
is no Law whereby the case of th<br/>
Alabama, can be adjudicated? Is not<br/>
this the first case of the kind which<br/>
has occurred? When this case is final-<br/>
ly settled will it not be a precedent<br/>
whereby future cases of the same kind,<br/>
should any occur, may be settled!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Does our correspondent take the<br/>
ground that all International Law<br/>
is to be thrown aside as worthless be-<br/>
cause of the dispute in the case of the<br/>
Alabama? {{< news/indent4 >}} QUEROR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our local readers will doubtless all<br/>
be much interested in learning that<br/>
P'raPǎlǎt, whom they have long known<br/>
as deputy governor of Petchaburee,<br/>
and their most gentlemanly friend, has<br/>
been promoted to the station occupied<br/>
by the late P'raya Montree Sooriwongs<br/>
with the title of P'raya Têp. He is to<br/>
reside in the mansion built and occu-<br/>
pied by his father the late Sómdetch<br/>
Ong-Yai. We most heartily welcome<br/>
him as a resident of the capital. But<br/>
his American friends at Petchaburee<br/>
cannot but feel sad at the thought of<br/>
having him no more for their near and<br/>
obliging neighbor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that a younger<br/>
brother of the same illustrious family<br/>
known hitherto by the title K'óón-Sán<br/>
is to be promoted to the station vacat-<br/>
ed by P'raya Têp.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The governor of K'oràt, we learn,<br/>
has at length accepted of his appoint-<br/>
ment as Lord Mayor of Bangkok, and<br/>
will soon enter upon the discharge of<br/>
his duties as such. This noble Lord<br/>
has the reputation of being endowed<br/>
with much power of accomplishment,<br/>
and with good administrative abilities.<br/>
If so, and he be just likewise, we shall<br/>
expect him to be a great blessing to<br/>
Bangkok. The Lord Mayor, it will be<br/>
remembered, is one of the most impor-<br/>
tant members of the International court.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that an express of several<br/>
Burmans arrived from Maulmain on<br/>
the 11th inst., and that they were sent<br/>
by the attorney of the late Capt. Burn's<br/>
estate for the purpose of getting an<br/>
authentication of the seal of P'raya<br/>
Poot'ara-p'ie the Prime Minister of<br/>
Northern Siam. The report is, that<br/>
the papers sent to the Court at Maul-<br/>
main by this minister concerning the<br/>
great My-long-kree case in which the<br/>
estate of Captain Burn is concerned,<br/>
were discredited because they came<br/>
under the seal of an officer of the<br/>
Siamese government not known to the<br/>
court.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This appears to us to be a strange<br/>
proceeding, and to look like a disre-<br/>
spect of the Siamese government. How<br/>
is it that the genuiness of one of<br/>
the two chief seals of the government<br/>
should be questioned by the English<br/>
court at Maulmain which has for<br/>
scores of years been a near neighbor<br/>
to the capital of Siam and in constant<br/>
business communication with her?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that the Burman<br/>
express is to return speedily, with<br/>
His Majesty's own signet.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Bangkok on the 11th June<br/>
at 1 A. M. His Excellency P'râya<br/>
Montree Suriwongs, younger and<br/>
only full brother of His Excellency<br/>
Chow P'rãya Sri-Suriwongs, Prime<br/>
Minister of the kingdom of Siam.<br/>
His Excellency the deceased was<br/>
Prime Minister of military affairs<br/>
in northern Siam and President of<br/>
the Southern Provinces of northern<br/>
Siam, Chief ambassador from the<br/>
Court of Siam to the Court of St.<br/>
James, and was selected H. S. M's<br/>
Representative at the Coronation<br/>
of the Cambodian King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency was the son of<br/>
the late Somdetch. Ong-Yai born<br/>
23rd March, 1821.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The body of his Excellency P'hraya<br/>
Montree Suriwoongs is lying in state<br/>
at the residence of the late Somdetch<br/>
Ong-Yai his father, awaiting the time<br/>
of its cremation in the month of<br/>
September next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We sincerely mourn the death of<br/>
our amiable friend, with whom we<br/>
have been intimately acquainted more<br/>
than 30 years. When we first knew<br/>
him, he was a sprightly lad of only<br/>
15 years. As he grew in stature he<br/>
grew in knowledge and favor with the<br/>
people and government until he attain-<br/>
ed to the high honor of second Prime<br/>
Minister of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese barque "Luna" was<br/>
sold to Pra Kit-da-cha for 330 catties.<br/>
With her change of owners she has also<br/>
changed her name, and is now called<br/>
the "Happy."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French Corvette C. Mange,<br/>
departed on the 14th inst. We un-<br/>
derstand that the object of her visit<br/>
here has been fully obtained, and that<br/>
the pass requested of the Siamese<br/>
government have been granted. We<br/>
may expect much from the French ex-<br/>
ploring expedition from Saigon north-<br/>
ward as far as Yang-se-kan to Hang-<br/>
kow. A thorough work will, we doubt<br/>
not, be made of it, and a grand<br/>
thorough-fare soon be opened from<br/>
those northern territories to Saigon,<br/>
which will be a most valuable acquisi-<br/>
tion both to geographical and com-<br/>
mercial interests.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The American Trading Com-
pany of Borneo.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that advices have been re-<br/>
ceived per French mail by the American<br/>
Trading Company of Borneo, from the<br/>
officer administering the government of<br/>
the colony, founded by them in Decem-<br/>
ber last on the territories leased from the<br/>
Sultan of Borneo, of the most satisfactory<br/>
description. The native chiefs from all<br/>
parts of the concession on the mainland,<br/>
even as far north as Maloodu, and as far<br/>
east as Sandakan, had paid visits to the<br/>
settlement, voluntarily taken the oath of<br/>
allegiance to the Rajah, as administered<br/>
by his locum tenens, the Lieut. Governor<br/>
of the Colony, and expressed their great<br/>
satisfaction at being placed under a Gov-<br/>
ernment able and willing to protect pri-<br/>
vate property, put down misrule, and the<br/>
law of might, put a stop to “ head hunt-<br/>
ing ” and generally to encourage civili-<br/>
zation, morality and industry, and pro-<br/>
mised their faithful support to it. The<br/>
success of the experiment of good gov-<br/>
ernment at Sarawak encourages them to<br/>
hope that Northern Borneo may in full-<br/>
ness of time enjoy the same prosperity<br/>
that now blesses that very successful Col-<br/>
ony. Gold had been discovered in work-<br/>
ing quantities at Kimanis, a large amount<br/>
of land had been put under cultivation,<br/>
valuable timber was being felled, and<br/>
quantities of mountain produce were ar-<br/>
riving daily to be exchanged at the fac-<br/>
tory for the Cottons, Beads, &c. sent<br/>
down by the Company. The Chinese<br/>
coolies and artizans had behaved admir-<br/>
ably, working steadily, and quietly, and<br/>
no punishment had been required either<br/>
on their part or that of the European<br/>
Colonists. Gold and Coal had also been<br/>
discovered at Annanam in Sapanga Bay,<br/>
(to the Southward of the Companies ter-<br/>
ritories) and Senor Cuarteron, a Spanish<br/>
priest, well known in the East, both at<br/>
Hongkong and Manila, backed by two<br/>
Spanish steamers was endeavouring to<br/>
get a grant of the coast (some fifty miles)<br/>
from the Sultan. In the absence of any<br/>
remonstrance of support from the repre-<br/>
sentatives of the United States or Great<br/>
Britain, the only two countries interested,<br/>
the Sultan is represented as yielding to<br/>
the pressure brought to bear, though un-<br/>
willingly. It is to be regretted that<br/>
Spaniards as colonists, sometimes, do not<br/>
make pleasant neighbors, and both La-<br/>
buan and Ellena will be exposed to the<br/>
chance of coming under their political<br/>
and religious influence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But although the results thus far have<br/>
been so favorable, and grand as the<br/>
scheme may be, it is greatly to be doubt-<br/>
ed whether as a mercantile speculation<br/>
the enterprise is likely to prove a lucra-<br/>
tive one. The extent of territory is so<br/>
enormous, the amount of the capital re-<br/>
quired to place the matter on a proper<br/>
basis so large, and the time that must ne-<br/>
cessarily elapse before any returns can be<br/>
looked for so uncertain, that we do not<br/>
believe it possible for the Company to be<br/>
successfully operated, except from a cen-<br/>
tre situated either in the United States or<br/>
Great Britain, unless the country be<br/>
thrown open to the world, and the Com-<br/>
pany by making moderate grants of land<br/>
to emigrants, so far encourage emigration<br/>
that they eventually create a demand for<br/>
the magnificent and fertile plains now ly-<br/>
ing fallow on the margins of the splendid<br/>
rivers flowing from the mountains to the<br/>
sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That Borneo possesses in itself the<br/>
seeds of immense wealth there can be no<br/>
doubts, but it will require time, capital,<br/>
labor, and above all careful and shrewd<br/>
management to induce the germ of vege-<br/>
tation to quicken and finally to bloom<br/>
into the full developed and ripened plant.<br/>
In our opinion it will be for this genera-<br/>
tion to plant the “pagoda tree” in Bor-<br/>
neo, for the next to shake it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though the crown rent to be paid is<br/>
but a pepper-corn, though the company<br/>
is vested with the fullest powers, both<br/>
civil, military, and judicial, and though<br/>
the head of the Company for the time<br/>
being possesses in his own person power<br/>
excelled by no monarch on the face of<br/>
the earth, and only equalled by his pro-<br/>
totype an Eastern Satrap ; still the bet-<br/>
ter and more powerful the weapon the<br/>
greater the strength required to wield it.<br/>
The world produces not oftener than
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
* About 8000 square miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
once in a century a man gifted with the<br/>
rare powers of Sir James Brooke, and<br/>
probably no nation in the world will ever<br/>
support so powerfully and ably one of its<br/>
citizens as Great Britain did, when she<br/>
placed an English Admiral and an Eng-<br/>
lish fleet at his disposal to enable him to<br/>
establish his authority in Borneo, and<br/>
force the reigning monarch to accede to<br/>
the terms he saw fit to impose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Although we doubt not the manage-<br/>
ment of this enterprise will be placed in<br/>
very good hands, yet we doubt whether<br/>
Hongkong, taking into consideration the<br/>
stamp and style of men who now com-<br/>
pose its community generally, can pro-<br/>
duce the man for the occasion. If it does,<br/>
it must be some one who has been kept<br/>
in the closest obscurity, and has never<br/>
appeared before the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The progress of the enterprise will be<br/>
watched with much interest by the world<br/>
for two reasons; first, as having been ini-<br/>
tiated in the little village of Hongkong;<br/>
for the three persons to whom the leases<br/>
were granted in Borneo, having despatcli-<br/>
ed one of their number here, to dispose<br/>
of them, and this having been accomplish-<br/>
ed (the present Company being the pur-<br/>
chasers) the affair may justly be said to<br/>
have really commenced here; second, as<br/>
being the first attempt of Americans to<br/>
colonize, away from their own continent.<br/>
The brilliant success of our Trans-Atlan-<br/>
tic cousins in colonizing California, trans-<br/>
forming it from a wilderness into one of<br/>
the powerful states of the world, in the<br/>
short space of ten years, a feat unequal-<br/>
led in speed and brilliance of execution<br/>
in ancient or modern history, leads us to<br/>
hope for the happiest results from this<br/>
their second attempt; hampered as they<br/>
are by the various difficulties which sur-<br/>
round them, with which they have as yet<br/>
been unaccustomed to deal. If their na-<br/>
tural elasticity of disposition, unwearied<br/>
industry, and that remarkable persever-<br/>
ance and carelessness of obstacles, which<br/>
induced the Emperor Christopher to say,<br/>
that "if there were a bag of coffee in h—l<br/>
there would be a Yankee found to go and<br/>
fetch it," will not enable them to sur-<br/>
mount these obstacles, it will be useless<br/>
for any other nation to attempt it. We<br/>
wish them every success, but we must<br/>
say it, we doubt it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Evening Mail. April 2.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraph communication.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears there has been some grand<br/>
improvement effected of late, in the<br/>
working of our Indian telegraphs. The<br/>
public will learn with much satisfaction,<br/>
that we are only now some three or four<br/>
days distant from England, as messages<br/>
have lately been received in that time<br/>
from London, and intelligence has been<br/>
received within a few hours from Cal-<br/>
cutta.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Generally there is a marked difference<br/>
between the state of the lines in the dry<br/>
season and during the rains. When the<br/>
rain is pouring down in torrents and the<br/>
country is flooded with water in every<br/>
direction, it is quite natural to suppose<br/>
that human beings cannot move about<br/>
with much alacrity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For the thorough working of the elec-<br/>
trical currents along the wires, a dry at-<br/>
mosphere is essentially necessary. We<br/>
have ourselves seen a venerable Professor<br/>
shake his head most significantly in trying<br/>
to excite the electrical currents in various<br/>
machines, when the condition of the at-<br/>
mosphere outside was damp and humid.<br/>
You may obtain a slight excitation of<br/>
electricity by stroking down the back of<br/>
a cat, but if the animal be damp or wet,<br/>
it would be very nearly impossible. Eu-<br/>
rope possesses an atmosphere, which is<br/>
generally favorable to the working of<br/>
the electrical currents, as it is mostly dry<br/>
and cold, and in India, though there is a<br/>
great increase in the temperature, the<br/>
dryness of the atmosphere is very nearly<br/>
perfect during the dry season, when the<br/>
telegraph ought to work to a high pitch<br/>
of sensibility and excellence. In the<br/>
rains the case is altered, for the weather<br/>
is entirely against the efficient working<br/>
of all electrical machines.—-RANGOON<br/>
TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Monsieur de Tocqueville's Fourth of July
Speech in Paris.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A number of years ago, says a writer in<br/>
the DEMOCRATIC AGE, happening to be<br/>
in Paris on the 4th of July, with many<br/>
other Americans, we agreed to celebrate<br/>
"the day" by a dinner at the Hotel Meu-<br/>
rice. There were seventy-two of us in<br/>
all. We had but one guest. This was<br/>
M. de Tocqueville, who had then rep-<br/>
dered himself famous by his great work<br/>
upon Democracy in America. During<br/>
the festivities in the evening, after the<br/>
cloth had been removed, and speechify-<br/>
ing had commenced, some gentleman al-<br/>
luded EN PASSANT to the fact that he was<br/>
born in Connecticut.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Connect-de-coot," exclaimed Mon-<br/>
sieur de Tocqueville, as he suddenly rose<br/>
with the enthusiasm of a Frenchman.<br/>
"Vy messieurs, I will tell you, vid the<br/>
permission of de Presidente of this festi-<br/>
val, vou very leetal story, and then I<br/>
will give you vou grand sentiment, to<br/>
dat little State vou call Connect-de-coot.<br/>
Von day ven I was in de gallery of the<br/>
House of Representative, I held one map<br/>
of the Confederation in my hand. Dere<br/>
was von leetle yellow spot dat'dey cal<br/>
Connect-de-coot. I found by the Con-<br/>
stitution, he was entitled to six of his<br/>
boys to represent him on dat floor. But<br/>
ven I make de acquaintance personnelle<br/>
with de member, I find dat more than<br/>
tirty of the Representatif on dat floor<br/>
was born in Connect-de-coot. And then<br/>
ven I was in the gallery of the House of<br/>
the Senat, I find de Constitution permit<br/>
Connect-de-coot to send two of his boys<br/>
to represent him in dat Legislature. But<br/>
once more ven I make de acquaintance<br/>
personnelle of the Senator, I find nine of<br/>
de Senator was born in Connect-de-coot.<br/>
So den, gentlemen, I have made my lee-<br/>
tle speech : now I will give you my grand<br/>
sentiment :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Connect-de-coot, the leetle yellow spot<br/>
dat make de clock-peddler, de school-<br/>
master, and de senator. De first give<br/>
you time ; the second tell you what you<br/>
do with him ; and de sir make your law<br/>
and your civilization,—and then as he<br/>
was resuming his seat amidst roars of<br/>
laughter, he rose again, and with that<br/>
peculiar gesticulation which characterizes<br/>
all Frenchmen in moments of excitement,<br/>
he shook his finger tremulously over the<br/>
assembled congress, and exclaimed to<br/>
the top of his voice, "Ah ! gentlemen,<br/>
dat leetle yellow State you call Connect-<br/>
de-coot is one very great miracle to me.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Missionary Statistics.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. AMERICAN.-—The whole number of<br/>
American Foreign Missionary Societies is<br/>
sixteen,—having under their care 2,388<br/>
agents as missionaries, native preachers,<br/>
etc., 54,000 church members, 22,000 pu-<br/>
pils, and an annual income of $1,100,000<br/>
to sustain their operation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. BRITISH.—-In Great Britain there<br/>
are twenty missionary societies, employ-<br/>
ing 6,216 agents as missionaries, etc. and<br/>
having 185,000 church members, 201,000<br/>
scholars, and an annual income of $3,-<br/>
094,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. CONTINENTAL.-—On the Continent<br/>
of Europe there are twelve of these so-<br/>
cieties, of which six are in Germany.<br/>
They have 811 agents as missionaries,<br/>
teachers, etc., 79,000 church members,<br/>
12,000 scholars, and an income of $267,-<br/>
000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. TOTAL.—-The whole number of<br/>
British and continental missionaries is<br/>
thirty two societies, 7,027 agents or mis-<br/>
sionaries teachers, etc., 264,000 church<br/>
members, 213,000 pupils in schools, and<br/>
an annual income of $3,361,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole number of Protestant mis-<br/>
sionary operations in the world, as thus<br/>
carried on by American, British, and<br/>
Continental Christians, is 48 societies,<br/>
9,418 agents, or missionaries, etc., 518,-<br/>
000 church members, 235,000 pupils in<br/>
the different schools, and an annual in-<br/>
come of $4,481,000.—-PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Evil Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following beautiful allegory is<br/>
translated from the German:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Sophronius, a wise teacher, would<br/>
not suffer even his own grown-up sons<br/>
and daughters to associate with those<br/>
whose conduct was not pure and upright.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Dear father,' said the gentle Eulalie<br/>
to him one day, when he forbade her in<br/>
company with her brother to visit the<br/>
volatile Lucinda, 'you must think us<br/>
very childish if you imagine that we<br/>
should be exposed to danger by it.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The father took a dead coal from the<br/>
hearth and reached it to his daughter,<br/>
saying:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'It will not burn you my child; take<br/>
it.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Eulalie did so, and behold her delicate<br/>
white hand was soiled and blackened,<br/>
and, as it chanced, her white dress also.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'We cannot be too careful in handling<br/>
coals,' said Eulalie, in vexation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
'Yes truly,' said her father, 'you see<br/>
my child, that coals, even if they do not<br/>
burn, blacken. So it is with the com-<br/>
pany of the vicious.'—Pacific.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
WHAT YOU CAN NEVER CATCH—Boys<br/>
and girls, what is it that you can never<br/>
catch, though you chase after it as on the<br/>
wings of the wind?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You can never catch the word that has<br/>
once gone out of your lips. Once spoken,<br/>
it is out of your reach; do your best, you<br/>
can never recall it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Therefore, take care what you say.<br/>
Never speak an unkind word, an impure<br/>
word, a lying word, a profane word.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_19 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE PRESIDENT, in his address to the<br/>
Kentucky delegation, said: "We shall<br/>
take no step backward." The country<br/>
would have been better pleased if he had<br/>
pledged himself to take no step zig-zag!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_3_20 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cotton.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following curious but interesting<br/>
calculation respecting cotton, its produc-<br/>
tion and use, we extract VERBATIM:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1746 an American merchant in<br/>
Liverpool received a consignment from<br/>
Charleston of eight bales of cotton. They<br/>
were seized at the Custom House, under<br/>
an allegation that cotton could not be<br/>
grown in the American colonies. In 1860<br/>
the cotton crop of the United States<br/>
amounted to 2,078,777,600 pounds. In<br/>
the East Indies the annual crop is 2,400,-<br/>
000,000 pounds. Of the 1,285,000,000<br/>
people now in the world, 700,000,000<br/>
wear cotton exclusively, and all but 79,-<br/>
000,000 use it more or less.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Libel Law Decision.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A decision which affects the interests of<br/>
religious papers, clerks of ecclesiastical<br/>
courts, &c., has been made in this city. A<br/>
newspaper had published a statement that<br/>
certain grave charges had been laid before<br/>
the Grand Jury against a citizen. The<br/>
publishers were prosecuted for libel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Court held that an editor or reporter<br/>
is not legally liable to prove the absolute<br/>
truth of any charge or accusation which<br/>
may be embodied in a fair report of pro-<br/>
ceedings before a legal tribunal, and that<br/>
it is sufficient justification to show that<br/>
the facts reported have transpired as they<br/>
were narrated. If the decision were other-<br/>
wise, every conductor of a newspaper could<br/>
be forced at the will or caprice of a litigant<br/>
to become the plaintiff or defendant al-<br/>
luded to in any report which might appear<br/>
in his journal, the accuracy of which<br/>
might be questioned. The ruling thus de-<br/>
cides that an editor is a mere publisher of<br/>
actual occurrences, and cannot possibly<br/>
assume in law the position of a litigant in<br/>
cases which he reports, and of the merits<br/>
of which he must necessarily be wholly<br/>
ignorant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The same rule will apply to the proceed-<br/>
ings of ecclesiastical courts. It has some-<br/>
times occurred that when religious papers<br/>
have published the fact that a man has<br/>
been convicted of a criminal offence and<br/>
excommunicated, or deposed from the min-<br/>
istry, he has brought an action for damages<br/>
against the newspaper so publishing the<br/>
facts in the case. We believe that in no<br/>
case has such a plaintiff recovered damages.<br/>
But the religious press has sometimes been<br/>
subjected to great annoyance by such suits,<br/>
and to avoid the annoyance we have often<br/>
declined such publications. But the de-<br/>
cision just rendered is conclusive, that the<br/>
statement of fact, without malice, and for<br/>
the public good, cannot be regarded as a<br/>
libel.—NEW YORK OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Planets Destroyed.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The belief that this world is ultimately<br/>
to be destroyed by fire, is supported by<br/>
the discovery that such a fate has befal-<br/>
len larger planets than ours. French<br/>
astronomers assert that no fewer than<br/>
fifteen hundred fixed stars have vanished<br/>
from the firmament within the last three<br/>
hundred years. Tycho Brahe gives an<br/>
interesting account of a brilliant star of<br/>
the largest size, which, on account of its<br/>
singular radiance, had become the special<br/>
object of his daily observation for several<br/>
months, during which the star gradually<br/>
became paler until its final disappearance.<br/>
La Place says that one of the vanished<br/>
fixed stars of the Northern hemisphere<br/>
afforded indubitable evidence of having<br/>
been consumed by fire. At first the star<br/>
was of a dazzling white, next of a glow-<br/>
ing red and yellow lustre, and finally it<br/>
became pale and ash-colored. The burn-<br/>
ing of the star lasted sixteen months,<br/>
when this sunny visitor, to which perhaps<br/>
a whole series of planets may have owed<br/>
allegiance, finally departed and became<br/>
invisible forever.—-N. Y. OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Shortest Sermon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Dr. Muhlenberg’s sermon at the<br/>
funeral of the late Robert B. Minturn,<br/>
Esq., is the shortest on record, though<br/>
several are recorded with as few words.<br/>
He read the words of the Prophet Micah:<br/>
“He hath shown thee, O man, what is<br/>
good : and what doth the Lord require of<br/>
thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy,<br/>
and to walk humbly with thy God?” And<br/>
then added: “So DID HE.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One sermon having the same number<br/>
of words, but more letters, was one<br/>
preached by the Irish Dean Kirwan. He<br/>
was pressed while suffering from a severe<br/>
cold, to preach a charity sermon in St.<br/>
Peter’s church, Dublin, for the benefit of<br/>
the orphan children of the parish school.<br/>
The church was crowded to suffocation,<br/>
and the good Dean, on mounting the pul-<br/>
pit, and announcing his text, pointed<br/>
with his hand to the children in the aisle,<br/>
and simply said: “There they are!” The<br/>
collection on the occasion exceeded all<br/>
belief.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was Dean Swift who was to preach<br/>
a charity sermon ; and giving out as his<br/>
text, “He that hath pity on the poor<br/>
lendeth to the Lord,” then added : “If<br/>
you like the security, down with the<br/>
dust.”—-NEW YORK OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The unchangeable Land.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Things do not change in the East. As<br/>
Abraham pitched his tent in Bethel, so<br/>
does an Arab sheikh now set up his<br/>
camp; as David built his palace on<br/>
Mount Zion, so would a Turkish pasha<br/>
now arrange his house; in every street<br/>
may be seen the hairy children of Esau,<br/>
squatting on the ground, devouring a<br/>
mess of lentils like that for which the<br/>
rough hunter sold his birthright; along<br/>
every road plod the sons of Rechab,<br/>
whose fathers, one thousand years ago,<br/>
bound themselves and theirs to drink no<br/>
wine, plant no trees, enter within no<br/>
door, and their children have kept the<br/>
oath; at every khan young men sit<br/>
around the pan of parched corn, dipping<br/>
the morsel into the dish; Job's plow is<br/>
still used, and the seed is still trodden<br/>
into the ground by asses and kine; olives<br/>
are shaken from the bough as directed<br/>
by Isaiah; and the grafting of trees is<br/>
unchanged since the days of Saul. The<br/>
Syrian house is still, as formerly, only a<br/>
stone tent, as a temple was but a marble<br/>
tent. What is seen now in Bethany may<br/>
be taken as the exact likeness of the<br/>
house of Lazarus, where Mary listened<br/>
and Martha toiled, or as the house of<br/>
Simon, the leper, where the precious box<br/>
of ointment was broken, and whence<br/>
Judas set out to betray his Master.—-ALL<br/>
THE YEAR ROUND.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fate of Fast Men.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vicious die early. They fall like<br/>
shadows, or tumble wrecks and ruins<br/>
into the grave o'er while quite young,<br/>
almost before forty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The wicked liveth not half his days."<br/>
The world at once raises the truth and<br/>
magnifies the reason by describing the di-<br/>
abolical life of fast men; that is they live<br/>
fast. They spend twelve hours in six;<br/>
getting through the whole before the<br/>
meridian, and dropping into darkness<br/>
while others are in the glory of light.<br/>
Their sun goeth down while it is day.<br/>
And they might have helped it. Many<br/>
a one dies before he need. Young men<br/>
of genius, like Burns and Byron, the<br/>
whom, when dissipated and profligate,<br/>
thirty-seven is so fatal, and your obscure<br/>
and meaner wandering stars, who waste<br/>
their time in libertine indulgence—-they<br/>
cannot live; they must die early. They<br/>
put on steam till they blow up the boiler.<br/>
They run at such a rate that the fire goes<br/>
out for want of fuel. The machinery is<br/>
destroyed by rapid speed and reckless<br/>
wear. Nothing can save them. Their<br/>
physical system cannot stand the strain<br/>
they put to it; while the state of their<br/>
mind is often such that the soul would<br/>
tend[?] the substance of the most robust<br/>
body, and cannot go on in the race, or<br/>
escape from the incessant hell of its own<br/>
thoughts.—-Lo. No. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PUBLIC AUCTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ON Monday next the 18th<br/>
current, at Noon, will be sold<br/>
by public auction, at the Godowns<br/>
of Messrs SCOTT & Co. a quantity<br/>
of Copper and Yellow metal shea-<br/>
thing and nails, canvas, and iron,<br/>
landed sea damaged ex-Schooner<br/>
'Fairy" from London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
Auctioneers.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_4_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE undersigned have been<br/>
instructed to Sell by public<br/>
auction, for the benefit of whom<br/>
it may concern on Monday next<br/>
the 18th current at 10 A. M. pre-<br/>
cisely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Yellow metal sheathing<br/>
and nails stripped off the Schooner<br/>
"FAIRY" of London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two Europe made hawsers.<br/>
The Sale will take place on board<br/>
of the Schooner "Fairy" now in<br/>
the Bangkok Dock Company's<br/>
Dock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:—CASH.{{< news/indent2 >}}VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Auctioneers.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have received direct by<br/>
the last Overland Mail<br/>
and the "Fairy" from London, a<br/>
well assorted stock of all kinds of<br/>
liquids, drygoods; also syrups,<br/>
provisions as conserves, butter;<br/>
victoria-cuddy-swan-fancy-pic nic<br/>
biscuits; French and English tea<br/>
and gingerbread; cakes, crack-<br/>
nells, etc. etc. etc. etc,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok June 7th 1866. {{< news/indent2 >}} (3 w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE United States Consulate,<br/>
has been removed from the<br/>
Siamese Public Buildings to Kawk<br/>
Kwai, near the residence of Paul<br/>
Pickenpack Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. HOOD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_5_0 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK RECORDER
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-14_5_1 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="re7">
        <p class="r02"><b>SHIPPING LIST JUNE 14TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rfb">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r76">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rfc">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where For</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Nonfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">281</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Siagora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Holleroelds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Roms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">401</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r01">Chimand</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">304</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Seaman's bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Both</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">   </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Diamond City</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laboek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">242</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">   </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">   </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Tin Sin</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Johanna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Christiannes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">100</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Duppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Jensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r100">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r102">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r103">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">O. Menge</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Moques</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">Fr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r105">
        <p class="r01">Str. Cor.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r106">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r107">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r108">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r109">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r106">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r107">
        <p class="r49">"<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r01">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01">Bormannen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r49">218</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10a">
        <p class="r01">Pruss.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10b">
        <p class="r01">Schr.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r11a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessel's Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrival</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10a">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r107">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r117">
        <p class="r01">British schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r49">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r117">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Fairy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">British schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">230</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Kobke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Florence</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">British bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Hornbrook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Nacoda Ismial</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Friesch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">184</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Semons</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Guillaume</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Belgian brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">294</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Ketlsen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01">Medoc</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r104">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">French bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r49">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rff">
        <p class="r01">Roux</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="r114">
        <p class="r02"><b>Siamese Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessel's Name.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrived.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r115">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r116">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r107">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r01">333</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01">Wolff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r117">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">304</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Bentick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">537</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Haberkost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">790</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hemsoht</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Loading</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">575</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Gottlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">462</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Burrow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Conqueror</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">570</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Wright</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">388</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Koonasos</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Cruiser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Prowee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Ed. Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Churnside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">395</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Saxiorph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Loading</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Friendship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">480</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Klindt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">448</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hoffman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Goliah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">542</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Da Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">In dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">381</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Impregnable</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">310</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Walrond</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Sinapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Government</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chausus Kong Sia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Jansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soay Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Cheribon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Yong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">339</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Stroke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Soon Hoost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">309</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Tecker</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Eng Hap</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Kim Seng Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">313</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Town Pow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Mary Boon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">566</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Meiene</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Meteor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">394</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Mercury</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">166</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Nesseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">231</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Ocean Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">521</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Oresten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">380</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chan Sue Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r115">
        <p class="r01">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r116">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r107">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r01">736</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01">Hotinquest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r117">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Kotoed</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Prospero</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">184</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Siagon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Queen of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">346</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Crook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">357</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Railway</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hanssen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Honhow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Rapid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">429</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Carles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Resolute</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Resolution</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Mackay</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Loading</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Seaforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">311</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">356</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Sirus</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">316</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hoy How</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">St. George</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">April</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">385</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Davis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hongkong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">574</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Ningpo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Tun Fali Hin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">607</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Frendonberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">306</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Viscount Canning</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">575</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Beinroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Siagon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Laid up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Wetherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">In dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01">Yan Chai Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r118">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfe">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r01">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01">Richton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
