---
linkTitle: 'June 21st, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 21st, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 21st'
date: 2025-12-07T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 47
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, June 21st, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 24.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
SUMMARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Home News, 26th April.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American House of Representatives<br/>
has passed the Civil Rights Bill over the<br/>
President's veto. It is believed the Presi-<br/>
dent will refuse to put the bill into force,<br/>
and that the Senate, in that event, will<br/>
impeach him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fenians have assembled in large num-<br/>
bers on the frontier of New Brunswick.<br/>
Their movements are watched by British<br/>
gun-boats. A raid was expected on the<br/>
Niagara frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been announced that the Ameri-<br/>
can government, in view of the Fenian<br/>
agitation, has issued orders for the main-<br/>
tenance of neutrality on the northern<br/>
frontiers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American government has ordered<br/>
out a naval force to protect the fishing<br/>
grounds, and proposes to negotiate with<br/>
England for a final settlement of the<br/>
question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A terrible tornado has passed over por-<br/>
tions of the United States, causing consi-<br/>
derable loss of life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rumours are again current that Jeffer-<br/>
son Davis will shortly be brought to trial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria has proposed to Prussia that<br/>
they should both disarm; but great un-<br/>
easiness still prevails, and apprehensions<br/>
of war are still generally entertained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Italy preparations are making for an<br/>
advance upon Venetia. The Austrian army<br/>
in Italy has been placed upon a war footing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Austrian Cabinet has announced<br/>
that the Austrian armaments have been<br/>
rendered necessary by the attitude of Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Oaths Bill has passed through the<br/>
Lords, with the addition of an amendment<br/>
declaring the supremacy of the Queen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle disease is steadily declining.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Porte has protested against the no-<br/>
mination of Prince Charles of Hohensol-<br/>
lern as Hospodar of Roumania, and France,<br/>
England, Russia, and Austria have recog-<br/>
nised the justice of the protest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The release of the Abyssinian captives<br/>
has been officially announced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera has broken out at Rotterdam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A severe shock of an earthquake has been<br/>
felt along the the west coast of Norway.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bank of England rate of discount stands<br/>
at 6 per cent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Money Market steady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Stock Markets unsettled and generally<br/>
lower.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The House of Representatives, following<br/>
the example of the Senate had passed the<br/>
Civil Rights Bill over the President's veto<br/>
by 122 to 41 votes. The bill is now law.<br/>
The House had also instructed the Judici-<br/>
ary Committee to inquire if there is pro-<br/>
bable cause to believe that Mr. Davis and<br/>
others were implicated in the assassination<br/>
of President Lincoln, or are guilty of treas-<br/>
on; and, if so, what measures necessary<br/>
to bring them to a speedy trial. The scene<br/>
in the House, at the passage of the Civil<br/>
Rights Bill, was one of great excitement.<br/>
On the question being put, "Shall the bill<br/>
pass, notwithstanding the objections of<br/>
the President?" a call was made and every<br/>
member's voice could be plainly heard as<br/>
be answered "Yea" or "Nay." At the<br/>
close it was 121 to 41. Then Speaker Col-<br/>
fax asked to have his name called, and vo-<br/>
ted "Aye," making it 122 to 41, or three to<br/>
one. As soon as he announced the vote,<br/>
the members upon the Republican side<br/>
commenced to applaud, and the galleries<br/>
taking up the cue broke out in a wild and<br/>
tumultuous cheering for several minutes.<br/>
The Speaker rapped, but it was of no use.<br/>
Ladies waved their handkerchiefs and men<br/>
continued to applaud. Finally the Speak-<br/>
er waved his hand, and the noise subsid-<br/>
ed somewhat, when he recognised a mem-<br/>
ber who moved to adjourn. This motion<br/>
was carried, and the galleries continued to<br/>
applaud for some minutes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On April 12, the Senate passed the Loan<br/>
Bill in the same form as it was passed by<br/>
the House of Representatives. The Presi-<br/>
dent subsequently signed the bill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was semi-officially announced on April<br/>
14 that the State department, in view of<br/>
the Fenian agitation, had long since issu-<br/>
ed orders for the preservation of neutrali-<br/>
ty on the nothern borders. The United<br/>
States gun-boat Winooski had been dis-<br/>
patched to Eastport.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The California Legislature had passed<br/>
a resolution calling upon the government<br/>
to interfere in order to prevent the esta-<br/>
blishment of the Mexican monarchy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LATEST.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Times' Washington correspondent,<br/>
under date of April 15, says:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenians are once more making mys-<br/>
terious movements towards the Canadian<br/>
frontier, and the colonists seem uneasy res-<br/>
pecting the intentions of the American gov-<br/>
ernment. I am happy to be able to inform<br/>
you, on the highest authority, that or-<br/>
ders have been given by the government<br/>
of a nature to prevent any organised ex-<br/>
pedition of Fenians setting out for Canada<br/>
or any where else. The government is de-<br/>
sirous of avoiding coming into conflict<br/>
with the Fenians as long as it possibly can,<br/>
but it will not suffer any violation of the<br/>
laws of neutrality to be attempted. Mea-<br/>
sures have been taken to carry out this in-<br/>
tention of the government, and I believe<br/>
that Mr. Staunton and one other member of<br/>
the Cabinet were alone in opposing this<br/>
course. Mr. Staunton would let the Fenians<br/>
make war how they pleased, and even give<br/>
them help, so intense is his bitterness to-<br/>
wards England on account of its alleged<br/>
violation of neutrality during the late War,<br/>
but the Cabinet is controlled by wiser<br/>
men, and the American government will<br/>
do what is right as soon as the Fenians<br/>
give it sufficient cause to interfere.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
British North America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenians were again exciting un-<br/>
easiness in British America. A Quebec<br/>
despatch says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large numbers of Fenians were, on<br/>
April 10, gathering along the New Bruns-<br/>
wick frontier, and threatening Campobello<br/>
and St. Stephens. Two hundred Fenians<br/>
left Portland, Maine, on the 9th, for East-<br/>
port, on the Canadian frontier, and a<br/>
schooner had been chartered to carry arms.<br/>
Murphy, the president of the Toronto Hi-<br/>
bernian Society, and five others had been<br/>
arrested in Canada, EN ROUTE for Port-<br/>
land. Arms and ammunition were found<br/>
upon them. On the 12th the Fenian Con-<br/>
vention was in session at Eastport, in<br/>
Maine. The town was crowded with Fe-<br/>
nians, and there were several Fenian ves-<br/>
sels in the harbour, armed with howitzers<br/>
and 20-pounders. A sailing vessel escap-<br/>
ed to sea, notwithstanding the presence of<br/>
the United States marshal in Eastport.<br/>
Arms and ammunition were arriving at<br/>
different points along the New Brunswick<br/>
frontier. Several British gun-boats were<br/>
off Eastport and Campobello, keeping<br/>
steam up and portholes open, and this at-<br/>
titude has caused a hostile feeling among<br/>
American sympathizers with the Fenian<br/>
cause, numbers of whom, together with<br/>
some British deserters, were joining the<br/>
Fenians. A suspicious-looking steamer,<br/>
showing American colours, had proceed-<br/>
ed up Eastport River towards St. Andrews.<br/>
Communication between St. John's and the<br/>
western towns on the British side was re-<br/>
ported to have been cut by the Fenians.<br/>
The garrison of Campobello had been rein-<br/>
forced, and earthworks had been thrown<br/>
up. The Canadian authorities believed that<br/>
the movement on New Brunswick was a<br/>
feint to cover an attack upon Canada, in<br/>
conjunction with gun-boats from Chicago.<br/>
At Toronto, Fenian arrests and the search<br/>
for arms continued. The British gun-boat<br/>
Pleiades put to sea from Eastport on the<br/>
12th. It was rumoured, apparently with-<br/>
out any foundation, that her crew had<br/>
mutinied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The governor of New Brunswick had<br/>
unconditionally accepted the resignation<br/>
of the anti-Federation cabinet. No new<br/>
ministry was formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer England, from Liverpool,<br/>
with 1300 persons on board, had put into<br/>
Halifax for medical assistance, having<br/>
160 cases of cholera and 60 deaths. She<br/>
remains at Halifax strictly quarantined.<br/>
The captain believes some German pas-<br/>
sengers brought the epidemic aboard.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mexicoo.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Mexico announce that<br/>
Coraza was besieging Mazatlan. He also<br/>
held the mines at Sinalia, and was coin-<br/>
ing money on his own account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Intelligence from Vera Crus to the 27th<br/>
of March announces that a great fire had<br/>
taken place in the city of Mexico, de-<br/>
stroying 300,000 dollars worth of proper-<br/>
ty. The Imperialists had been defeated<br/>
by the Liberals in Coahuila, with the loss<br/>
of 140 killed. One hundred Americans<br/>
had invaded Sonora, ostensibly in pursuit<br/>
of Indians. Their intentions were not<br/>
positively known. The imperial com-<br/>
mander at Chihuahua had shot three cap-<br/>
tured Liberal chiefs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An imperial decree was issued on April<br/>
18 proroguing the session of the French<br/>
Corps Legislatif till the 21st of December.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Constitutionnel' of April 21 pub-<br/>
lishes an article signed by M. Paulin<br/>
Limayrac, in which it remarks upon the<br/>
impatience of those journals which desire<br/>
to have explanations from the French<br/>
government on the state of affairs in Ger-<br/>
many. The article reminds those journals<br/>
that France is not mixed up, either direct-<br/>
ly or indirectly, with the questions at<br/>
issue between the two great German<br/>
Powers, and continues that;—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government of the emperor has no<br/>
right to interfere. It regards the conflict<br/>
as a spectator only, following, however,<br/>
its different phases with the same vigilance<br/>
and solicitude which it bestows upon all<br/>
important questions of foreign policy.<br/>
The imperial government cannot pro-<br/>
nounce its opinion upon a conflict which<br/>
assumes to many different phases, and<br/>
undergoes almost every day fresh modi-<br/>
fications. Moreover, the French govern-<br/>
ment could not express its opinion pub-<br/>
licly without sharing in the discussion up-<br/>
on the questions at issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Later.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ‘Constitutionnel’ of yesterday<br/>
publishes an article upon the German<br/>
question, signed by M. Paulin Limayrac,<br/>
demonstrating that France could do no-<br/>
thing better during the German difficulty<br/>
than preserve, with entire neutrality, all<br/>
liberty of action and every means of in-<br/>
fluence for the moment when they might<br/>
be usefully employed. The writer con-<br/>
tinues:–-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Facts justify the course taken by the<br/>
emperor. Left to themselves, Prussia<br/>
and Austria have agreed to disarm, but<br/>
it is very doubtful whether foreign in-<br/>
terference would have more easily ob-<br/>
tained a similar result.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the ‘Morgenpost’ of<br/>
Vienna, the Emperor Napoleon has de-<br/>
clared to the Italian Cabinet that he will<br/>
in no way assist Italy in case she should<br/>
attack Austria. ‘Morgenpost’ adds that<br/>
the news comes from an authentic source.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A meeting of the electors of the first<br/>
electoral district of Berlin was held on<br/>
April 18 in that city when the following<br/>
resolution, supported by several of the<br/>
Prussian deputies, was adopted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With respect to Austria and Italy the<br/>
aspect of affairs is described as decidedly<br/>
warlike. A Vienna despatch of the even-<br/>
ing of April 24 says:–-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram in the ‘Neue Frankfurter<br/>
Zeitung’ from Verona asserts that large<br/>
bodies of troops had been concentrated<br/>
at Bologna, and that Garibaldi had left<br/>
Caprera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ‘Independance Belge’ publishes<br/>
the text of Count von Bismarck’s des-<br/>
patch to Count Mensdorff, dated 21st<br/>
April :–“The Prussian minister receives<br/>
with satisfaction the propositions of the<br/>
Austrian minister, dated the 18th. He<br/>
expects further communications relative<br/>
to the extent and the days of the pro-<br/>
posed demobilisation of the Austrian<br/>
troops, in order that Prussia may pro-<br/>
ceed at the same time, and to equal ex-<br/>
tent, to the demobilisation of her own<br/>
forces.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Spain and Chili.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Spaniards had captured a Chilian<br/>
transport, with 250 troops, south of the<br/>
island of Chiloe, and the allied fleet is re-<br/>
ported to be blocked by the Spanish fri-<br/>
gates Numancia and Blanca in an inlet<br/>
near Ancud, in the same island. The<br/>
allies have sunk a vessel in the channel of<br/>
the inlet, and stretched chains across to<br/>
prevent the Spaniards approaching.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Germany.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The affairs between Austria and Prussia<br/>
continue still in a critical state. Austria,<br/>
in replying to the Prussian note of the<br/>
15th of April, has submitted propositions<br/>
for mutual disarmament. The proposi-<br/>
tions are as follows:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That Austria and Prussia shall each<br/>
restore their military establishments to<br/>
the STATUS QUO which existed prior to the<br/>
late defensive measures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the 25th of April be the date<br/>
fixed for mutual disarmament.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria consents to disarm on that<br/>
date, but is even willing that Prussia<br/>
should disarm only on the 26th of April.<br/>
The Austrian proposition is stated to have<br/>
been communicated confidentially to Paris<br/>
and London, where it has been cordially<br/>
approved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian answer to the above note<br/>
was despatched on April 21 to Vienna.<br/>
It says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian armaments have been<br/>
caused by the Austrian military move-<br/>
ments in the vicinity of the Prussian<br/>
frontier. As soon as Prussia receives<br/>
authentic intelligence that the Austrian<br/>
armaments have been countermanded, in<br/>
the same proportion as the Austrian<br/>
armaments have been countermanded, in<br/>
the same proportion as the Austrian dis-<br/>
armament is proceeded with will that of<br/>
Prussia take place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Vienna 'Presse' of April 24 pub-<br/>
lishes a telegram from Berlin, stating<br/>
that in the above despatch addressed by<br/>
Prussia to Austria, the former Power ex-<br/>
press the expectation that the German<br/>
governments which have armed in ad-<br/>
dition to Austria will likewise counter-<br/>
mand their armaments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Count von Bismarck, in his reply to<br/>
an address in favour of peace, presented<br/>
by the Chamber of Commerce, says:—-<br/>
The king will, if possible, avoid war,<br/>
but the government cannot be guided<br/>
by considerations of national economy<br/>
alone. If war be necessary, the king<br/>
trusts in the tried readiness of the Cham-<br/>
ber of Commerce to make sacrifices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA AND GERMANY.—-The latest ad-<br/>
vices from Berlin lead to the conclusion<br/>
that peace will be preserved. The Prus-<br/>
sian people have expressed a strong dis-<br/>
inclination for the war. The Federal<br/>
Diet has referred the Prussian proposal<br/>
of Reform to a special committee. The<br/>
middle States are holding a conference at<br/>
Augsburg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.—-Details are given of the late<br/>
attempt to assassinate the Czar. The<br/>
peasant who frustrated the assassin's aim<br/>
has been ennobled. The Minister of<br/>
Police has resigned, and been succeeded<br/>
by General Schouvaloff.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KINGDOM OF ITALY.—-The grand total<br/>
of the army is over 350,000 men, of whom<br/>
240,000 might be mobilised at the short-<br/>
est notice; but official accounts deny pre-<br/>
parations for war.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest Intelligence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"LONDON AND CHINA EXPRESS" OFFICE,
Thursday, April 26, 3 P. M.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia.-—The text-of the Prussian<br/>
despatch in answer to the last Austrian<br/>
note has been published. It is dated<br/>
"Berlin April, 21." Count Bismarck<br/>
says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The King's Government accepts with<br/>
satisfaction the proposal contained in<br/>
Count Menadorff's despatch of April 18.<br/>
In accordance there-with, as soon as the<br/>
King's Government receives authentic in-<br/>
formation that his Majesty the Emperor<br/>
has ordered the displacement of troops re-<br/>
quired by preparation for war against<br/>
Prussia to be countermanded, his Majesty<br/>
the King will also upon his side immediate-<br/>
ly give orders for the reduction of those<br/>
portions of the army which have been in-<br/>
creased since the 27th of last month. His<br/>
Majesty will then have the execution of<br/>
this order carried out in the same degree,<br/>
and within the same period, in which the<br/>
corresponding diminution of the prepara-<br/>
tions for war of the Imperial Austrian ar-<br/>
my is actually effected. With regard to<br/>
the degree and the periods within which<br/>
these latter measures may take place, the<br/>
King's Government will therefore await<br/>
further communications from the Austrian<br/>
Cabinet, so as to be able accordingly to<br/>
keep equal step in its own disarmaments<br/>
with those of Austria. The King's Govern-<br/>
ment further assumes that the military<br/>
preparations commenced by other German<br/>
Governments will also be countermanded,<br/>
and that no further cause for measures of<br/>
military precaution may be given to it by<br/>
a continuation of their renewal."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE REFORM BILL.-—The Owl,—-gene-<br/>
rally well informed on such matters, says<br/>
—"In the case of an absolute defeat on the<br/>
second reading the Ministry will imme-<br/>
diately resign. If, however, as is possible,<br/>
the majority should barely reach two fi-<br/>
gures, thereby perilling the ultimate at-<br/>
tainment of a reduction of the franchise,<br/>
we believe it will result in the immediate<br/>
secession from the Cabinet of Earl Russell<br/>
and Mr. Gladstone. They will most pro-<br/>
bably be accompanied by advanced follow-<br/>
ers, such as Lord Hartington and Mr.<br/>
Goschen, leaving a portion of the existing<br/>
Ministry, who will be ready to form a<br/>
Coalition Government, with Lord Stanley,<br/>
Mr. Walpole, and Mr. Henley. The Oppo-<br/>
sition which will thus be formed will be a<br/>
strongly cohesive party, headed by Mr.<br/>
Gladstone, and might fairly be estimated<br/>
at a strength of about 250, exclusive of<br/>
the Irish members. Our opinion is that a<br/>
Coalition Government might last for two<br/>
or three Sessions, when a new general<br/>
election will have to settle the future bal-<br/>
ance of parties. Our readers will under-<br/>
stand that we give this simply as the pro-<br/>
bability of the hour, which may be altered<br/>
at any moment by current events."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
OVER TRADE REPORT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last number of this report was<br/>
published on the 13th of May. In the<br/>
course of the fortnight which had then<br/>
just elapsed, the Hongkong Mint had<br/>
been opened by the GOVERNOR, and a<br/>
very large quantity of silver, amounting<br/>
to over $2,000,000 had been received for<br/>
coinage. It was found however, that al-<br/>
though the Mint was opened the new<br/>
dollars did not immediately begin to flow<br/>
from it. Some accidents to the machin-<br/>
ery, which occurred at the outset, were<br/>
speedily repaired, but it was found ne-<br/>
cessary to presmelt almost all the silver<br/>
received from the bankers before it was<br/>
possible to take an assay and give a re-<br/>
ceipt. It consisted almost entirely of old<br/>
Mexican dollars so dirty and impure that<br/>
the true weight of silver they contained<br/>
could only be determined by this process,<br/>
which necessitated considerable delay,<br/>
and occupied the melting furnaces at a<br/>
time when they were required for the<br/>
purpose of casting the silver into bars<br/>
for the rolling mills. At first, moreover,<br/>
it was found that the peculiar difficulties<br/>
in the way of producing the dollars, ow-<br/>
ing to the peculiarities of the design,<br/>
were almost too much for the coining<br/>
machinery with which the establishment<br/>
had been furnished.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—SIR HARRY and Lady PARKER have<br/>
returned to Yokohama after a stay at<br/>
Yeddo which is described as having been<br/>
very successful whether regarded merely<br/>
as a pleasure excursion or as an effort to<br/>
increase the familiarity of intercourse<br/>
between the English and Japanese. In<br/>
the early part of their week's stay at<br/>
Yeddo they visited the palace and<br/>
grounds of the Prince of SATSUMA, this<br/>
being the first time that any foreigners<br/>
have been allowed inside a Daimio's<br/>
"Yashki." On the 10th instant, they<br/>
gave a ball which passed off in a highly<br/>
triumphant manner and the local papers<br/>
chronicle with wonder and admiration<br/>
the astonishing fact that there were nine-<br/>
teen ladies present, "a most unusual<br/>
number."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—By news received from Chefoo, we<br/>
hear that a letter had been received at<br/>
that port from Consul MORRISON, who<br/>
was reported some time back to have<br/>
been murdered between Peking and Han-<br/>
kow whilst on an overland journey to the<br/>
latter place. No particulars having been<br/>
stated as to the causes which detaining<br/>
Mr. MORRISON so long on his journey, have<br/>
led to the report of his murder having<br/>
been circulated, and raised considerable<br/>
fears for his safety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—JUST as we are going to Press we learn<br/>
that a combined British and Chinese ex-<br/>
pedition has started to attack the pirati-<br/>
cal haunts on the West Coast. Comman-<br/>
der St. JOHN R. N. has the command of<br/>
the British Gun-boats, and a Military<br/>
force from Canton will rendezvous with<br/>
the latter and proceed to the attack. The<br/>
Prefect of Canton proceeds as Chinese<br/>
Civil Commissioner and is accompanied<br/>
by Mr. W. F. MAYERS British Vice-Con-<br/>
sul at Canton as British Commissioner.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Future of China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the exception of the immediate<br/>
neighbourhood of the capital, the empire<br/>
of China is, for the moment, at peace.<br/>
But how long will it remain so. Not for<br/>
very long we fear. Nothing but a change<br/>
of dynasty will ever restore sufficient vi-<br/>
gour to the governing powers to enable<br/>
them to put an end to the tyranny, cor-<br/>
ruption and misrule that prevail through-<br/>
out the length and breadth of China and<br/>
which invariably results in anarchy and<br/>
rebellion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Little or nothing has lately been heard<br/>
of the Nien-fei in the country round<br/>
about Hankow, but it does not therefore<br/>
follow that they have dissolved and no<br/>
longer exist to trouble the peace of the<br/>
mandarins, or disturb the regular current<br/>
of commercial speculation in that city.<br/>
They are not many miles off and only<br/>
wait a favourable opportunity to advance<br/>
again and renew the scenes of plunder<br/>
that disgraced the Chinese Government<br/>
and name some few short months ago.<br/>
We have not had any news from Shensi<br/>
or Shansi lately. Rumour has had no-<br/>
thing to report of the formidable Moha-<br/>
medan rebels who kept the whole coun-<br/>
try to the Northward of the Yang-tse in<br/>
a state of anarchy. They are resting on<br/>
their oars somewhere, rejoicing in the<br/>
plunder gathered in during the past sea-<br/>
son. The Imperial forces, heaven save<br/>
the mark, are in winter quarters also we<br/>
presume, for since the defeat and death<br/>
of Sam-ko-lin-sin we have heard little or<br/>
nothing of them. If no news is good<br/>
news we might be justified in assuming<br/>
that the Northern and Western provin-<br/>
ces of China were tranquil and obedient,<br/>
but to jump to any such conclusion would<br/>
assuredly be premature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
China, thanks to the assistance given<br/>
to the mandarins by our government is<br/>
in a far better position now than it was<br/>
three years ago. The worst enemies that<br/>
the Chinese government had ever to en-<br/>
counter,—-the Taiping hosts and their<br/>
fanatic leaders,—-have been crushed out.<br/>
British policy has strengthened the hands<br/>
of the Chinese authorities, in every way:<br/>
morally, physically, and financially. We<br/>
have recognized their claims and submit-<br/>
ted ourselves to their jurisdiction when<br/>
they had neither the desire to put for-<br/>
ward the one, nor the power to enforce<br/>
the other. We have compelled other<br/>
nations by our example and by our in-<br/>
fluence to recognize the rights of the<br/>
Chinese Government when these other<br/>
nations, would have, if left to themselves,<br/>
ignored all rights but the right of the<br/>
most powerful. We have strengthened<br/>
the hands of the mandarins and elevated
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued on page 4th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
June 21st 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The last European Mail.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the arrival of the Siamese Steam-<br/>
er Chow Phya on the 17th inst, we<br/>
have received dates by telegram from<br/>
Europe to 12th May, and from U. S.<br/>
Am. to the middle of April.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At our latest dates the political re-<br/>
lations of Prussia and Austria were<br/>
unsettled as on a volcano's crater that<br/>
might any hour break out with the<br/>
most fearful eruptions. Italy had<br/>
made herself ready for a strong ad-<br/>
vance upon Venitia. Negotiations<br/>
were being made for a simultaneous<br/>
disarmament of the troops of Prussia<br/>
and Austria with some probability that<br/>
they would be successful. France<br/>
was still maintaining ostensibly the<br/>
most perfect reticence with regard to<br/>
all the belligerant movements of cen-<br/>
tral and southern Europe, and standing<br/>
afar off in regard to any aid she might<br/>
render in restoring peace. This, con-<br/>
sidering her relations to all those states,<br/>
and the power she is proud of know-<br/>
ing she has of turning the balances of<br/>
of those nations which way she will,<br/>
looks ominous. Prussia, it should<br/>
seem would not have ventured to have<br/>
done what she has, without the secret<br/>
sanction of Napoleon III, nor Italy to<br/>
take up arms against Austria without<br/>
a cue from the same Monarch.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rome is sitting on her seven hills<br/>
with spirits greatly perplexed. She<br/>
knows not but she may herself be in<br/>
a moment engulfed with His Serene<br/>
Holiness the Pope at her head. His<br/>
Holiness is thought to be looking out<br/>
anxiously for some hole or den of a<br/>
rock into which he can flee for safety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the meantime a great commercial<br/>
crisis is coming over Europe and in-<br/>
deed has already been inaugurated.<br/>
Many large Houses in India are now<br/>
feeling the same commercial-quake.<br/>
Some have tumbled to ruins and many<br/>
others are reeling to and fro.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The terrible cholera threatens to<br/>
sweep over India, Europe, and America<br/>
this summer. We are glad to hear<br/>
from some quarters that it is anti-<br/>
cipated with great calmness, sobriety,<br/>
and cleanliness, which if universal would<br/>
almost annihilate the scourge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague, which threatened<br/>
to make all Englishmen as lean as<br/>
Pharaoh's famished kine, appears to<br/>
be rapidly declining. We hope and<br/>
trust that they, together with their<br/>
cousins on the western side of the At-<br/>
lantic, will have thoroughly learned by<br/>
this scourge that neither beef nor mut-<br/>
ton is the main staff of life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The political aspects of the U. S. are<br/>
still extremely exciting. The war be-<br/>
tween Liberty and Slavery has not yet<br/>
ended. We hope and trust that it<br/>
will not again take to swords, powder,<br/>
shot, and shell; still we regard it as<br/>
scarcely less exciting or less momen-<br/>
tous now than when those weapons<br/>
were the most fearfully employed. The<br/>
Civil Right's Bill, our readers will per-<br/>
ceive, has become a law of the land over<br/>
the President's veto. It seems to us a<br/>
most reasonable and righteous Bill,<br/>
securing as it does the full citizenship<br/>
of all persons born in the U. S. It was<br/>
mainly because the blacks were not<br/>
excepted in the Bill that it met with<br/>
the powerful opposition it did. It is<br/>
impossible to predict with accuracy<br/>
what will be the immediate results of<br/>
this great advance of the army of<br/>
Liberty. We feel sure that its ultimate<br/>
influences will be glorious; for Jehovah<br/>
himself is working out the great prin-<br/>
ciples of Liberty in the U. S. and we<br/>
believe will surely conduct her armies<br/>
into Canaan.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee, No. 2
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As in our last we bid good night<br/>
to our readers at the Landing of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission in Petchaburee,<br/>
we would now resume our narrative<br/>
from the Sea Bird the next morning.<br/>
Having heard, on our arrival late at<br/>
night, naught but good news from<br/>
our children and other friends at the<br/>
Mission, we retired to our berth on<br/>
board the boat, and enjoyed a night<br/>
of the most refreshing sleep, having<br/>
left the mosquitoe territory quite be-<br/>
hind us. We and our friends all awoke<br/>
early for mutual greetings, which were<br/>
full of gladness because of the good-<br/>
ness of our Heavenly Father to us<br/>
and ours, and to all the children of<br/>
men. The air of the morning was<br/>
cool and delightful. All the vegeta-<br/>
ble tribes and families were teeming<br/>
with life, and exerting themselves to<br/>
their utmost in their varied modes and<br/>
powers in praise of their Maker. Birds<br/>
to us of unusual note and of the most<br/>
beautiful plumage, were singing their<br/>
morning ditties. The bellowing of cows<br/>
and calves and the crewing of cocks<br/>
and cackling of hens carried us back<br/>
in the quickness of thought to our<br/>
boyhood days and filled us with the<br/>
pleasantest associations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Petchaburee Mission is situated<br/>
on the left or west bank of the beauti-<br/>
ful river of that name, about 15 miles<br/>
from its mouth, if measured by the<br/>
many bends of the river, and not more<br/>
than 8 miles by a straight course. The<br/>
Mission was commenced in June 1861,<br/>
by Rev. D. McGilvary, and Rev. S.<br/>
G. McFarland and their families, be-<br/>
ing a detachment from the Presbyte-<br/>
rian Mission in Bangkok. Its loca-<br/>
tion is peculiarly pleasant, situated a<br/>
little below the town, enjoying a good<br/>
degree of retirement from its din, tur-<br/>
moil, and corruption, and being next<br/>
neighbor above to one of the smallest<br/>
and consequently stillest of temples,<br/>
which is almost entirely concealed by<br/>
lovely clumps of bamboos, and the<br/>
grandest specimens of the poà tree,<br/>
the palmyra palm, the tamarind, the<br/>
mango, etc. In their rear is a little<br/>
forest of many kinds of trees all ever-<br/>
green, as most of the trees of Siam<br/>
are. Under its shade reside a few fa-<br/>
milies of priceless souls for whom<br/>
Christ died, and to whom he has sent<br/>
his servants. Adjoining the premises<br/>
on the upper side is the residence of<br/>
an officer of government, overshadow-<br/>
ed by bamboos and the magnificent<br/>
mango. In the front is a river of clear<br/>
water so pure and life giving that the<br/>
kings of Siam must have all their<br/>
drinking water taken from it. This river<br/>
is nearly full three months of the year,<br/>
overflows its banks three times for<br/>
many days together, and is for the rest<br/>
of the time generally shallow at that<br/>
place so as to be easily forded by foot-<br/>
men. It is just there remarkable for<br/>
running always the downward way,<br/>
and sometimes with great power. On<br/>
the bank opposite the Mission premi-<br/>
ses is another evergreen forest with<br/>
here and there a native dwelling.<br/>
Looking up the river on the west side<br/>
some 180 rods you will see five or<br/>
six brick buildings separated a little<br/>
from each other, built in European<br/>
style, neatly finished with white stucco<br/>
work, and each furnished with a front<br/>
fence and landing of the same mate-<br/>
rial. They are the country residences<br/>
of Siamese princes and lords. A lit-<br/>
tle above this you will see a beautiful<br/>
bridge crossing the river, which will<br/>
for the moment lead you to fancy that<br/>
you are at home in a christian land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Mission premises comprise<br/>
about an acre of land. Their two<br/>
dwelling houses of two stories are ra-<br/>
ther small, yet quite comfortable, and<br/>
becoming the simplicity and neatness<br/>
which should always characterize the<br/>
dwellings of the ambassadors of the<br/>
cross of Christ. One of them is of<br/>
brick with an earthen tiled roof; the<br/>
other of brick and wood thatched with<br/>
attap palm leaves. They are enclosed<br/>
by a fence common to them both.<br/>
The front part of it is strikingly uni-<br/>
que, having brick pillars instead of<br/>
wooden posts eight feet apart, and<br/>
the spaces occupied by a cheap and<br/>
tasty wooden paling. The pillars<br/>
are neatly finished with white stucco,<br/>
and contrast finely with the na-<br/>
tural wood color of the paling. As<br/>
the river was found to be cutting off<br/>
their front at a fearful rate, the bre-<br/>
thren, by the advice and aid of their<br/>
good friend the Lieutenant Governor,<br/>
made, last year, a firm brick dike, and<br/>
constructed a small breakwater a few<br/>
yards above it, by which means<br/>
their front has been saved and great-<br/>
ly improved, and made into a very<br/>
pleasant promenade ground, with a good<br/>
flight of steps down to the water, fur-<br/>
nished with comfortable seats at its<br/>
head for both an observatory and an<br/>
airy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We could not but admire the sim-<br/>
ple and neat arrangement of their<br/>
door yard with their white stucco<br/>
walks, some in large squares and some<br/>
in graceful curves and ovales. The<br/>
ground was tastefully occupied with<br/>
some of the most beautiful shrubbery<br/>
the country affords. One of them,<br/>
though not at all uncommon in Bang-<br/>
kok never seemed to us so perfectly<br/>
charming, and we cannot refrain from<br/>
discribing it. It is called in the Sia-<br/>
mese tongue tom-p'oot: but what bota-<br/>
nists would denominate it we have not<br/>
time now to search out. Cape Jessi-<br/>
mine is the name, we think, by which<br/>
the English know it. It is here a bush<br/>
growing to the height of from 6 to 8 feet,<br/>
generally with but one stem or stalk,<br/>
but sometimes with three or more.<br/>
Its main limbs branch off near the<br/>
ground, and extending upward with<br/>
the most pleasing crooks and curves<br/>
amplify in all the wildness and beauty<br/>
of nature, forming a most graceful top<br/>
from 10 to 16 feet in circumference<br/>
and remarkable for being rather flat<br/>
than otherwise. Their leaves are ovates<br/>
of small size, the longest being not<br/>
more than four inches in length, of<br/>
the richest green and highest polish.<br/>
Their flowers are the purest white<br/>
you ever saw, without stamens, and con-<br/>
sisting of from 15 to 20 petals charm-<br/>
ingly plated and ruffled. They al-<br/>
ways illustrate clearly to our mind the<br/>
purity and sweetness of heaven. The<br/>
disk of the corol is about the size of<br/>
a Mexican dollar. They are as deli-<br/>
cately fragrant as they are delicately<br/>
formed, being strikingly contrasted<br/>
in this respect with many of the flow-<br/>
ers of Siam which are too powerful<br/>
on the olfactory organs to be agree-<br/>
able. What adds peculiar interest to<br/>
these charming little bushes, is the<br/>
fact that they are perpetually in blos-<br/>
som. But now, since the rains have<br/>
began to fall, they are in their very<br/>
best estate. There are many hundreds<br/>
of full blossoms on each bush, and four<br/>
times that number of beautiful white<br/>
flower buds, all pointing directly hea-<br/>
venward, and contrasting finely with a<br/>
less number of deep green and shi-<br/>
ning leaves, ever looking directly up-<br/>
ward to catch every sun-beam and<br/>
every dew-drop their Maker may be<br/>
pleased to grant them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our own home rose, always the<br/>
queen among flowers, was also there,<br/>
though an exotic, imparting life and<br/>
loveliness to the place. And to crown<br/>
all, there stands in front of each house<br/>
within the fence a thrifty tamarind tree<br/>
to break the glare of the clear sky at<br/>
midday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus our readers will see that the<br/>
Petchabaree Missionaries have a<br/>
charming place to live in, and to study<br/>
and preach the gospel to the heathen<br/>
about them. And we would hereby<br/>
bear them witness that they have<br/>
made a good beginning, and that they<br/>
seem intent in giving themselves<br/>
wholly to the work of the "ministry of<br/>
the Word." They have formed a lit-<br/>
tle church with a native membership<br/>
of three adults, one of whom is being<br/>
educated for the ministry, and is al-<br/>
ready employed as a good deal of his<br/>
time as a colporteur. Though it be in-<br/>
deed to them a day of small things in<br/>
one sense, it is a great day in the light<br/>
of eternity. Who shall estimate the<br/>
greatness of the salvation that has al-<br/>
ready been wrought in those three<br/>
souls if they have indeed trusted in<br/>
Christ! All the material wealth of<br/>
this world would be but as the small<br/>
dust of the balance when weighed<br/>
with it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is now, among a large part<br/>
of their charge, a lively interest mani-<br/>
fested in hearing the gospel, and we<br/>
may confidently look for a great<br/>
work of grace among them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer "Chow Phya" arrived<br/>
here on the 17th inst having been<br/>
only 3 days and 10 hours on her pas-<br/>
sage from Singapore. By her we have<br/>
dates from London up to 26th April,<br/>
from America to 12th April, from<br/>
India to 17th May, from Hong Kong<br/>
to 30th May, and from Singapore to<br/>
9th June.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The British Schooner "Waterlily"<br/>
had arrived at Singapore before the<br/>
"Chow Phya" left for this port, and<br/>
had been ashore for 9 days on a sand<br/>
bank to the S. E. of Kallatin river.<br/>
She had to dispose of a part of her<br/>
cargo to pay the expenses of getting<br/>
off the sand bank.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Master Attendant of Singapore<br/>
informed Capt. Orton before sailing,<br/>
that 15 junks had recently cleared out<br/>
from that port for the Gulf of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rice Crop.—-Letters from Pet-<br/>
chaburee dated the 15th instant state,<br/>
that no rain of any consequence had<br/>
fallen there for many days, and that<br/>
the work of preparing for a new crop<br/>
of rice had been suspended. No part<br/>
of a new crop had then been planted,<br/>
which we suppose is the state of the<br/>
business in all parts of the land. Still<br/>
the people feel no alarm as regards<br/>
their next rice crop, because this year<br/>
there is an intercalary 8th month, and<br/>
the first 8th month, they say, is al-<br/>
ways too dry for planting rice. As in<br/>
their opinion the next 8th month is<br/>
the settled time for rice farming, and<br/>
as the Calendar gives them a double<br/>
8th month, because their reckoning<br/>
had got ahead of the true time 30 days,<br/>
they quietly wait for all that error to<br/>
be corrected. Then, if the rains hold<br/>
up, they will become alarmed. Yesterday<br/>
was the beginning of their 2nd and 8th<br/>
month and sure enough the rain came<br/>
down again powerfully, and the clouds<br/>
look as if they were prepared for a<br/>
wet time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PIRACY.—-The last mail from Sin-<br/>
gapore brought us a report that a squad<br/>
of 15 small junks of very suspicious ap-<br/>
pearance, had been recently fitted out<br/>
in that port, with guns and ammunition<br/>
for a cruise in the gulf of Siam. It is<br/>
much to be feared that the expedition<br/>
will prove to be a piratical one. We<br/>
are credibly informed that the Siamese<br/>
government have taken alarm by this<br/>
report, and have determined to des-<br/>
patch H. S. M. G. B. Impregnable<br/>
for a cruise in the gulf to watch for<br/>
piratical craft.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SNAKE BITE.-—We have just learn-<br/>
ed that a Laos man, an uncle of one<br/>
of our workmen, was bitten by a snake<br/>
while in his bed and died in a few<br/>
minutes. His bed was on the floor,<br/>
as all the poorer classes sleep, and had<br/>
mosquitoe bars suspended over it.<br/>
His wife was in another bed in the<br/>
same room and all the lights had been<br/>
extinguished. In the dead of night<br/>
the man cried out saying that a snake<br/>
had bitten him. His wife immediate-<br/>
ly arose and struck up a light, and went<br/>
to the bed of her husband and found<br/>
him dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very singular that in a coun-<br/>
try where no less than 15 kinds of<br/>
venomous serpents are found, that we<br/>
rarely hear of a fatal snake-bite, and<br/>
more especially so, as none of the peo-<br/>
ple have any thing to shield their feet<br/>
and legs like shoes and boots.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SYED HUSSIAN.-—a relative of the<br/>
Rajah of Kedda, has we learn recent-<br/>
ly arrived. He has become somewhat<br/>
famous as a disturber of the peace of<br/>
the Province of Wellesley, and has<br/>
been repeatedly arrested for his mis-<br/>
demeanors. Whether he has come<br/>
hither under arrest for trial at this<br/>
court as a Siamese subject, we are not<br/>
informed. Documents relative to the<br/>
course he has taken in Keddah and the<br/>
Province of Wellesley have just been<br/>
received by the Siamese government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BOLDNESS AS EDITORS.—-One of the<br/>
most respectable and important native<br/>
officers connected with the commerce<br/>
of Siam, said to us yesterday in reply<br/>
to the question, what can we do to<br/>
increase the usefulness of our Siamese<br/>
Recorder, promptly said, “Fear no<br/>
man. Be bold in exposing all the evil<br/>
you see, and faithfully report in praise<br/>
of all the good.” We were struck with<br/>
the wisdom of the reply as it came<br/>
from the lips of a heathen. May the<br/>
Lord help us to follow this sage counsel
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SHENANDOAH.—-We learn that the<br/>
American Consul has been officially<br/>
notified that the “Shenandoah,” an<br/>
American Man-of-war screw steamer<br/>
of 1400 tons, may be expected to visit<br/>
Siam in about a month. She is coming<br/>
to salute His Majesty and pay him the<br/>
best respects of the American govern-<br/>
ment, while at the same time she will<br/>
look after the welfare of all American<br/>
residents in the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This “Shenandoah” is no name<br/>
sake of the Anglo-Confederate pirate,<br/>
and has no sort of relation to her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MONS. AUBERET.—It is fully con-<br/>
firmed that Monsieur Aubaret is to be<br/>
here about the 1st August, and to re-<br/>
sume his official duties as Consul for<br/>
the French. We hope and trust that<br/>
he and all parties concerned in<br/>
his former administration have learn-<br/>
ed much practical wisdom during the<br/>
period of his absence, and that all the<br/>
wheels of the government, and consu-<br/>
late, and editorial department, in which<br/>
the three parties are united may be<br/>
kept well lubricated with the oil of<br/>
urbanity and faithfulness. As for our-<br/>
selves we are determined to exert our<br/>
utmost to this end, making no unne-<br/>
cessary allusions to the past that shall<br/>
be likely to stir up strife; and we trust<br/>
that M. Aubaret and the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment will do the same. With<br/>
such views we are glad that he is to<br/>
return and hope to welcome him here<br/>
in the appointed time. We feel a deep<br/>
interest in the French expedition up<br/>
the Mei-song river in Cambodia, and<br/>
would with Mons. Aubaret and the<br/>
French government, put our shoulder,<br/>
feeble though it be, to the wheel of<br/>
pushing it onward and giving it every<br/>
success.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">52</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>do Garden</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">66</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">67</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY</td>
 <td>Nassu</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">106</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow {{< news/indent2 >}} do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer {{< news/indent2 >}} do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow {{< news/indent2 >}} do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer {{< news/indent2 >}} do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">225</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">125</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">54</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">30</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>with seed</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td>Nominally</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Gechin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">700</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">245</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">225</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD</td>
 <td>3@4 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"4@5 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"5@6 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6@7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">370</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>7 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Ilaelit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>MUSSELS</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 3/4 P</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Ticals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GOLDLEAF–-Tic. 16¾ P Ticals weight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE-–On Singapere 3 percent pre-<br/>
mium 3 ds. Hongkong 2 percent discount<br/>
30 ds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS-–Owing to the scarcity of<br/>
foreign shipping good freights have been<br/>
paid to small craft, and may now be<br/>
quoted at 50 cents per picul to Hong<br/>
kong for vessels taking all their cargo<br/>
inside the bar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We report the following departures<br/>
since 24th May viz:–-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “St. Paul” with 570 piculs<br/>
sapanwood, 1868 piculs sugar, 499 piculs<br/>
horns, 1290 piculs paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark “New York” with 6000<br/>
pls. rice, 666 pls. sapanwood, 550 pls.<br/>
pepper, 225 pls. teakseed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bremen brig “Amazone” with 4529<br/>
pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian ship “Dur West” with 13250<br/>
pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Norw. bark “Frey” with 4700 pls. rice,<br/>
25 pls. sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Tylong” with 2940 pls.<br/>
rice, 1179 sapanwood, 1450 sugar, 979<br/>
pls. pepper, 9 pls. horns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Kim Seng Hong” with<br/>
8000 pls. rice, 600 pls. sapanwood, 200<br/>
pls. sugar, 300 pls. pepper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch bark “Hellevoetsluis” with<br/>
9320 pls. rice, 935 pls. sapanwood, 1059<br/>
pls. pepper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Seaman’s Bride” with 2090<br/>
pls. rice, 65 pls. pepper, 252 pls. teakseed,<br/>
125 pls. paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian bark “Duppel” with 850 pls.<br/>
sapanwood, 90 pls. teakseed, 1200 pls.<br/>
paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bremen schooner “Themis” with 4970<br/>
pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
French bark “Medoc” with 12000 pls.<br/>
rice. All the above vessels have sailed<br/>
for Hong Kong. The following have<br/>
sailed for Tiensin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark “Diamond City” with 1425<br/>
pls. sapanwood, 1943 pls. sugar, 489 pls.<br/>
pepper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Danish brig “Johanna” with 447 pls.<br/>
sapanwood, 3000 pls. sugar.<br/>
The following have sailed for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
American schooner “Jacmal Packet”<br/>
with 418 pls. rice, 350 pls. sapanwood,<br/>
510 pls. sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam Steamer “Chow Phya” with 68<br/>
pls. rice, 1968 pls. sapanwood, 1234 pls.<br/>
sugar, 50 pls. horns, 46 pls. silk.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A FEARFUL INSTMENT OF WAR.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GAZETTE DE MIDI states that a new<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
torpedo of more destructive kind than any<br/>
hitherto invented has just been tried in<br/>
the dockyard of Castignean, Toulon, with<br/>
complete success. The VAUBAN ship-of-<br/>
war, attacked by a boat 20 feet long sup-<br/>
plied with a spur armed with a fulmina-<br/>
ting torpedo, was lifted 8 feet out of the<br/>
water and instantly sunk in consequence<br/>
of an enormous hole in her keel caused<br/>
by the torpedo. The success was the<br/>
more remarkable as the charge of pow-<br/>
der was only six pounds, but it is of a<br/>
new invention, and more powerful than<br/>
any yet tried.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LETTER OF THE QUEEN TO MR. PEABODY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following graceful letter has<br/>
been written by her Majesty to Mr.<br/>
Peabody:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Windsor Castle, March 28, 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen hears that Mr. Peabody<br/>
intends shortly to return to America,<br/>
and she would be sorry that he should<br/>
leave England without being assured<br/>
by herself, how deeply she appreciates<br/>
the noble act of more than princely<br/>
munificence by which he has sought<br/>
to relieve the wants of the poorer class<br/>
of her subjects residing in London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is an act, as the Queen believes,<br/>
wholly without parallel, and which<br/>
will carry its best reward in the con-<br/>
sciousness of having contributed so<br/>
largely to the assistance of those who<br/>
can little help themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen would not, however,<br/>
have been satisfied without giving Mr.<br/>
Peabody some public mark of her<br/>
sense of his munificence; and she<br/>
would gladly have conferred upon<br/>
him either a baronetcy or the Grand<br/>
Cross of the Order of the Bath, but<br/>
that she understands Mr. Peabody to<br/>
feel himself debarred from accepting<br/>
such distinctions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It only remains, therefore, for the<br/>
Queen to give Mr. Peabody this assu-<br/>
rance of her personal feelings, which<br/>
she would further wish to mark by<br/>
asking him to accept a miniature por-<br/>
trait of herself, which she will desire<br/>
to have painted for him, and which,<br/>
when finished, can either be sent to<br/>
him to America or given to him on<br/>
the return, which she rejoices to hear,<br/>
he meditates, to the country that owes<br/>
him so much.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mr. PEABODY'S REPLY TO THE QUEEN.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following letter has been trans-<br/>
mitted to the Queen, through Earl<br/>
Russell, in reply to her Majesty's<br/>
gracious letter to Mr. Peabody:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The Palace Hotel, Buckingham-gate,
London, April 3d.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Madame,—-I feel sensibly my ina-<br/>
bility to express in adequate terms the<br/>
gratification with which I have read<br/>
the letter which your Majesty has done<br/>
me the high honor of transmitting<br/>
by the hands of Earl Russell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the occasion, which has attracted<br/>
your Majesty's attention, of setting<br/>
apart a portion of my property to<br/>
ameliorate the condition and augment<br/>
the comforts of the poor of London,<br/>
I have been actuated by a deep sense<br/>
of gratitude to God, who has blessed<br/>
me with prosperity, and of attachment<br/>
to this great country, where, under<br/>
your Majesty's benign rule, I have<br/>
received so much personal kindness<br/>
and enjoyed so many years of hap-<br/>
piness
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next to the approval of my own<br/>
conscience, I shall always prize the<br/>
assurance which your Majesty's letter<br/>
conveys to me of the approbation of<br/>
the Queen of England, whose whole<br/>
life has attested that her exalted station<br/>
has in no degree diminished her sym-<br/>
pathy with the humblest of her sub-<br/>
jects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The portrait which your Majesty is<br/>
graciously pleased to bestow on me, I<br/>
shall value as the most precious heir-<br/>
loom that I can leave in the land of<br/>
my birth, where, together with the<br/>
letter which your Majesty has ad-<br/>
dressed to me, it will ever be regarded<br/>
as an evidence of the kindly feeling of<br/>
the Queen of the United Kingdom<br/>
toward a citizen of the United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have the honor to be your Ma-<br/>
jesty's most obedient servant,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To her Majesty the Queen.
GEORGE PEABODY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Studies in Parliament.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From Mr. R. H. Hutton's Sketches of Leading
Politicians.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LORD RUSSELL.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whatever Lord Russell's faults, of all<br/>
statesmen of our own day, he has ever<br/>
shown the most deep and ingrained sym-<br/>
pathy with popular freedom. In this<br/>
respect neither Lord Palmerston nor Mr.<br/>
Gladstone, nor any other of our states-<br/>
men, can really approach him. Mr.<br/>
Gladstone is more tender and humane,<br/>
has a far deeper horror of popular suffer-<br/>
ing, and therefore of war, than Lord<br/>
Russell; for Lord Russell's sympathy<br/>
with freedom, like all true sympathy with<br/>
freedom, has something a little sharp and<br/>
stern about it—a little of the old Puritan<br/>
carelessness whether it be happy or un-<br/>
happy freedom. Perhaps the greatest<br/>
real defect in Lord Russell's political<br/>
character is that profound appreciation of<br/>
the value of his own services which has so<br/>
often led him into acts of disloyalty and<br/>
semi-treachery to his party and closest<br/>
political friends. Yet, in spite of this<br/>
grave deficiency, he has unquestionably<br/>
earned more from this generation than<br/>
any living statesman. He has carried the<br/>
Constitution triumphantly through its<br/>
greatest crisis, and rendered it as dear to,<br/>
as it was once hateful to the English mid-<br/>
dle class. He has forced the principle of<br/>
religious toleration in its widest bearings<br/>
on the Legislature. He has always re-<br/>
sisted sacerdotal tyranny, though some-<br/>
times with the heated anger of a mob,<br/>
rather than the wisdom of a statesman.<br/>
And he has kept England through many a<br/>
great crisis true to the cause of freedom<br/>
on both sides of the Atlantic, in America,<br/>
in France, in Spain, in Italy, and, in a<br/>
futile and helpless way, also in Poland<br/>
and Denmark, and sometimes when scarce-<br/>
ly any other man but himself would have<br/>
had the courage to say what he said, or to<br/>
resist the tide of feeling as he resisted it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mr. GLADSTONE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are three cardinal facts which<br/>
need to be remembered in estimating Mr.<br/>
Gladstone's powers and difficulties as a<br/>
statesman. He is a Lancashire man, an<br/>
Oxford thinker, a Peelite politician. In<br/>
some respects all these influences have<br/>
worked differently, and in some, still more<br/>
important perhaps, they have cooperated.<br/>
In Lancashire he learnt that profound<br/>
appreciation of the might and right of<br/>
capital without which probably no creative<br/>
financier can be made. It was the blood<br/>
of the Lancashire spinner in the late Sir<br/>
Robert Peel, that made him, in spite of<br/>
his protective prejudices, the first great<br/>
modern reformer of our finance,—-the man<br/>
who taught far more liberal theorists how<br/>
to multiply the resources and economize<br/>
the expenditure of the State. Similarly,<br/>
it was the business element, combining<br/>
with great natural powers, in the late M.<br/>
James Wilson which gave fertility and<br/>
tension to his financial conceptions, and<br/>
made them greatly superior in practical<br/>
originality to those of the only consider-<br/>
able Whig financier the country has re-<br/>
cently produced—-Sir G. Cornwall Lewis.<br/>
The Lancashire feeling for capital is<br/>
strong in Mr. Gladstone. These are the<br/>
influences which seem to us to have made<br/>
Mr. Gladstone what he is—a statesman<br/>
of the very highest class of the second<br/>
rank—-or, as some one epigrammatically<br/>
said of him, "a statesman of second-rate<br/>
intellect in a first-rate state of efferves-<br/>
cence," a statesman on whom we could<br/>
scarcely rely to direct our policy in mo-<br/>
ments of difficulty, or to sway alone the<br/>
true mind of Parliament ; but yet a states-<br/>
man of far greater power than those who<br/>
would be competent to guide and lead<br/>
him—-a statesman of wonderful resource<br/>
on all subjects, of fine insight on many—-<br/>
but not a statesman of deeply-matured<br/>
political principles, nor one of the safest<br/>
judgments.—-FRIEND of INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Frontier Expedition and
a new Sanitarium.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Pakchan river, in about 10° 50'<br/>
north latitude, it is the extreme southern<br/>
boundary in Burmah of our Eastern Em-<br/>
pire. To prevent disputes and punish<br/>
dacoits, it has long been wished by both<br/>
the Siamese and the English Governments<br/>
that landmarks should be laid down along<br/>
the watershed of the hills which run al-<br/>
most due north between the sources of<br/>
the Pakchan and the Thoungyeng rivers.<br/>
For this purpose the late Mr. O'Riley and<br/>
Lieutenant Bagge R. E. were appointed<br/>
commissioners for Her Britannic Majesty<br/>
to meet commissioners from the King of<br/>
Siam. The former were instructed not<br/>
to adhere strictly to the watershed line if<br/>
that involved any thing inequitable, or<br/>
even concessions which the Siamese had a<br/>
difficulty in admitting. At the same time,<br/>
on territory [...] be really ours, our<br/>
subjects were [..] to be exposed to undue<br/>
influence on the part of the Siamese, and<br/>
they were to be promised exemption from<br/>
taxation, the establishment of English<br/>
influence being much more important<br/>
than revenue. The range of hills which<br/>
forms the boundary is described as a long<br/>
line of mural limestone from 500 to 1000<br/>
feet above the plain, which stretches a<br/>
way to the sea for from eighty to forty<br/>
miles from Maulmain south to the Pak-<br/>
chan, not unlike the Concan of Bombay.<br/>
Starting from Maulmain the Commis-<br/>
sioners met those from the king of Siam<br/>
in the beginning of February 1865, on<br/>
the left bank of the Attaran. There a<br/>
shed was erected in the centre of our<br/>
camp, the Union Jack floated in the<br/>
breeze, a guard of honour presented arms,<br/>
and in this "Jungle council hall" the<br/>
three Siamese were received with the<br/>
dignity due to them, for one was the son<br/>
of a former prime minister and had been<br/>
in England, another was a chief of the<br/>
Talains and the third a chief of the<br/>
Karens. They were presented with the<br/>
rich rugs on which they sat, and after<br/>
having come to a general understanding,<br/>
the last alone was left to accompany our<br/>
officers in their toilsome duty, the two<br/>
former being on a mission from the king<br/>
to the great pagoda of Rangoon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was no easy matter to find the true<br/>
watershed line in an unexplored country<br/>
which seems to consist of a confused mass<br/>
of elevations and depressions like so many<br/>
caterpillars. Marching up low hills co-<br/>
vered with jungle, and down again, pene-<br/>
trating forests filled with malaria, except<br/>
where else the pines sent forth a refreshing<br/>
odour, tracing the course of rivers whose<br/>
limestone boulders and virgin cascades<br/>
make them as beautiful as they are un-<br/>
navigable, and that in a tropical country,<br/>
is no easy task. At last after five days<br/>
search, from the top of Engding-toung,<br/>
a well-known rock 1900 feet above the<br/>
sea, Mr. O’Riley and Lieutenant Bagge<br/>
obtained such a view of the surrounding<br/>
country as enabled them to map the ser-<br/>
ried peaks in regular order according to<br/>
the ordinary laws of upheaval. On one<br/>
side and the other the telescope showed<br/>
the streams flowing down the Yomarange,<br/>
and after that, the work was simple though<br/>
most laborious. All along the watershed<br/>
was followed up and its more prominent<br/>
peaks dotted with cairns, till it began to<br/>
trend south-east into Siam. There, as<br/>
the Siamese have always claimed both<br/>
sides of the line as their territory, our<br/>
commissioners thought it right to surren-<br/>
der no less than 296 square miles. The<br/>
highest hill reached in the course of the<br/>
survey was Moolayit. This is a gigantic<br/>
mass of granite 6,300 feet above the sea<br/>
and accessible only on the northern side.<br/>
On its two distant peaks, like Parismoth,<br/>
stand two pagodas, each of which boasts<br/>
a hair of Gautama’s beard. Their found-<br/>
ers, according to a very common Bud-<br/>
dhist legend, were holy dervishes, who<br/>
agreed to burn fires every night to assure<br/>
each other of their existence. The Ta-<br/>
lains believe that one of them still lives.<br/>
Lieutenant Bagge dilates on the advan-<br/>
tages of this hill as a sanitarium for all<br/>
Burmah. It seems to be superior even<br/>
to Simla for it has abundance of space<br/>
and material for building, good water is<br/>
plentiful, the wild Rhododendron de-<br/>
corates its sides, the road requires but<br/>
few alterations and the summit is only<br/>
seventeen miles from the Houndraw river<br/>
which is navigable from Maulmain by<br/>
boats at all seasons. Population alone is<br/>
scanty, but that will doubtless be attract-<br/>
ed by the time the good people of Maul-<br/>
main begin to spend the hot seasons on<br/>
the top of Moolayit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the well-known landmark of the<br/>
Three Pagodas the boundary northwards<br/>
was lined off with cairns for 99 miles to<br/>
the source of the Thongyeng river. The<br/>
boundary running south to the Pakchan<br/>
has been demarcated this season and is<br/>
not yet reported on. But one sad inci-<br/>
dent has marred the success of this in-<br/>
teresting expedition. M. O’Riley died<br/>
from its effects. He was an honour to<br/>
the Uncovenanted service. None knew<br/>
the mountain tribes of Burmah so well as<br/>
he; none used his influence with them for<br/>
such benevolent purposes. Lieutenant<br/>
Bagge’s remarks on the career and char-<br/>
acter of “the good old man” are within<br/>
the truth, when he describes him as un-<br/>
selfish and kind-hearted, as possessing an<br/>
amount of perseverance and energy un-<br/>
equalled by men of his age and physical<br/>
capacity, and as exhibiting in discussions<br/>
with the Siamese a rare combination of<br/>
firmness and patience, political experience<br/>
and tact. Before Colonel Phayre leaves<br/>
British Burmah for a time, at the close<br/>
of the year, we trust he will be able to<br/>
visit Moolayit and report upon its advan-<br/>
tages.—-FRIEND of INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pulpit Entertainment
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not satisfied with concert and opera,<br/>
circus, and play-house, and dance, there<br/>
is a growing disposition to push the de-<br/>
mand for entertainment up into the<br/>
realm of serious things ; to require that<br/>
lectures shall be entertaining rather than<br/>
instructing, a paraphrase of Punch and<br/>
Judy, adapted to people of literary pre-<br/>
tensions, rather than an earnest, serious<br/>
discussion of important themes ; to make<br/>
the church service a religious entertain-<br/>
ment, composed of opera music and sen-<br/>
sational preaching. Hundreds of people<br/>
prefer an anecdote to an argument, a fine<br/>
voice to a fine thought, a flourish of the<br/>
hand to any exercise of imagination or of<br/>
faith on the preacher's part. The most<br/>
popular preacher in America owes most<br/>
of his success to the fact that, an actor<br/>
by nature, by accident of birth and train-<br/>
ing, he has dropped into the pulpit in-<br/>
stead of being put upon the “boards;”<br/>
and he has transformed his pulpit into a<br/>
stage, where he outdoes both Forrest and<br/>
Booth by the inimitable charm and pow-<br/>
er of his acting. His preaching undoubt-<br/>
edly does immense good ; but his acting<br/>
increases the volume and intensity of the<br/>
popular desire for entertainment, which<br/>
threatens to sweep away everything pre-<br/>
cious and sacred.—-CHRISTIAN ENQUIRER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Feeling at the South
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We could fill up every column of our<br/>
paper with reliable reports of the disloy-<br/>
alty and oppression of the negro which<br/>
prevail throughout the South. There are<br/>
exceptional sections, but hatred of the<br/>
Union, persecution of loyal men and<br/>
outrages upon the freedmen are told of<br/>
all the States, until the heart is sick of<br/>
bearing. To make the testimony com-<br/>
plete, and beyond all cavil, the Congres-<br/>
sional Reconstruction Committee publish<br/>
the evidence gathered by them. The<br/>
witnesses called include the claimants to<br/>
seats in Congress, the Officers in the<br/>
Union army, even leading rebels, repre-<br/>
sentatives of all classes and of all senti-<br/>
ments. Most significant is the fact that<br/>
not a single trustworthy witness yet re-<br/>
ported, believes it will be safe to with-<br/>
draw the Union troops, to discontinue<br/>
the Freedmen's Bureau, or to forbid the<br/>
suspension of the writ of HABEAS CORPUS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We cull out the statements of a few<br/>
which we beg our readers to peruse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Hatch, a regular army officer,<br/>
says of Mississippi: "Excepting in a<br/>
little of the northeastern portion of the<br/>
State of Mississippi I NEVER KNEW ANY<br/>
LOYALTY IN THAT STATE. I DO NOT BE-<br/>
LIEVE THE UNION MEN COULD REMAIN<br/>
THERE IF THERE WERE NO FEDERAL<br/>
TROOPS THERE TO PROTECT THEM."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Grierson, the Cavalry hero, says<br/>
of Alabama: "I think that EVERY CON-<br/>
GRESSMAN ELECTED IN THE STATE OF AL-<br/>
ABAMA, WAS ELECTED FOR HIS DEVOTION<br/>
TO THE CAUSE OF THE REBELLION. In no<br/>
case that I know of was a loyal man<br/>
elected."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Saxton swears that in his opinion<br/>
"a small portion of the people of Geor-<br/>
gia, earnestly desire to fulfill their oblig-<br/>
ations as citizens of the United States,<br/>
but a large majority of the people are<br/>
disloyal at heart, and have no love for<br/>
the Union; they look forward to a time<br/>
when they can set up a separate organi-<br/>
zation for themselves."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. George H. Thomas, who favors<br/>
the admission of the Tennessee dolgation<br/>
to Congress, expressly urges the neces-<br/>
sity of the continuance of martial law<br/>
over the State.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. David L. Stanley, regards the<br/>
Germans of Texas as loyal, but besides<br/>
these "the only Union men in Texas he<br/>
knows of any influence, would be com-<br/>
prised in ten persons, and if we became<br/>
involved in a foreign war, the entire<br/>
population would go over to our enemies."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And this is the tenor of the whole. No<br/>
loyal man can believe the witnesses and<br/>
regard the President's policy of recon-<br/>
struction a safe one, we are confident.—-<br/>
Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Cholera.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(18th.) Sir J. C. JERVOISE (Hants, L.)<br/>
asked the Vice-President of the Commit-<br/>
tee of Council on Education whether the<br/>
attention of the medical officers of the<br/>
Privy Council had been directed to a<br/>
statement in the MORNING STAR of the<br/>
25th of October, 1863, that the Emperor<br/>
and Empress of the French had visited<br/>
the cholera hospitals in Paris, and that M.<br/>
Gustave Girard had made experiments in<br/>
demonstration of the non-infectious na-<br/>
ture of the cholera.-—Mr. BRUCE replied<br/>
that the medical officer of the Privy<br/>
Council was cognizant of the conduct of<br/>
the illustrious personages in question,<br/>
whose courage and humanity on that oc-<br/>
casion had excited such general admira-<br/>
tion. (Hear, hear.) He was also aware<br/>
of the daring experiments made by M.<br/>
Girard, who had placed upon his own<br/>
tongue the moisture from the brow and<br/>
the fur from the tongue of a man who<br/>
had died of cholera. But, in the first<br/>
place, such an experiment only proved<br/>
the insusceptibility to that disease of M.<br/>
Girard, and by no means proved that the<br/>
experiment might be tried with equal<br/>
safety by other persons. Even if held<br/>
conclusive on that point, it did not in the<br/>
slightest measure invalidate the position<br/>
taken by the medical officer of the Privy<br/>
Council with respect to the infectiousness<br/>
of that disease. The hon. baronet had,<br/>
moreover, overlooked the fact that, as the<br/>
French Government was at present<br/>
strongly advocating quarantine precau-<br/>
tions against cholera in the East, it might<br/>
be presumed that their medical advisers<br/>
entertained the same opinion as the med-<br/>
ical advisers of the English Government<br/>
on the subject of M. Girard's experi-<br/>
ments.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Revenue.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American Revenue Commissioners<br/>
have reported to the President in support<br/>
of their recommendation of a tax of 2½d.<br/>
on cotton after 1st July next, to be col-<br/>
lected of the manufacturer at the place<br/>
of consumption, and of the merchant or<br/>
factor at the port of export upon all<br/>
foreign shipments? that it will yield a<br/>
revenue, at 22 dols. per bale, of 22,000,<br/>
000 dols. for every million sold. Govern-<br/>
ment might derive an annual revenue of<br/>
88,000,000 dols. on a crop of 4,000,000<br/>
of bales, which would be less than the<br/>
crop of 1859-60. Of this sum—-if the<br/>
consumption of the United States shall<br/>
reach that of 1860—-the inhabitants of<br/>
the United States would pay about 21,<br/>
000,000 dols, and it is believed there are<br/>
few taxes which can be levied which<br/>
would be so slight a burden to the con-<br/>
sumer. The consumption of cotton per<br/>
head in the United States, at the highest<br/>
point ever attained has not exceeded 12<br/>
pounds. A tax of 5 cents per pound<br/>
would therefore be an average of about<br/>
60 cents to each individual per annum.<br/>
As the crop of the present year is not<br/>
likely to be less than 2,000,000 of bales—-<br/>
and if good seed can be obtained may<br/>
exceed this figure-—the Commission are<br/>
of opinion that the government may safe-<br/>
ly rely for the fiscal year ending June 30,<br/>
1867, upon a revenue from this source of<br/>
at least 40,000,000 dols.—-MAULMAIN<br/>
ADVERTISER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pinjrapole.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—There is a Pinjrapole, or hospital<br/>
for animals, in Bombay. When, in 1832<br/>
an Act was passed for the destruction of<br/>
vagrant dogs, the late Sir Jimsetjee Je-<br/>
jeebhoy and several Hindoon and Parsees<br/>
subscribed £ 22,500 wherewith they pur-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
chased several acres of land, with build-<br/>
ings, in the Bholeshwar Road for the re-<br/>
ception of the doomed animals. Soon<br/>
bullocks and horses were admitted, and<br/>
now there are specimens of almost every<br/>
class. The municipality very properly<br/>
taxes the horses. A writer in the Bom-<br/>
BAY GAZETTE describes a visit which he<br/>
paid to the Pinjrapole. Some of the ani-<br/>
mals are sleek, and others have enormous<br/>
wens and sores. In what may be called<br/>
the sick and dying wards are cows and buf-<br/>
faloes in the last stage of disease, lingering<br/>
out a miserable existence. Most of them<br/>
were lying on the ground, and the ap-<br/>
pearance of many was truly pitiable.<br/>
There were hundreds of dogs which come<br/>
in at the rate of about 50 a day, from 8<br/>
annas to 1 rupee being paid for each.<br/>
There are also several monkeys, cats,<br/>
sheep, ducks, deer and even turtle. The<br/>
ants receive a daily ration of sugar and<br/>
ghee, and boys are paid to collect the<br/>
black beetles at feeding time.<br/>
The writer mentions it only as a rumour that, to<br/>
provide for insects unmentionable, a full-<br/>
blooded cooly used to be strapped to a<br/>
cot where they abounded, in such a way<br/>
that he could not injure them.<br/>
The animals are really cared for at a cost of Rs.<br/>
1,000 a month. There are smaller pla-<br/>
ces of the same kind in Bombay, Guzerat<br/>
and the Decean.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Connubial Sermon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Wife and mother, are you tried and<br/>
out of patience with your husband's and<br/>
your children's demands upon your time<br/>
and attention? Are you tempted to<br/>
speak out angry feelings to that faithful,<br/>
but perhaps some times heedless or<br/>
exacting husband of yours? or to scold<br/>
and fret at these sweet and beautiful<br/>
ones? Do you groan and say,—-"what a<br/>
fool I was to marry and leave my father's<br/>
house, where I lived in ease and quie-<br/>
tude?" Are you by reason of care<br/>
and weariness of body which wifehood<br/>
and motherhood must bring, forgetful of,<br/>
and unmindful for their comforts and<br/>
their joys? Oh, wife and mother, what<br/>
if a stroke should smite your husband<br/>
and lay him low? What if your chil-<br/>
dren should be snatched from your arms,<br/>
and from your bosom? What if there<br/>
were no soft little innocents to nestle in<br/>
your arms, and to love you, or receive<br/>
your love? How would it be with you<br/>
then? Be patient and kind, dear wife;<br/>
be unwearying and long-suffering, dear<br/>
mother, for you know not how long you<br/>
may have with you your best and dearest<br/>
treasures—-you know not how long you<br/>
may tarry with them. Let there be noth-<br/>
ing for you to remember which will wring<br/>
your heart with remorse if they leave you<br/>
alone; let there be nothing for them to re-<br/>
member but sweetness and love unutters-<br/>
ble, if you are called to leave them by the<br/>
way. Be patient, be pitiful, be tender of<br/>
them all; for death will step sooner or later<br/>
between them and you. And oh! what<br/>
would you do, if you should be doomed<br/>
to sit solitary and forsaken through years<br/>
and years? Be happy as you are, even<br/>
with all your trials; for believe it, thou<br/>
wife of a true and loving husband, there<br/>
is no lot in life so blessed as thine own.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Interesting Fact.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is well known to what prodigious<br/>
sums money improved for some time at<br/>
compound interest will increase. A penny,<br/>
so improved from our Saviour's birth as to<br/>
double itself every fourteen years, or which<br/>
is nearly the same, put out at five per<br/>
cent, compound interest, at our Saviour's<br/>
birth, would by this time have increased<br/>
to more money than would be contained<br/>
in one hundred and fifty millions of globes,<br/>
each equal to the earth in magnitude, and<br/>
all solid gold. A shilling put out at six per<br/>
cent, compound interest, would in the<br/>
same time have increased to a greater sum<br/>
in gold than the whole solar system could<br/>
hold, supposing a sphere equal in diameter<br/>
to of Saturn's orbit. And the earth is to such<br/>
a sphere as a half square foot, or a quarto<br/>
page to the whole surface of the earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If any body disbelieves this statement,<br/>
they can figure it out for themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Riding a Hobby.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Archbishop of Dublin tells of a<br/>
horseman, who, having lost his way, made<br/>
a complete circle; when the first round<br/>
was finished, seeing the marks of a horse's<br/>
hoofs, and never dreaming that they were<br/>
those of his own beast, he rejoiced, and<br/>
said, "This at least, shows me that I am<br/>
in some track?" When the second circuit<br/>
was finished, the signs of travel were dou-<br/>
bled, and he said, "Now, surely, I am in<br/>
a beaten track;" and with the conclusion<br/>
of every round, the marks increased, till<br/>
he was certain that he must be in some<br/>
frequented thoroughfare, and approach-<br/>
ing a populous town; but all the while<br/>
was riding after his horse's tail, and de-<br/>
ceived by the track of his own error. So<br/>
it is with men that ride a hobby.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_3_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
As much nitrate of soda as can be held<br/>
between the thumb and fingers will pre-<br/>
serve flowers for the space of a fortnight,<br/>
it, is said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A bullock was lately killed in New<br/>
York which weighed 3,795 pounds gross,<br/>
and made 2,475 pounds of clear beef. He<br/>
was sold for $1,500.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
[Continued from page 1]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
them in the eyes even of their own sub-<br/>
jects by our strict regard for their au-<br/>
thority and rights. We have drilled and<br/>
armed and officered the Chinese forces,<br/>
at the risk of these forces being turned<br/>
against ourselves. We have put money<br/>
into the Chinese Treasury by mulcting<br/>
our own subjects for their benefit. It<br/>
was the moral influence of England that<br/>
enabled the custom officers to gather in<br/>
their levies. It is English influence that<br/>
even now enables the Chinese Govern-<br/>
ment to enforce the observance of their<br/>
customs, laws, and tariff rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Much has been done, but much still<br/>
remains to do; China must, however help<br/>
herself hereafter a little more readily and<br/>
a little more energetically than she has<br/>
hitherto done. We have, taken her out<br/>
of the ruts and placed her on the level<br/>
road. We have metaphorically speak-<br/>
ing, played the part of the good Samari-<br/>
tan, bound up her wounds, nursed her<br/>
through her illness, clothed her, put mo-<br/>
ney in her pocket, and weapons in her<br/>
hands. It is time she tried to move<br/>
along in the track marked out for her by<br/>
circumstances she cannot control, inde-<br/>
pendently of our assistance and support.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Will the Chinese Government take<br/>
warning by the past and amend; or must<br/>
a change of dynasty take place before<br/>
we can hope for a change of measures?<br/>
If there is no amendment let China be-<br/>
ware lest the change may be, not a change<br/>
from one family to another of the same<br/>
or of a kindred race, but a substitution<br/>
of foreign for native rulers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That question is now coming promi-<br/>
nently into public view and every ob-<br/>
stacle thrown by the Chinese authorities<br/>
or people in the way of our free ingress<br/>
or egress through the country, to the in-<br/>
troduction of railroads, telegraphs, and<br/>
other improvements of modern civiliza-<br/>
tion in the way of trade, commerce, and<br/>
scientific enquiry is an additional motive<br/>
for urging England to do what she would<br/>
rather not do, i. e. make herself the arbi-<br/>
ter and ruler of China, as she has be-<br/>
come the sovereign mistress of India,<br/>
spite of repeated and sincerely uttered<br/>
protest of her unwillingness to do so.<br/>
—OVER TRADE REPORT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mail Steamers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Amongst the latest files of San Fran-<br/>
cisco papers we notice a description of<br/>
the steamers which are building in New<br/>
York, for the new line between San<br/>
Francisco and Hongkong. When comple-<br/>
ted they will be the largest merchant ships<br/>
ever constructed in the United States,<br/>
and most probably the largest wooden<br/>
ships in the world. Two of these gigan-<br/>
tic steamers are now in course of con-<br/>
struction at New York, and they will be<br/>
ready to take up the mail service, on the<br/>
1st January 1867. The dimensions and<br/>
tonnage of these leviathans is something<br/>
enormous ; their beam is to be 50 feet,<br/>
they will each have three docks, and will<br/>
be built with four water tight compart-<br/>
ments ; their tonnage will be 5,000 tons<br/>
and their cost will be over a million of<br/>
dollars each. They will be fitted with<br/>
beam engines, with all the latest Ameri-<br/>
can improvements to this form of steam-<br/>
ship machinery. These splendid passenger<br/>
ships will have accommodation for 500 first<br/>
class passengers, and will make the round<br/>
voyage, from San Francisco to Hongkong<br/>
and back, via Kanagawa, in two months.<br/>
We presume that deducting for stop-<br/>
pages, the trip from here to San Francis-<br/>
co will be accomplished in about 3 weeks ;<br/>
the average passage by sailing ship being<br/>
about sixty or sixty-five days. If the<br/>
arrangements on board for passengers is<br/>
conducted a little more in accordance<br/>
with English ideas of comfort than the<br/>
American boarding house style of rush-<br/>
ing to meals like wild animals, which<br/>
rather astonishes the uninitiated British-<br/>
er on the great American lines of steam-<br/>
ers, the line may be used by many going<br/>
to Europe, in preference to the overland<br/>
route.—-STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Fortnightly Summary
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last issue of this report, we gave<br/>
to our readers an authentic statement of the<br/>
the then existing state of affairs in the<br/>
Inland sea. We have since heard, on<br/>
doubtful authority, that Chiosiu has con-<br/>
sented to easier terms than those detail-<br/>
ed in our last. We are convinced that<br/>
this powerful prince will have consented<br/>
to nothing that would in any way dero-<br/>
gate from his dignity as a great Daimio<br/>
of Japan, and the actual, though not from<br/>
force of old tradition, the nominal equal<br/>
of the Tycoon. He can, indeed, well af-<br/>
ford to give to the Yeddo potentate some<br/>
small nominal concession when he sees<br/>
him paying, quarterly, a most inconve-<br/>
nient sum of money as indemnity to the<br/>
Western powers for the Simoneseki<br/>
affair.—OVER TRADE REPORT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Money Market
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
More serious and unexpected intelli-<br/>
gence than that brought by the telegrams<br/>
of the 10th and 11th instant never reach-<br/>
ed India-—an unparalleled panic in the<br/>
money market, a bank like Overend Gur-<br/>
ney's stopped; several more likely to fol-<br/>
low, all in distress, and the Government<br/>
expresssing their willingness to violate the<br/>
Bank Act or 1844 a third time. This<br/>
action of Government may, and probably<br/>
will, have the same effect as a similar in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
timation in 1847—-that of restoring con-<br/>
fidence at once. In 1857 the Act was<br/>
suspended on 12th November but not<br/>
for more than nine days after was the fe-<br/>
ver excitement allayed. The Act was in<br/>
reality broken by over-issues, but the dif-<br/>
ficulty was not of long duration. So<br/>
far as the telegrams show the panic has<br/>
been caused by the expectation of war<br/>
between Austria and Prussia. On the<br/>
7th it was considered inevitable, but on<br/>
the 11th, the latest date, it had evidently<br/>
not been declared. Nothing could be<br/>
more ominous than the suspension of<br/>
specie payments in Austria, the attempt<br/>
of Italy to raise a loan to help her to<br/>
take the Quadrilateral and Venetia, and<br/>
the appeal of Saxony against the designs<br/>
of Prussia to the Diet. Still war cannot<br/>
be the only cause. England will keep<br/>
out of the struggle, and former experi-<br/>
ence has shown that when the Continent<br/>
is disturbed capital is sent to England for<br/>
security. At the end of March the<br/>
ECONOMIST declared that in the previous<br/>
quarter the Bank of England had “ma-<br/>
naged admirably.” The real source of<br/>
the evil is doubtless to be found in those,<br/>
numberless finance companies which, in<br/>
London and Paris as in India, conceal<br/>
the nature of the securities that they<br/>
hold. Nothing can now prevent the out-<br/>
burst of that volcano on which Bombay<br/>
has been slumbering. Already two firms<br/>
have gone, and one of them is the very<br/>
first in the second rank. We have rea-<br/>
son to be grateful that Calcutta is likely<br/>
to bear the strain. There is not excite-<br/>
ment so much as a total suspension of<br/>
trade that is certain. The absence of<br/>
news later than the 11th is almost worse<br/>
than intelligence of further commercial<br/>
disasters.—-FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
-—The BOMBAY REVIEW considers<br/>
state of things, commercial and financial,<br/>
very threatening and gloomy in Bombay.<br/>
There is a vague fear that the Island is<br/>
on the eve of a great crash, and rumours<br/>
are very rife as to the stability of several<br/>
firms. It is gratifying to hear rumours<br/>
of a probable dissolution of some of the<br/>
Reclamation Companies. The BOMBAY<br/>
TIMES seems to protest against the disso-<br/>
lution of the Back Bay Company as dero-<br/>
gatory to the ‘fame of Bombay.’ The<br/>
Frere and the Mazagon Reclamation<br/>
Companies are almost certain to be wound<br/>
up. Messrs. W. Cassels and Michael<br/>
Scott ought now to be at their post.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-21_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Postal Statistics.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We take the annexed piece of postal<br/>
statistics from the FRIEND OF INDIA—-it<br/>
is an interesting item for a note-book:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from the English Post Office<br/>
Report that in 1864 the number of let-<br/>
ters which passed in both directions be-<br/>
tween England, India and China was 3,<br/>
632,000 or two-thirds, of a million more<br/>
than in the case of Australia, and not<br/>
much more than a million less than the<br/>
number sent to and received from the<br/>
United States, 28,000,000 letters in all<br/>
passed between Great Britain and foreign<br/>
countries and the colonies, and 21,500,<br/>
000 books, papers, and patterns. In Eng-<br/>
land and Wales 27 letters were delivered<br/>
to every person upon an average; in Lon-<br/>
don, 51; in Scotland, 20; in Ireland, 9;<br/>
in the United Kingdom, as a whole, 25.<br/>
The total number exceeded 679,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have received direct by<br/>
the last Overland Mail<br/>
and the "Fairy" from London, a<br/>
well assorted stock of all kinds of<br/>
liquids, drygoods; also syrups,<br/>
provisions as conserves, butter;<br/>
victoria-cuddy-swan-fancy-pic nic<br/>
biscuits; French and English tea<br/>
and gingerbread; cakes, crack-<br/>
nells, etc. etc. etc. etc,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok June 7th 1866. {{< news/indent2 >}} (3 w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dook Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
