---
linkTitle: 'November 22nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 22nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 22nd'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 69
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY,</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">November 22nd, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 46.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
House Cleaning.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"The saddest of the year,"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of cleaning paint and scrubbing floors,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And scouring far and near.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
"The melancholy days have come,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The ancient dirt lay quiet,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And spiders wove their webs secure<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From fear, and din, and riot;<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Heaped in the corners of the room,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}And from the stair-case top<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The mistress calls to man and maid<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To wield the broom and mop.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
But now the carpets are all up,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The house but now presented,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wherein we dwelt, nor dreamed of dirt,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So cosy and contented ?<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Where are those rooms, those quiet rooms,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}That quiet suite of rooms,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With slops, and suds, and soap, and sand,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And tubs, and pails, and brooms;<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Alas! they're turned all upside down,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}At sixes and at sevens,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}While wife and housemaids fly about<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Like meteors in the heavens.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Chairs, tables, stands, are standing round,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Were cleaned a week ago,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The carpets shook, the windows washed,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As all the neighbors know<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The parlor and the chamber floor
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The table piled with books,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pens, ink, and paper all about,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Peace in its very looks—<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
But still the SANCTUM had escaped
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}As falls the plague on men,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And then they vanished all away<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Books, papers, ink and pen.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Till fell the women on them all,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}As come he must at nights,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To find all thing are "set to wrongs"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That they have "set to rights!"<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
And now, when comes the master home,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Though the house is far from still,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the carpet women are on the stairs,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That harbinger of ill—<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
When the sound of driving tasks is heard,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}That all were there before,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And sighs to find them on the desk<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Or in the drawer no more.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
He looks for papers, books or bills
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who set this fuss afloat,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And wishes she were out at sea<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In a very leaky boat;<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
And then he grimly thinks of her
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}With hair and cap awry,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With sleeves tucked up and broom in hand,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Defiance in her eye;<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
He meets her at the parlor door,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}There's nothing to be said,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So holds his tongue and drinks his tea,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And sneaks away to bed.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
He feels quite small, and knows full well
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
American Politics.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(ENGLISH VIEW.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notwithstanding the praise we still<br/>
hear of Mr. JOHNSON'S statesmanship, it<br/>
has become increasingly evident of late<br/>
that, so far from steering the vessel of<br/>
State into the smoother waters that lay<br/>
straight before him, he has "gradually re-<br/>
versed the helm, and has been steering<br/>
for the breakers. That those who on this<br/>
side of the water most loudly sympathised<br/>
with the Confederacy as loudly praise Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON and applaud his policy ; that he<br/>
has rallied to him all the old pro-Southern<br/>
element in the South and the secession<br/>
element in the South ; and that the loyal-<br/>
ists of the South and those in the North<br/>
who made sacrifices for the Union are<br/>
nearly all against him, are facts which are<br/>
significant of his present position, and<br/>
strongly condemnatory of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It must be clearly understood that the<br/>
issue now before the country is not that<br/>
which the friends of Mr. JOHNSON and<br/>
many of our contemporaries here assume<br/>
it to be. Of course the Philadelphia Con-<br/>
ventionists follow Mr. JOHNSON in repre-<br/>
senting the quarrel to be between himself<br/>
and the "radicals," and in identifying the<br/>
"radical" policy "with that adopted by<br/>
Congress. But the "radical" policy, a-<br/>
gainst which we have on many occasions<br/>
protested, was as different from that<br/>
adopted by Congress as "the people's"<br/>
"Charter" was different from Mr. GLAD-<br/>
STONE'S Reform Bill. Mr. THADDEUS<br/>
STEVENS would have treated the Southern<br/>
States as disorganized communities, would<br/>
have governed them as territories, and af-<br/>
ter a period would have admitted them as<br/>
new States with new constitutions into<br/>
the Federal Union. Mr. SUMNER would<br/>
have required from them the enactment of<br/>
universal negro suffrage and the renewal<br/>
of all their constitutions in a thoroughly<br/>
Republican sense. But this policy, which<br/>
we are convinced would have been infini-<br/>
tely wiser than that of Mr. JOHNSON, was<br/>
never accepted by Congress. After long,<br/>
but not too long inquiry and deliberation,<br/>
Congress agreed upon a course which was<br/>
the happy medium between the stern re-<br/>
quirements and prolonged delays of the<br/>
"radical" policy, and the yielding ease<br/>
and inconsiderate haste with which Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON would restore "the Union as<br/>
"it was." The Reconstruction Committee<br/>
sat for five months, inquired carefully and<br/>
elaborately into all the conditions which<br/>
could affect the question, and made a re-<br/>
port on which the action of Congress was<br/>
founded. It was Mr. JOHNSON'S duty to<br/>
give this committee all the information<br/>
on which his suggestions were based, and<br/>
on which he had acted, but after six weeks<br/>
of waiting all that the Committee could<br/>
get was the authenticated copies of the<br/>
constitutions of three of the States, some<br/>
newspaper clippings as to the action of a<br/>
fourth, and nothing at all about the other<br/>
seven. Yet Mr. JOHNSON was in haste for<br/>
Congress to register his decrees and re-<br/>
store the Union in his way ; and those on<br/>
this side who were raising their voices for<br/>
all kinds of information, and seeking<br/>
every pretext for delay in the mere am-<br/>
endment of our representation, were just<br/>
as loud in their denunciation of Congress<br/>
for the inquiries it was making, the full<br/>
information it was seeking, and the con-<br/>
sequent delay it was creating in the re-<br/>
construction of "a Federal Union after a<br/>
civil war had rent it." In six months Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON had made up his mind without<br/>
information—-in five months Congress got<br/>
all the information it needed, and pro-<br/>
ceeded to legislate. And just at this point,<br/>
as we showed at the time, was Mr. JOHN-<br/>
SON'S opportunity. The "Radical" policy<br/>
fell through. Congress, though asserting<br/>
the unconstitutional character of Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON'S assumption of reconstructive<br/>
power, agreed to admit all that had been<br/>
done, and to carry on the work [...] the<br/>
point to which Mr. JOHNSON had brought<br/>
it. It proposed that an amendment to the<br/>
Constitution should be made guaranteeing<br/>
the civil rights of the negroes, the public<br/>
debt and the past legislation of the North,<br/>
and redressing the inequality of represen-<br/>
tation, which makes the Southern citizens<br/>
weigh half as much again in the scale of<br/>
the Constitution as a citizen of the North.<br/>
Mr. JOHNSON'S friends supported this, the<br/>
South were known to be willing to accept<br/>
it, and the only comment made upon it,<br/>
even by those who were hostile to it, was<br/>
that it was a small result of so much la-<br/>
bour. It was proposed that on the ratifi-<br/>
cation of this amendment the Southern<br/>
representatives should be admitted, and<br/>
the Union, rendered safe by this simple<br/>
redressal of a representative inequality,<br/>
should be restored at once. That proposal<br/>
was the test of Mr. JOHNSON'S statesman-<br/>
ship and the touchstone of his sincerity.<br/>
It contained nothing which he had not<br/>
himself advocated, and nothing which<br/>
North and South would not have agreed<br/>
upon at once had Mr. JOHNSON joined with<br/>
Congress in recommending it. But it was<br/>
not needful that Congress should consult<br/>
him in making the proposal, and it passed<br/>
him over. Then it was that Mr. JOHNSON<br/>
was found wanting. Had he put aside his<br/>
personal pique, and thought only of his<br/>
country, he would have taken the Congres-<br/>
sional proposal as an olive branch, the<br/>
South would have accepted it at his hands,<br/>
the Northern States would have assembled<br/>
their Legislatures in special session to<br/>
ratify it, and by the time Congress ad-<br/>
journed, not only Tennessee, but all the<br/>
Southern States, excepting Texas, might<br/>
have been enjoying the privilege of repre-<br/>
sentation in Congress. But Mr. JOHNSON<br/>
failed his country. At the moment when<br/>
he could have done the Union essential<br/>
service he chose to serve himself. An ill-<br/>
tempered message was fulminated against<br/>
the proposal of Congress, and the word<br/>
went forth that the Union was not to be<br/>
restored if it could not be restored in Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON'S way. From that moment he<br/>
threw himself into the arms of the South.<br/>
Everywhere the old democracy, who would<br/>
have closed the war by installing Mr. DA-<br/>
VIS in Mr. LINCOLN'S place, rallied around<br/>
a new leader, and the fight of Southern<br/>
ascendancy was reopened on the field of<br/>
Northern politics. The protests against<br/>
"radicalism" are a blind—the ascription<br/>
to Congress of all the blame of delay is a<br/>
pretence; the real object of the movement<br/>
which the Philadelphia Convention has<br/>
sanctioned is the restoration of the South<br/>
without the guarantees the Congressional<br/>
proposal provides. The choice is not be-<br/>
tween what Congress has talked and what<br/>
the PRESIDENT has tried to do, but between<br/>
what Congress has done and what Mr.<br/>
JOHNSON has desired. The real issue is<br/>
whether the constitution shall be amended<br/>
so as to give equal civil rights to the<br/>
freedmen and equal political representa-<br/>
tion to the North with the South, or<br/>
whether the old Union shall be restored<br/>
with Southern preponderance and no pro-<br/>
vision for the protection of the freedmen<br/>
in their rights. Congress represents the<br/>
policy of caution, and the wise healing its<br/>
proposals would bring; Mr. JOHNSON re-<br/>
presents a policy of concession which<br/>
would give back to the South nearly all<br/>
that the sacrifices of the war have pur-<br/>
chased from it. Congress is for a lasting<br/>
union founded on equal justice to both<br/>
races and sections—-Mr. JOHNSON is for<br/>
leaving the negro to his fate, and the<br/>
North to its diminished share of Federal<br/>
power. Congress would take precautions<br/>
which are admitted to be wise and just<br/>
before entering again into Federal alliance<br/>
with those who have misused their power<br/>
Mr. JOHNSON would have no real precau-<br/>
tion taken, but would remarry the sun-<br/>
dered sections in a hurry, leaving the<br/>
North to repent at leisure. We are not,<br/>
therefore, at all surprised that our con-<br/>
temporaries who supported the South all<br/>
through the war are loud in their support<br/>
of Mr. JOHNSON now; but the same desire<br/>
for the welfare of the great people who<br/>
have sprung from the loins of England<br/>
which decided our sympathy for the<br/>
Northern cause, and made us rejoice in<br/>
the Northern victory, determines our best<br/>
hopes and wishes to the side of Congress,<br/>
which really represents all the best inter-<br/>
ests of human progress in the "reconstruc-<br/>
tion" strife which is raging now.-—DAILY<br/>
TIMES 10TH SEPT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The American Ladies
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Expedition
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Mercer's party of 100 ladies, who<br/>
are on their way to Washington Territo-<br/>
ry, the uttermost north-west corner of<br/>
the United States have been heard of.<br/>
In March their steamship the Continental<br/>
had got through the Straits of Magellan,<br/>
passed into the South Pacific, and bade<br/>
good-bye to the shores of Patagonia,<br/>
when a little mistake occurred. The<br/>
correspondent of the NEW YORK TIMES,<br/>
on board, who dates from the port of<br/>
Lota, and signs himself "Rod," writes:—<br/>
"By some oversight the captain ran into<br/>
a port that was blockaded by Spanish<br/>
fleet (on paper, for not a man-of-war<br/>
was in sight), and, after leisurely drop-<br/>
ping anchor, went ashore. There he<br/>
soon learnt his mistake, and, hurrying on<br/>
board, weighed anchor and made all<br/>
speed to get out. But just as we began<br/>
to congratulate ourselves that we had es-<br/>
caped we saw a large man-of-war bearing<br/>
down upon us under full head of steam.<br/>
We tried to run by, but were soon brought<br/>
up by a peremptory shot across our bows.<br/>
A Spanish officer immediately came on<br/>
board, and spent a long time in close ex-<br/>
amination of the ship's papers. We were<br/>
decidedly a rich and novel prize, having<br/>
besides our valuable cargo over 100 good<br/>
looking marriageable young ladies on<br/>
board ; but our captor was either very<br/>
favorably impressed or happened to be<br/>
in a very generously gallant mood, for he<br/>
finally concluded to let us go. I fear<br/>
some of the fair ladies were disappointed<br/>
at the result. A voyage to Spain would<br/>
have been so romantic! But to the rest<br/>
of us it was great relief when our captor<br/>
dipped her colors and allowed us to pro-<br/>
ceed to sea. Our next stopping place<br/>
will be San Francisco."—(TIMES, MAY<br/>
25.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Heavy guns Vs. Turret
Ironclads.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some weeks ago, a very interesting<br/>
experiment was made at Spithead near<br/>
Portsmouth on the Turret Ironclad, Her<br/>
Majesty's Ship Royal Sovereign, under<br/>
the order of the Board Admiralty. The<br/>
experiment consisted of mounting a gun<br/>
weighing twelve and a half tons on board<br/>
the Frigate BELLEBOPHON and anchoring<br/>
this vessel at a distance of two hundred<br/>
yards from the Royal Sovereign. Two<br/>
marks were painted on the turret of the<br/>
Ironclad, and one a mere chalk line along<br/>
the deck up to the base of the turret.<br/>
The gun was loaded in the first instance,<br/>
with a charge of forty three pounds of<br/>
powder, and a conoidal headed steel shot<br/>
weighing two hundred and forty six<br/>
pounds. The shot struck the mark at<br/>
the edge of the plating, next to the gun-<br/>
port, broke away a jagged piece, twelve<br/>
inches diameter from the outer, or 5½<br/>
inch armour plate, bent back and frac-<br/>
tured the inner or 7¼ inch plate, bulged<br/>
in the wooden backing and inner skin,<br/>
and passed into the turret, smashing the<br/>
wooden skeleton gun, mounted in lieu of<br/>
the turret's gun, which had been remov-<br/>
ed, into a thousand splinters, but falling<br/>
on the floor of the turret two thirds<br/>
broken up, and without doing any inter-<br/>
ior damage to the turret.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second trial was from the same<br/>
gun, in which the same charge of powder<br/>
was used, but the steel shot was four<br/>
pounds heavier, distance two hundred<br/>
yards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This shot struck the mark at the tur-<br/>
ret's weakest part, at the junction of two<br/>
plates, and drove in the broken pieces<br/>
twelve inches into the backing, about<br/>
twelve inches from the upper edge of<br/>
the plate and turret. The shot turned<br/>
upwards and remained lodged in the<br/>
wooden backing behind the amour plate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The third trial was considered a mag-<br/>
nificent shot, striking on the chalk mark.<br/>
The distance was diminished, it being in<br/>
this instance only a hundred and sixty<br/>
yards. Another conoidal headed steel<br/>
shot weighing two hundred and fifty<br/>
pounds, charge of powder forty three<br/>
pounds were employed. The target<br/>
mark was on the ship's deck, eight feet<br/>
from the side of the turret, the angle of<br/>
fire being nearly horizontal. This shot<br/>
merely scored the deck and upper collar<br/>
plating up to the face of the turret,<br/>
where it "gouged" out a piece of the<br/>
armour plating seventeen inches long by<br/>
nine inches wide and three and a half<br/>
inches in depth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After all this hard battering, the turret<br/>
rotated easily by the force of three men<br/>
at the winches. In fact the mechanical<br/>
principle of the turret remained in tact.<br/>
It is like a rifleman standing in some<br/>
secure central spot, from which he can<br/>
deliver his fire in every direction, all<br/>
round the compass.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The experiment was conducted under<br/>
Captain Key C. B., of the EXCELLENT.<br/>
There were a large number of Naval<br/>
officers on board, including all the mem-<br/>
bers of the Board of Admiralty. The<br/>
result was considered to be entirely satis-<br/>
factory, and Captain Cowper Coles, who<br/>
was present received the compliments<br/>
and general congratulations, of all pres-<br/>
ent for his persistency in advocating the<br/>
superiority of turret ships over every<br/>
other kind of Vessel of War.—RANGOON<br/>
TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Anthony P. Dostie.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The bloody tragedy just enacted in<br/>
New Orleans is likely to prove a leading<br/>
event in the history of reconstruction.<br/>
The hand of the Great Organizer can be<br/>
clearly seen in it; for it befalls at a mo-<br/>
ment when some extraordinary develop-<br/>
ment is requisite to lead men to discern<br/>
distinctly the nature and operation of<br/>
forces, and acknowledge the dangers to<br/>
which the national cause is exposed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the Government had neglected<br/>
its golden opportunity to determine the<br/>
status of institutions at the South in ac-<br/>
cordance with the will of the victorious<br/>
nation, and had practically adjourned the<br/>
settlement of all the underlying questions<br/>
of the war to the tribunals of local con-<br/>
flict, it was inevitable that sooner or later<br/>
blood would flow, to give divine sanction<br/>
and enlargement to the cause of the weak<br/>
against the strong. A conspicuous exam-<br/>
ple, like that which has now shocked the<br/>
nation, may serve to draw the electric<br/>
wrath from the threatening cloud of race<br/>
and class prejudice, rapidly accumulated<br/>
in Southern skies under the sunlight of<br/>
executive clemency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the list of martyrs belonging to the<br/>
reconstruction period the name standing<br/>
at the head of this article appears in bold<br/>
relief. In his history and work, Anthony<br/>
P. Dostie represents the cause and the<br/>
conflict of the nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Dostie, before the war, was a quiet,<br/>
industrious, law-abiding citizen. During<br/>
the war he expended, in charity and in<br/>
promoting the cause of the nation, the<br/>
hard earnings of his life-time. There is<br/>
no evidence that he incited insurrection<br/>
among the former slaves. They gave<br/>
heed to his words, and he counseled the<br/>
to maintain with moderation their per-<br/>
sonal rights and the rights of freedom.<br/>
Gen. Banks says of him, "I knew him<br/>
well. No country ever gave birth to a<br/>
more unselfish man, a truer patriot, or a<br/>
more devoted friend of liberty." His<br/>
fault, in the eyes of disloyal men, was<br/>
that he stood firmly by the Government<br/>
in its struggle with treason, and that he<br/>
intensely loved popular liberty. His last<br/>
breath was given to prayer that the good<br/>
work might go on. His name will be<br/>
cherished, in the better ages that are to<br/>
come, with John Brown, Gordon, of<br/>
Jamaica, and many others who dared to<br/>
love the down-trodden, and who died that<br/>
liberty might be established on the broad-<br/>
est basis of human rights.—-N. Y. INDE-<br/>
PENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sights in Holland.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Rotterdam correspondent of the<br/>
Boston TRAVELER, writes:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Imagine a city where every other street<br/>
is a dirty canal filled with barges, where<br/>
half the front doors open into brooks,<br/>
and the other half directly into the streets,<br/>
which are paved with brick. Imagine<br/>
everything, from street door signs to tree<br/>
trunks, perfectly white and clean, with<br/>
the exception of the water with which<br/>
everything is washed. Imagine every-<br/>
thing looking as if they had just been sent<br/>
home from a laundry, nobody dirty or<br/>
shiftless, or slovenly, and all the peasants<br/>
hobbling about in huge wooden shoes of<br/>
a hundred pounds burden (to use a nauti-<br/>
cal phrase), with soles two inches thick.<br/>
Imagine several hundred small hand carts,<br/>
laden with fruits and vegetables, pulled<br/>
by dogs who trot under the axletree while<br/>
the seller holds the affair up by the han-<br/>
dles in the rear. The horses are very few<br/>
in number, and very queer looking beasts<br/>
they are. In fact, they don't resemble<br/>
horses at all, and are so thin and miser-<br/>
able in their aspect, that I don't wonder<br/>
at the peasants preferring the dogs in<br/>
their places. All freight and heavy goods<br/>
are transported by water, and consequen-<br/>
tly there are but few wagons. Those few<br/>
are heavy and awkward, and are fasten-<br/>
ed to the horses by ropes. The streets<br/>
are lined with shade trees, and many of<br/>
the houses have beautiful gardens, with<br/>
rivulets instead of flower beds, and shaded<br/>
islands in the place of summer houses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch stalls, stables, barnyards, in fact<br/>
everything that I have seen in Dutchland,<br/>
is clean and fresh. In cow houses the<br/>
animals tails are tied up to a hook in the<br/>
ceiling that they may not get soiled by<br/>
contact with the floor; and when they go<br/>
out to pasture in the spring, they have a<br/>
cloth tied round them, as little boys have<br/>
bibs, to keep them nice and clean. Bugs<br/>
and spiders stand no possible chance of<br/>
existence in Holland. Every week the<br/>
whole energy of the inhabitants is devot-<br/>
ed to scrubbing and cleaning, and indeed<br/>
the whole city retains a damp appearance<br/>
all the week from the terrible drenching<br/>
it gets on Saturday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a person is sick, an announcement<br/>
to that effect is put up outside the door,<br/>
and changed like a bulletin as the disease<br/>
progresses or is checked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In walking about this morning, I saw<br/>
several men walking very rapidly, with<br/>
enormous three-cornered black hats on,<br/>
short black coats covered with ribbons,<br/>
small clothes and black socks. They car-<br/>
ried in their hands blank edged paper,<br/>
covered with writing. The hideous hired<br/>
mourners of England are ugly enough,<br/>
but these outdo them. They were all hat<br/>
and ribbons, and I have just found out<br/>
that they are the death announcers, and<br/>
that it is their cheerful business in life to<br/>
continually call upon the friends of any<br/>
one deceased and usher in the mournful<br/>
tidings, with an invitation to the funeral.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cause and Effect.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is painful to read the accounts of<br/>
the New Orleans riot in which forty Un-<br/>
ionists, from the best in the State alike<br/>
to the humblest, were foully murdered,<br/>
without feelings of indignation and shame<br/>
at the relation in which Mr. Johnson<br/>
stands to the matter. Whether, with his<br/>
knowledge, he could have anticipated<br/>
any such result we cannot say. In charity<br/>
we will hope not. But it is still true that,<br/>
as plainly as effect obeys cause, did the<br/>
outbreak follow the disgraceful despatch-<br/>
es from the White House to Mayor Mon-<br/>
roe. Mad and reckless rebels charged<br/>
the gun to which Mr. Johnson applied<br/>
the match. Nor has any subsequent ac-<br/>
tion of his indicated that he was greatly<br/>
astonished or greatly grieved at this whole-<br/>
sale murder of loyal men. The assembl-<br/>
ing of the Convention may have been un-<br/>
wise, but it had a right to assemble, as<br/>
much as Mr. Johnson's friends have to<br/>
gather at Philadelphia next week, and<br/>
the Federal arm should have protected it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile how false are all the as-<br/>
sumptions on which the President's policy<br/>
is based; that the South has accepted the<br/>
situation in good faith and yields to it a<br/>
loyal submission. Not in the spirit of the<br/>
New Orleans massacre do men do works<br/>
meet for repentance.—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
November 22nd 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
On Public Ways.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following article copied from<br/>
VATTEL'S LAWS OF NATIONS is, if we<br/>
mistake not, appropriate and in season<br/>
for the consideration of the Siamese<br/>
government at the present time. The<br/>
government has taken a grand step in<br/>
the line of internal improvement in<br/>
giving permission to an English com-<br/>
pany to construct a Telegraph line<br/>
from Barmah to Bangkok. This line<br/>
we confidently expect will be of great<br/>
service to Siam in less than three<br/>
years, and will become increasingly so<br/>
perpetually. But it can never con-<br/>
vey any thing that is material. Siam<br/>
is in distressing need of ways that<br/>
men can travel, and ride their horses<br/>
and drive their teams upon. While<br/>
the rivers and canals are, and must<br/>
ever continue to be the chief thorough-<br/>
fares over the plains of Siam they ne-<br/>
ver can satisfy the wants of an en-<br/>
lightened and civilized nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Young Siam ever means to be ex-<br/>
pected as a civilized nation, she must<br/>
give immediate attention to the con-<br/>
struction of good roads. A great des-<br/>
titution of such facilities for traveling<br/>
is a certain sign of barbarism. While<br/>
His Majesty has made a praise-worthy<br/>
beginning in civilizing Bangkok by<br/>
causing several comfortable streets to<br/>
be made, there is yet scarcely a good<br/>
carriage road in this great metropolis<br/>
of 400,000 souls. The street Charon<br/>
Kroong comes the nearest to it: but<br/>
a carriage can run but a little way on<br/>
it before it comes to a dead halt at a<br/>
canal which has no bridge that can be<br/>
traversed by a wheel carriage. The<br/>
original plan was to have that street<br/>
merge into a road that should not end<br/>
short of Paknam, and that all the<br/>
bridges should be suitable for wheel<br/>
carriages. Why has the government<br/>
become slack and stopped the work<br/>
ere one third of the road has been<br/>
completed? This great city needs<br/>
many more good streets like two or<br/>
three we have noticed within the walls,<br/>
streets leading out into the country<br/>
in many directions, inviting the citi-<br/>
zens to seek horses and carriages, and<br/>
find wholesome recreation on land in<br/>
exchange oftentimes for the monoto-<br/>
nous and indolent mode of riding in<br/>
boats. Boat-riding would be much<br/>
more pleasant than it is, if the tide<br/>
would always favor both going and<br/>
coming, but such favors are few and<br/>
far between. We beg to repeat it,<br/>
though it be the third or fourth time,<br/>
that Western Bangkok is to this day<br/>
in the depths of barbarism in regard<br/>
to streets. There is really a distress-<br/>
ing need of a street of the same size<br/>
and extent of Charon Kroong. We<br/>
hope government will forthwith de-<br/>
termine upon having one made, and<br/>
show that it hath power to accom-<br/>
plish it. We trust the road to T'achcon<br/>
will be made however much the nobles<br/>
and lords along its line may oppose it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it strikes us that no new road<br/>
is so much needed at the present time<br/>
as one from Rahaang to Cheangmai,<br/>
where now there are only footpaths<br/>
for Elephants, who have to travel them<br/>
ten days to reach the Laos capital. The<br/>
way by the river in ascending from that<br/>
place requires full a month of hard<br/>
polling to make the city, and is attend-<br/>
ed with great difficulties and dangers<br/>
in passing over the falls in the moun-<br/>
tain gorges. We have learned from<br/>
well informed Laos princes, who<br/>
have recently left this city on their<br/>
journey homeward, that there are<br/>
no serious obstacles in the way of<br/>
making even a rail road from Ra-<br/>
haang to Cheangmai. If so, then cer-<br/>
tainly a carriage road could be made<br/>
with comparatively little expense. We<br/>
regard it of the first importance to the<br/>
welfare of both the Siamese and<br/>
Cheangmai governments that greater<br/>
facilities of intercourse be opened<br/>
between the two countries than now<br/>
exist. They need by every means to<br/>
be brought nearer to each other. And<br/>
a good road where we have named<br/>
would reduce the separation of six<br/>
weeks to about four. We would pray<br/>
the government to take this matter<br/>
into serious consideration, for that<br/>
great, rich, and beautiful Laos coun-<br/>
try is becoming too important in the<br/>
estimation of the world to remain any<br/>
longer so inaccessible to her Suza-<br/>
rain. Siamese as well as Europeans in-<br/>
terested in the Teak trade of the vast<br/>
Laosian forests going and coming on that<br/>
business, call loudly for a good road from<br/>
Rahaang to Cheangmai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Of the care of the public ways
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
OF COMMUNICATION,
AND THE RIGHT OF TOLL.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The utility of highways, bridges,<br/>
canals, and, in a word, of all safe and<br/>
commodious ways of communication,<br/>
cannot be doubted. They facilitate<br/>
the trade between one place and ano-<br/>
ther, and render the conveyance of<br/>
merchandize less expensive, as well as<br/>
more certain and easy. The merchants<br/>
are enabled to sell at a better price,<br/>
and to obtain the preference; an at-<br/>
traction is held out to foreigners,<br/>
whose merchandizes are carried<br/>
through the country, and diffuse<br/>
wealth in all the places through which<br/>
they pass. France and Holland feel<br/>
the happy consequences of this from<br/>
daily experience.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the principal things that<br/>
ought to employ the attention of the<br/>
government with respect to the wel-<br/>
fare of the public in general, and of<br/>
trade in particular, must then relate<br/>
to the highways, canals, &c. in which<br/>
nothing ought to be neglected to make<br/>
them safe and commodious. France<br/>
is one of those states where this duty<br/>
to the public is discharged with the<br/>
greatest attention and magnificence.<br/>
Numerous paroles everywhere watch<br/>
over the safety of travelers; magnifi-<br/>
cent roads, bridges, and canals, facili-<br/>
tate the communication between one<br/>
province and another;—Lewis XIV.<br/>
joined the two seas by a work worthy<br/>
of the Romans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole nation ought, doubtless,<br/>
to contribute to such useful undertak-<br/>
ings. When therefore the laying out<br/>
and repairing of highways, bridges,<br/>
and canals, would be too great a bur-<br/>
then on the ordinary revenues of the<br/>
state, the government may oblige the<br/>
people to labor at them, or to contri-<br/>
bute to the expence. The peasants,<br/>
in some of the provinces of France,<br/>
have been heard to murmur at the la-<br/>
bors imposed upon them for the con-<br/>
struction of roads; but experience had<br/>
no sooner made them sensible of their<br/>
true interest, than they blessed the<br/>
authors of the undertaking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The construction and preservation<br/>
of all these works, being attended by<br/>
great expense, the nation may very<br/>
justly oblige all those to contribute to<br/>
them, who receive advantage from<br/>
their use. This is the legitimate ori-<br/>
gin of the right of toll. It is just that<br/>
a traveler, and especially a merchant,<br/>
who receives advantage from a bridge,<br/>
a canal, or a road, in his own passage,<br/>
and in the more commodious convey-<br/>
ance of his merchandize, should help<br/>
to defray the expenses of these useful<br/>
establishments, by a moderate contri-<br/>
bution, and if the state thinks proper<br/>
to exempt the citizen from paying it,<br/>
she is under no obligation to gratify<br/>
strangers in this particular.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But a law so just in its origin fre-<br/>
quently degenerates into great abuses.<br/>
There are countries where no care is<br/>
taken of the highways, and where ne-<br/>
vertheless considerable tolls are exac-<br/>
ted. A lord of a manor, who happens<br/>
to possess a strip of land terminating<br/>
on a river, there established a toll,<br/>
though he is not at a farthing's ex-<br/>
pense at keeping up the navigation of<br/>
the river, and rendering it convenient.<br/>
This is a manifest extortion, and an<br/>
infringement of the natural rights of<br/>
mankind. For the division of lands,<br/>
and their becoming private property,<br/>
can never deprive any man of the right<br/>
of passage, when not the least injury<br/>
is done to the person through whose<br/>
territory he passes. Every man in-<br/>
herits this right from nature, and can-<br/>
not justly be forced to purchase it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the arbitrary or customary<br/>
law of nations at present tolerates this<br/>
abuse, where it is not carried to such<br/>
an excess as to destroy commerce.<br/>
People do not, however, submit with-<br/>
out difficulty, except in the case of<br/>
those tolls which are established by<br/>
ancient usage; and the imposition of<br/>
new ones is often the source of dispu-<br/>
tes. The swiss formerly made war on<br/>
the Dukes of Milan, on account of<br/>
some oppressions of this nature. This<br/>
right of toll is also further abused,<br/>
when the passenger is obliged to con-<br/>
tribute too much, and what bears no<br/>
proportion to the expenses of preserv-<br/>
ing these public passages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At present, to avoid all difficulty<br/>
and oppression, nations settle these<br/>
points by treaties.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Lottery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great Lottery establishment of<br/>
Bangkok is located within the city<br/>
walls a little distance from Tapankán.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
It has been in operation from about<br/>
the middle of the last reign, having<br/>
been introduced from China. The<br/>
game consists in staking any amount<br/>
of money you please to any one of<br/>
thirty-four letters of the Siamese al-<br/>
phabet which you fancy will be a lucky<br/>
one. These thirty-four letters are<br/>
written on as many small blocks of<br/>
wood—one on each. On the opposite<br/>
side of each block is written a Chinese<br/>
character which answers to its Siamese<br/>
letter. One of these blocks is selected<br/>
by the master of the game sometime<br/>
before break of day, and hung up in<br/>
a bag in his office daily. Another is<br/>
selected and hung up in the same way<br/>
sometime before the close of each day.<br/>
The former is taken out of its conceal-<br/>
ment at an appointed hour every<br/>
morning and the latter every evening.<br/>
Whoever has staked money for the<br/>
morning game must have his certifi-<br/>
cate of the same presented at the time<br/>
of the drawing out of the morning let-<br/>
ter, and whoever has staked for the<br/>
evening game must be ready in the same<br/>
way for it. If, for example, one has<br/>
staked a Tical to a certain letter, and<br/>
that letter be the one taken from the bag<br/>
and the one he has had written in his<br/>
sealed certificate of the act, he draws<br/>
thirty-fold of the amount he staked,<br/>
and pays one of it to the lottery agent<br/>
who received the stake and wrote<br/>
the certificate. It is the business<br/>
of the agent to present to the mas-<br/>
ter the money staked, and a copy<br/>
of the certificate which he gave the<br/>
person who staked the money. The<br/>
agent gets for his pay 7½ cents for<br/>
every 5 ticals of stakes which he<br/>
hands over to the master. The least<br/>
sum allowed to be staked at a time<br/>
is five p, equal to one-tenth of a 7½<br/>
cents. The more common stake, is one<br/>
tical. Monied men often stake 20, 30, 40,<br/>
50 ticals or more. Should the letter<br/>
attached to a stake of 50 ticals corres-<br/>
pond with the letter drawn out of the<br/>
bag at the lottery it will draw thirty-<br/>
fold that amount, and the agent would<br/>
be entitled to 500 ticals of the same.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is estimated that there are more<br/>
than a thousand of these lottery agents<br/>
located in the city and its suburbs.<br/>
They are found seated at the corners<br/>
of nearly all the streets and lanes, and<br/>
all along the chief thoroughfares, do-<br/>
ing their utmost to induce men, wo-<br/>
men, and children to stake their mo-<br/>
ney for a prize. Chinese agents write<br/>
the certificates with the Chinese cha-<br/>
racter and the Siamese with Siamese<br/>
letters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is a perpetual operation, hav-<br/>
ing no Sabbath of rest and scarcely<br/>
any time for sleep. Every lottery<br/>
agent and enticer is of course interes-<br/>
ted in getting as great an amount of<br/>
stakes as possible. Because occasion-<br/>
ally one of them gets forty or fifty Tio-<br/>
als a day all others are stimulated<br/>
with the hope that they may have<br/>
the same good luck over and above<br/>
their regular pay for every 5 ticals<br/>
paid into the lottery. Hence there is<br/>
never any want of volunteer agents;<br/>
and all who volunteer are of course<br/>
accepted as they are never paid any<br/>
thing for their labor that does not go<br/>
directly to swell the gains of the lot-<br/>
tery. Failures in drawing seldom<br/>
stop the adventurer from trying it<br/>
again and again until he has not ano-<br/>
ther of that he can command for the<br/>
game. The agents are kept under<br/>
much the same exhausting excitement<br/>
until poverty stares them in the face<br/>
and compels them to seek some<br/>
other business. Thus are vast multi-<br/>
tudes of this city and to a great ex-<br/>
tent in the city, for a distance of<br/>
ten or fifteen miles kept under conti-<br/>
nual and corroding excitement, which in<br/>
19 cases out of twenty, at the least, is<br/>
utterly fruit-less tending perpetually to<br/>
poverty, slavery, and madness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The daily receipts at the lottery<br/>
office are said to be from 50 to 60<br/>
changes—-Ticals 4,000 and Ticals 4,800.<br/>
If we take the smaller sum as the aver-<br/>
age it would be equal to Ticals 1,460,000<br/>
annually. Of this sum the government<br/>
must have one-tenth that is Ticals 146,-<br/>
000. This revenue although great has<br/>
not the weight of a feather in the<br/>
scale of good, when compared with the<br/>
evils which the collecting of it from the<br/>
people produces. It is as it were blood<br/>
drawn from the vitals of the body po-<br/>
litic, and weakness, and disease, and<br/>
ulceration, and mortification given in<br/>
exchange for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Royal Polygamy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply to an article we had in our<br/>
last issue save one, on the expediency<br/>
of His Majesty the king's breaking<br/>
up his great harem, and abolishing po-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
lygamy in his own family, he has sent<br/>
us a verbal message to the purport,<br/>
that when we will stop the princes and<br/>
noblemen from offering their daughters<br/>
to him as concubines, then he will stop<br/>
receiving any more women in this ca-<br/>
pacity. In other words he would have<br/>
us and the public understand that he<br/>
does not feel that he should bear the<br/>
chief responsibility in this matter, but<br/>
that it belongs to the nobles and lords who<br/>
urge their daughters upon him, by the<br/>
force of custom handed down scores<br/>
of generations which he feels himself<br/>
impotent to stem. Thus does the king<br/>
prove himself to be a true son of Adam<br/>
who cast the blame of eating the for-<br/>
bidden fruit upon mother Eve, and she<br/>
in her turn upon the devil. We have<br/>
no doubt that His Satanic Majesty is<br/>
the prime mover in this violation of<br/>
the 7th commandment which is the di-<br/>
vine and admiral arrangement for the<br/>
propogation of the human species and<br/>
for the consequent fruitfulness and hap-<br/>
piness of man in this life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But while the king can prove that<br/>
his nobles and lords have importuned<br/>
him to recieve their prettiest daugh-<br/>
ters into the relation of concubines<br/>
that each might such have the honor<br/>
of being a father-in-law to the king<br/>
and the hope of having grandchildren<br/>
by them, who shall be known and hon-<br/>
ored as the sons and daughters of His<br/>
Majesty, can it be possible that he so-<br/>
riously flatters himself that he has<br/>
therefore in any sense been justified<br/>
in yielding to their importunities?<br/>
Had he not power to decline such off-<br/>
ers! If we have been correctly inform-<br/>
ed he has rejected many such 'simply<br/>
because he did not wish his family to<br/>
become half as large as that of his<br/>
half brother's the late king. If he<br/>
had power to limit the expansion of<br/>
his family to a number a little short<br/>
of an hundred concubines, and thus to<br/>
refuse three offers of beautiful women<br/>
to his brother's one, could he not have<br/>
refused ninety nine others?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our mother Eve made out a strong<br/>
plea in justification of her act of diso-<br/>
bedience. The devil had promised her<br/>
very great exaltation and power by it,<br/>
even divine knowledge of good and e-<br/>
vil. Could His Majesty have been<br/>
more powerfully tempted? He would<br/>
give us to think that had he refused to<br/>
accept of the daughters that were off-<br/>
ered him, he would have consequently<br/>
incurred the displeasure of his nobility.<br/>
and rendered himself liable of a sum-<br/>
mary expulsion from the throne. If<br/>
this were really his state of mind, he<br/>
must have felt himself miserably weak<br/>
although seated on the throne of the<br/>
Prabats. Such dependence on the<br/>
pleasure of his subjects can scarcely<br/>
find a parallel among all the nations of<br/>
this world. Queen Elizabeth of Eng-<br/>
land felt that she had power, even in<br/>
the childhood of that nation, to reject<br/>
all proposals made to her that she should<br/>
have a royal Consort. But the king of<br/>
Siam has felt himself too weak to say<br/>
no to any one of the scores of pretty<br/>
girls that have been offered him. The<br/>
truth is His Majesty would honor him-<br/>
self more by frankly acknowledging<br/>
that he has from the beginning "loved<br/>
many women" and that this is the sole<br/>
reason why he has so many in his ha-<br/>
rem, than he does by pleading his im-<br/>
potency in resisting the abominable<br/>
custom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But since the king has thus plunged<br/>
himself into this accursed polygamy,<br/>
which God once "winked at" it is true<br/>
but "now commands men every where to<br/>
repent" of it, how shall he get out<br/>
of it.? As it is a great sin committed<br/>
in probation there must be some way<br/>
by which he can repent and forsake<br/>
it. The question how, is a great one<br/>
as it has to deal with a polygamy of<br/>
monstrous dimensions and gigantic<br/>
power. We feel it to be our duty to<br/>
give our views on the question, and<br/>
will therefore venture to do so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first step is for His Majesty to<br/>
determine that he will now stop add-<br/>
ing any more to the great number he<br/>
has. It is rumoured that the king has<br/>
his eye upon another princess of the<br/>
highest rank with a view of constitu-<br/>
ting her a Queen Consort. Now con-<br/>
sidering that he is full three score and<br/>
three years of age, that he has already<br/>
scores of concubines and about four<br/>
score sons and daughters, with several<br/>
Chowfahs among them, and hence eli-<br/>
gible to the highest posts of honor in<br/>
the kingdom, this rumour seems to be<br/>
too monstrous to be credited. But the<br/>
truth is there is scarcely anything too<br/>
monstrous for the royal polygamy of<br/>
Siam to bring forth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the second place, it strikes us<br/>
that if we were in such a predicament<br/>
as His Majesty, and possessed the<br/>
light we now do, we would say to all<br/>
our concubines, that we now see their<br/>
relation to us involves both them, and<br/>
us in deep guilt in the sight of our ma-<br/>
ker and judge—-that he commands us<br/>
to repent of it aud forsake it-—that<br/>
hence we dare not have it continued<br/>
any longer—that we will guarantee<br/>
them a comfortable support through<br/>
life,—-and that they must now cease to<br/>
be any part of our family. But in<br/>
regard to the children by them, we<br/>
shall continue to account them as<br/>
our own, and protect and love and<br/>
honor them as much as if their moth-<br/>
ers had not been divorced from us.<br/>
This would indeed be a heart rending<br/>
work, but not more so than the holy<br/>
and righteous law of the most High<br/>
God requires in such a case. It<br/>
would indeed be like plucking out<br/>
the eye, which the Son of God taught<br/>
must be done with darling sins. It<br/>
would be no more severe than the<br/>
prophet Ezra required of the one<br/>
hundred and eight rulers, nobles, and<br/>
priests and others of Israel who “had<br/>
taken strange wives and had children<br/>
by them.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Will His Majesty still think that<br/>
this is an unreasonable and im-<br/>
possible requirement? It was not so,<br/>
it seems, with the viceroy of Egypt.<br/>
The king of Siam did not account it<br/>
unreasonable in Buddhism to require<br/>
him to divorce his first and only wife<br/>
that he might enter the priesthood.<br/>
He would not consider it unreasona-<br/>
ble in Buddhism to require him to<br/>
divorce every concubine he has, and<br/>
even his queen if he had one, for the<br/>
sake of obtaining the state of eternal<br/>
unconsciousness called Nippán. How<br/>
much more reasonable then is it in<br/>
Christianity to require him to abolish<br/>
polygamy for the sake of the ever-<br/>
lasting favor of God in the enjoy-<br/>
ment of Eternal life?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty's temple visitation in<br/>
this city began on the 9th inst. and were<br/>
closed on the 19th. In the course of<br/>
these 11 days he worshipped the im-<br/>
age of Buddha and gave yellow robes<br/>
and other gifts to the priests in about<br/>
forty wats. The other 70 or 80<br/>
temples within the city will all, as we<br/>
suppose, have similar gifts carried to<br/>
them by others, if that has not already<br/>
been done, as this is the season for<br/>
such honor to be conferred upon them.<br/>
Those of them that have been dedi-<br/>
cated to the king, will have some prince<br/>
of high rank visit them in the name<br/>
of the king, and such as have not thus<br/>
the claim of royalty will not be neg-<br/>
lected by their friends in regard to<br/>
their annual gifts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that His Majesty has<br/>
distinguished some of the royal tem-<br/>
ples by presenting the priests with<br/>
money as well as the clerical robes,<br/>
and that to some he gave 20 Ticals<br/>
and some 40.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Princes, nobles, lords and people are<br/>
now-a-days all awake early and late in<br/>
carrying the kat'ins, that is the yellow<br/>
clerical robes, to the several temples<br/>
of their choice, and each company ap-<br/>
pears to account it a very important<br/>
part of the ceremony to make a great<br/>
noise about it, in sounding trumpets,<br/>
beating drums, rattling cymbals and<br/>
shouting that all may take knowledge<br/>
of them that they are faithful to Budd-<br/>
ha and to his priesthood.—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home the Prime minister left this city<br/>
on the 17th for a pleasure excursion<br/>
to the North with a large retinue, all<br/>
being conveyed in oar-barges. He is<br/>
expected to return on the 26th inst.<br/>
It is understood that he is deputized<br/>
by the king to visit the royal temples in<br/>
several distant cities in the name of<br/>
His Majesty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There appears now to be a greater<br/>
amount of water in the Menam than<br/>
at any previous time this year, al-<br/>
though the rains have ceased for near-<br/>
ly a month, and we are enjoying the<br/>
most delightful weather. In this we<br/>
have a little of the experience of the<br/>
inhabitants of lower Egypt. The<br/>
wonder has ever been, whence comes<br/>
the water in the times of the overflow-<br/>
ings of the Nile, since no rain falls<br/>
there, and the river has no tributaries<br/>
for more than a thousand miles. The<br/>
solution of the rising of our river<br/>
overflowing her banks now, is that the<br/>
great abundance of rain water hurrying at<br/>
the North in its downward flow has but<br/>
just now reached us, and that compara-<br/>
tively but little of it has evaporated<br/>
since it fell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed, that the<br/>
four immense spars of timber designed<br/>
for the main pillars of the royal pro-<br/>
mane or canopy for the obsequies of<br/>
His Majesty the late 2nd King of<br/>
Siam, who deceased more than 10<br/>
months since, have been lost in the<br/>
Gulf of Siam. The circumstances of<br/>
the accident as related to us are,—<br/>
that one of His Majesty's steamers<br/>
had them in tow bringing them from<br/>
the Siamese coast on the gulf, and<br/>
getting out of coal and wood on<br/>
certain soundings a few miles from<br/>
the Bar, managed to anchor the raft<br/>
and came into Paknum for fuel. On<br/>
going back for the spars they were<br/>
not to be found,—the strong north-<br/>
wind having sent them adrift. This<br/>
occurred some four weeks ago, and<br/>
steamers and sail-boats, not a few,<br/>
have been sent out by the Siamese<br/>
government in search of them: but all<br/>
in vain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Ross on his way up the<br/>
Gulf about three weeks since, reports<br/>
that he saw what he now thinks must<br/>
have been those spars, about 20 miles<br/>
South of the anchorage. One of his<br/>
officers seeing them ahead at the dis-<br/>
tance of several miles took them to<br/>
be land and cried out Land ho!<br/>
The captain was quite startled to<br/>
think that he was so much out of his<br/>
reckoning, as to meet land so unex-<br/>
pectedly. The lead was cast and show-<br/>
ed 20 fathoms of water. The ship<br/>
was allowed cautiously to approach<br/>
nearer, and when within a half a<br/>
mile sheered off to avoid collision.<br/>
It was then concluded that the land<br/>
had turned into a great mass of flood<br/>
wood, and no more was thought of it<br/>
until arrival in port.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There appears to be little probabil-<br/>
ity that the spars will be found, and<br/>
consequently the obsequies of the<br/>
late 2nd King will have to be post-<br/>
poned many months. It was ar-<br/>
ranged to have the ceremonies come<br/>
off sometime in the month of March<br/>
next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A company of Karens have recently<br/>
arrived from British Burmah with let-<br/>
ters, as we learn, from some British<br/>
functionary to H. B. M's. Consul in this<br/>
city, seeking redress for the Karens<br/>
for the capture of an elephant from<br/>
the latter by a Siamese party on the<br/>
borders of Burmah and Siam. It ap-<br/>
pears that the Karens bring good evi-<br/>
dence of having seen the elephant in<br/>
the possession of the Siamese. The<br/>
beast is thought to be worth about<br/>
Ticals 400.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The 2nd Royal fire works on the ri-<br/>
ver began last evening and will be com-<br/>
pleted to morrow evening. The full<br/>
moon now riding in great splendor in<br/>
the cloudless heavens is quite too light<br/>
for these little taper exhibitions of hu-<br/>
man royalty. It is quite exhilarating<br/>
to glide up and down the river these<br/>
cool evenings. The strong moon-light<br/>
shining on the trees and houses gives<br/>
them quite the look of being covered<br/>
with frost.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Siamese steamer<br/>
yatch Arrow burst her boiler several<br/>
days since somewhere near the mouth<br/>
of Meklong river; but strange to re-<br/>
late, no person was seriously injured<br/>
by the accident. It is said that one<br/>
man was thrown overboord, but being a<br/>
swimmer, as nearly all the Siamese are,<br/>
he got aboard again shortly without in-<br/>
jury. Several persons were slightly<br/>
scalded and otherwise wounded. It<br/>
appears that the steam guage of the<br/>
boiler had got out of repair and hence<br/>
deceived the engineer so that he fired<br/>
up beyond the endurance of the boil-<br/>
er.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is quite remarkable that this is<br/>
the first accident of the kind that the<br/>
Siamese have had since the introduc-<br/>
tion of steam power nine years ago.<br/>
They have had several narrow escapes<br/>
by which their engineers have had a<br/>
little warning. It is to be hoped that<br/>
this occurrence will put them more on<br/>
their guard, not in the reduction of<br/>
their speed by any means, for that is<br/>
always moderate enough, but in re-<br/>
guard to keeping their engines in good<br/>
repair.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The last Buddh. Gaudama.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Various writers who have taken up the<br/>
subject of the last Buddh, have written<br/>
the name as Gautemah, which is incor-<br/>
rect, because it does not convey the idea<br/>
which the correct vernacular orthography<br/>
does. The closing syllables are Da-ma<br/>
which signify sacred or Holy. The learn-<br/>
ed Bishop Bigandet has accepted the or-<br/>
thography followed by all persons, who<br/>
have any knowledge of the Burmese lang-<br/>
uage, and in this respect, is in conformity<br/>
with all the ancient writers among the<br/>
Burmese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gaudama was a great historical charac-<br/>
ter. The Hindoos consider this personage<br/>
to have been one of the incarnations of<br/>
Vishnu, but there appears to be a discrep-<br/>
ancy of about five hundred years in the<br/>
Hindoo and Buddhist accounts of the ap-<br/>
pearance of this heathen god. The Gauda-<br/>
ma of Buddhist writers appeared in the<br/>
world about five hundred years anterior<br/>
to the birth of Christ.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As mentioned in a former notice of the<br/>
excellent work, entitled, "The Life and<br/>
Legend of Gaudama," the Right Reverend<br/>
Bishop Bigandet translates into English,<br/>
from a work which is itself a translation.<br/>
Most of the ancient books relating to the<br/>
last Buddh were written in Pali, which<br/>
holds precisely the same relation to the<br/>
Buddhist scriptures, as Hebrew does to the<br/>
Bible of Christians. It is doubtful wheth-<br/>
er Pali was ever anything more, than a<br/>
learned or dead language among the Bur-<br/>
mese. But from Pali the Life and Legend<br/>
of Gaudama was translated into the ver-<br/>
nacular of this country. The Burmese trans-<br/>
lator who was a believer in this form of<br/>
faith, thus commences his work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I adore Buddha, who has gloriously<br/>
emerged from the bottomless whirlpool of<br/>
endless existences, who has extinguished<br/>
the burning fire of anger and other pas-<br/>
sions; who opened and illuminated the<br/>
fathomless abyss of dark ignorance, and<br/>
who is the greatest and most excellent of<br/>
all beings."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I adore the law which the most excellent<br/>
Buddha has published, which is infinitely<br/>
high and incomparably profound and ex-<br/>
ceedingly acceptable and most earnestly<br/>
wished for by Nats and men, capable to<br/>
wipe off the stains of concupiscence and<br/>
is immutable."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I adore the assembly of the perfect, of<br/>
the pure and illustrious Arihas in their<br/>
eight sublime states, who have overcome<br/>
all the passions that torment other mortals,<br/>
by eradicating the very root of concupis-<br/>
cence, and who are famous above all other<br/>
beings."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I undertake to translate from the Pali<br/>
text, the history of our most excellent<br/>
Patara from the period he left Tavatsa the<br/>
fourth abode of Nats to the time he entered<br/>
into the state of Nêrûban."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vernacular translator thus makes a<br/>
brief confession of his faith, with a view of<br/>
showing his qualification for the task he<br/>
undertakes. "It is his intention not to<br/>
give "the worthy Bishop, remarks in a<br/>
foot note in reference to the translator,<br/>
"the history of Buddh during the count-less<br/>
existences that have preceded the last one,<br/>
when he obtained the supreme intelli-<br/>
gence." The narrative was to commence<br/>
from the time Gaudama was at Tavatsa<br/>
or the joyful abode of the Nats, and to be<br/>
continued up to the period of his attain-<br/>
ing Neibban, or annihilation."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The father of Gaudama was King Thoke-<br/>
dan-thana, and his mother was Manlau<br/>
Mayah. The spelling in English of Bur-<br/>
mese names rests wholly on personal taste.<br/>
There is no fixed standard to guide. The<br/>
sound is given and then letters are used to<br/>
bring it as near as possible to the original.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The worthy Bishop thus describes the<br/>
Birth of Buddha in a forest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The time of her approaching confine-<br/>
ment being close at hand the princess soli-<br/>
cited from her husband King Taoke-dau-<br/>
thana leave to go to the country of Dewah<br/>
amongst her friends and relatives. As soon<br/>
as her request was made known, the King<br/>
ordered that the whole extent of the road<br/>
between Kapilawot and Dewah should be<br/>
perfectly level and lined on both sides with<br/>
plantain trees, and adorned with the finest<br/>
ornaments. Jars full of the purest water<br/>
were to be deposited all along the road at<br/>
short intervals. A chair of gold was made<br/>
ready for conveying the Queen. A thousand<br/>
noblemen, attended by an innumerable<br/>
retinue were directed to accompany her<br/>
during the journey. Between the two<br/>
countries an immense forest of lofty<br/>
Engyin trees extends at a great distance.<br/>
As soon as the cortège reached it, the five<br/>
water lilies shot forth spontaneously from<br/>
the stem and main branches of each. In-<br/>
numerable birds of all kinds by their<br/>
melodious tunes filled the air with the most<br/>
ravishing music. Trees similar in beauty<br/>
to those growing in the seats of the Nats,<br/>
apparently sensible of the incarnated<br/>
Buddha, seemed to share in the universal<br/>
joy."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is truly a graphic description of the<br/>
commencement of the royal journey and<br/>
shows the descriptive powers possessed by<br/>
the excellent Bishop. The meagre work<br/>
of rendering word for-word would make<br/>
it a most dry and uninviting production.<br/>
Continuing the narrative, the Bishop<br/>
proceeds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"On beholding this wonderful appear-<br/>
ance of all the lofty trees of the forest, the<br/>
queen felt a desire to approach nearer and<br/>
enjoy the marvellous sight, offered to her<br/>
astonished regards. Her noble attendants<br/>
led her forth with a short distance into the<br/>
forest. Main seated on her couch, along<br/>
with her sister Patsapaty desired her at-<br/>
tendants to have it moved closer to an<br/>
Engyin tree [Shorea robusta] which she<br/>
pointed out. Her wishes were immediate-<br/>
ly complied with. She then rose gently<br/>
on her couch, her left hand round the neck<br/>
of her sister, supported her in a standing<br/>
position with the right hand she tried to<br/>
reach and break a small branch which she<br/>
wanted to carry away. On that very in-<br/>
stant as the slender rattan heated by fire<br/>
bursts down its tender head, all the bran-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ches lowered their extremities offering<br/>
themselves as it were to the hand of the<br/>
Queen, who unhesitatingly seized and<br/>
broke the extremity of one of the young<br/>
boughs. By virtue of a certain power in-<br/>
herent in her dignity on a sudden all the<br/>
winds blew gently through the forest.<br/>
The attendants having desired all the peo-<br/>
ple to withdraw to a distance, disposed<br/>
curtains all round the place, on which the<br/>
queen was standing. Whilst she was in<br/>
that position, admiring the slender bough<br/>
she held in her hands the moment of her<br/>
confinement happened and she was deliver-<br/>
ed of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Four chief Brahmas received the new<br/>
born infant on a golden net work and<br/>
placed him in the presence of the happy<br/>
mother, saying “Give yourself up O<br/>
Queen to joy and rejoicing. Here is the<br/>
precious and wonderful fruit of your<br/>
womb.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“From the hands of the four chief Brah-<br/>
mas four chief of Nats received the bless-<br/>
ed child, whom they handed over to men,<br/>
who placed him on a beautiful white cloth.<br/>
But to the astonishment of all he freed<br/>
himself from the hand of those attending<br/>
upon him, and stood in a firm and erect<br/>
position on the ground. Casting then a<br/>
glance towards the east, more than one<br/>
thousand worlds appeared like a perfectly<br/>
levelled plain. All the Nats inhabiting<br/>
those worlds made offerings of flowers and<br/>
perfumes, exclaiming with exultation:—<br/>
“An exalted personage has made his ap-<br/>
pearance, who can ever be compared to<br/>
him? Who has equalled him? He is in-<br/>
deed the most excellent of all beings.<br/>
Paraloung looked again towards the three<br/>
other directions. Lifting up his eyes<br/>
above and then lowering them down, he<br/>
saw there was no being equal to him.<br/>
Conscious of his superiority, he jumped<br/>
over a distance of seven lengths of a foot<br/>
in a northern direction exclaiming:—“Tals<br/>
is my last birth there shall be no other<br/>
state of existence. I am the greatest of all<br/>
beings.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He then began to walk steadily in the<br/>
same direction. A chief of Brahmas held<br/>
over his head the white umbrella. A Nat<br/>
carried the golden fan. Other nats held<br/>
in their hands the golden sword, the golden<br/>
slippers, the cope set with the rarest pre-<br/>
cious stones and other royal insignia.”<br/>
Gaudama as thus described was not only<br/>
able to use his limbs but his mental facul-<br/>
ties from the first moments of his exis-<br/>
tence. But of course no belief would be<br/>
placed in him without some such super-<br/>
natural gifts being ascribed to him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is singular about this personage<br/>
is, that during his life time, there was<br/>
nothing written down concerning his his-<br/>
tory his teachings or his laws. They ap-<br/>
pear to have been handed down by tradi-<br/>
tion only from one generation to another,<br/>
and to have been written out by his fol-<br/>
lowers some two or three hundred years<br/>
after his death. Though the present system<br/>
of Buddhism is attributed to this particular<br/>
person called Gaudama, yet it is very<br/>
evident that he had little or nothing to do<br/>
with it. The writers of the system were<br/>
perfectly safe in ascribing it to a teacher,<br/>
who had lived over two hundred years be-<br/>
fore them. No test could then be deman-<br/>
ded of its supernatural character. These<br/>
might have been asked, when the teacher<br/>
lived, who is said to be its author, but as<br/>
the books were written at a long period<br/>
afterwards, the real inventors of it might<br/>
well escape the proof required, by attribut-<br/>
ing the good or evil of it, to one who had<br/>
long since passed away.—RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
French Neatness.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is quite certain that unless you go<br/>
into the very haunts of vice, where mis-<br/>
ery is born and bred, you will never see<br/>
any of Paris. The boot black, from the<br/>
peculiar nature of his occupation, ap-<br/>
pears to be on less familiar terms with<br/>
soap and water than any other of the<br/>
human family, and in England and Amer-<br/>
ica holds his rags and dirt as preroga-<br/>
tives. But the Paris boot-black, is al-<br/>
ways a man; he is always clad in uni-<br/>
form, generally of a blue plush, and any<br/>
lady might shake hands with him with-<br/>
out gloves and without fear. His box<br/>
is very large, and he carries a camp stool,<br/>
which supersedes the necessity of balan-<br/>
cing on one leg during the process of<br/>
polishing. When asked what is due<br/>
them, they invariably reply 'what you<br/>
please.' The fee is about five cents, but<br/>
I tried one once with a one cent piece,<br/>
to see how much sincerity there was in<br/>
his 'what you please.' Off came his<br/>
hat,—down went his bow,—and you<br/>
might have supposed from his 'merci,<br/>
monsieur,' that I had given him a franc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The workmen also have a uniform, or<br/>
rather they all dress alike, with white<br/>
pants and blue blouses. Instead of our<br/>
poor tatardemallions, in flattering rags<br/>
of every hue, vests wrong side out,<br/>
grandfather's coats on small boys, sho[?]ing<br/>
and over-grown boots, one sees in<br/>
the French laborers a respectable and<br/>
really picturesque company. I think<br/>
there must be some law against rags, for<br/>
the very beggars wear the same white<br/>
pants, and blue frocks, cheap and coarse,<br/>
but decent looking until utterly worn<br/>
out. The withered women who sell<br/>
jimeracks at street corners, and even the<br/>
fat fishmongers in the greasy stalls, look<br/>
fresh and blooming in their starched<br/>
white caps and clean calicoes. The very<br/>
herrings seem graceful under their touch,<br/>
though they had arms like Amazons.<br/>
It was wonderful to see into what a<br/>
garden the vegetable market could be<br/>
transformed, merely by the arrangement<br/>
of carrots and cabbages. Workmen,<br/>
fishmongers, beggars and all has flowers.<br/>
You are constantly saying, 'this is theat-<br/>
rical,' 'this is like ideal stage life where<br/>
everybody is romantic.' 'Is it possible<br/>
that these are real men and women, or is<br/>
it all a dream that bewilders me?' Then<br/>
you walk through the garden of the<br/>
Tuilleries again where hundreds of wom-<br/>
en have brought their knitting and their<br/>
families to pass the day under the shade<br/>
of the trees. There the rich and poor<br/>
children play together, but there is no<br/>
squabbling, nor rolling in the dirt, no<br/>
screams of delight or of fear. You can-<br/>
not believe your ears when you hear one<br/>
small tot say to another, 'C'est pas gen-<br/>
til,' and observe the instantaneous effect<br/>
produced by those five words.—CORRES-<br/>
PONDENCE BOSTON TRAVELER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chicago Tribune supplies the follow-<br/>
ing singular matrimonial story:—The Hon.<br/>
Oudau Browne were re-married a short<br/>
time since at New Haven. They were first<br/>
married nearly a quarter of a century ago,<br/>
lived happily for some time, and became<br/>
parents of two sons, now grown up.<br/>
Trouble came and they were divorced.<br/>
Mr. Browne married again, and after liv-<br/>
ing with his second wife for a number of<br/>
years was divorced from her. He finally<br/>
renewed the acquaintance of his first wife,<br/>
and the result was that he has now led her<br/>
to the altar for the second time!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Scientific.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pasture grounds of the Himalayas<br/>
are for the most at low elevations, but, in<br/>
Thibet the sheep graze in summer as high<br/>
as 18,000 to 16,349 feet. The greatest<br/>
mountain height visited by man is 22,259<br/>
feet, attained by the Brothers Schlagint-<br/>
wiet on the thanks of the Ibi Gamin, while<br/>
one of the stations of the Trigonometrical<br/>
Survey, at which observations were taken<br/>
by Mr. Johnson, was more than 21,000<br/>
feet high. The highest balloon ascent,<br/>
Messrs. Glaisher and Coxwell, is suppos-<br/>
ed to have been nearly 40,000 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With healthy people the influence of<br/>
height upon the system generally begins to<br/>
be seriously perceptible at about 16,000<br/>
feet, the complaints produced by diminish-<br/>
ed pressure being 'headache, difficulty of<br/>
respiration, and affection of the lungs, the<br/>
latter even proceeding so far as to occas-<br/>
ion blood-spitting, want of appetite and<br/>
even sickness, muscular weakness, and a<br/>
general depression and lowness of spirits."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Don't Do It.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't speak that unkind word, and<br/>
thus make sad the heart of another.<br/>
Speak gently; 'tis better.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't make the burden of another<br/>
heavier, when it is in your power to<br/>
lighten the same. Keep in good<br/>
humor; anger is a waste of vitality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man and no boy does his best<br/>
except when cheerful. A light heart<br/>
makes nimble hands and keeps the<br/>
body healthy and free. Don't let<br/>
others say that you are selfish and<br/>
only care for yourself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't neglect that precious soul<br/>
committed to your charge, remember<br/>
it must live forever!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't waste the Sabbath : its hours<br/>
are too valuable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't turn away from the Bible ; it<br/>
is the book by which you will be<br/>
judged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't speak against christians; re-<br/>
member their faults will not save you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't live for the world; remember<br/>
the endless future.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Preaching Like Old Hundred.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On one occasion, when Dr. Taylor<br/>
preaching at Worcester, a gentleman<br/>
of the congregation, who had been, as<br/>
he saw, a most attentive listener, stop-<br/>
ped after the service, and offering him<br/>
his hand, thanked him with great ear-<br/>
nestness, saying, 'Your preaching<br/>
sounded like the tune of Old Hundred.<br/>
'It was the best compliment I ever<br/>
received,' said the doctor. 'The<br/>
preacher who has the depth and sa-<br/>
credness and power to move the mul-<br/>
titude which that honored tune has,<br/>
ought to be grateful to his master.'<br/>
Yes, we need rich thoughts and ear-<br/>
nest devotion. -Rhetorical flourishes,<br/>
the superficial and showy may captivate<br/>
at first, but they will not last. Preach<br/>
as near as you can to Old Hundred.<br/>
That tune wears.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE HOME PAPERS, state, that in<br/>
addition to providing the finest fleet of<br/>
transports hitherto built for the convey-<br/>
ance of troops to and from the East, a<br/>
commodious hospital will be erected at<br/>
Suez, for the reception of invalid soldiers<br/>
requiring rest and medical treatment af-<br/>
ter the passage from India, and before<br/>
undertaking the run across the desert;<br/>
and if, on arriving at Alexandria, any<br/>
should be found too ill to embark imme-<br/>
diately, arrangements have already been<br/>
concluded with the authorities of a for-<br/>
eign hospital in that city for their re-<br/>
ception.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Turn Brams, of the air and to sustain<br/>
thee; the beasts of the fields die to nour-<br/>
ish thee; the fishes of the sea die to feed<br/>
thee; our stomachs are their common<br/>
sepulchre, with how many deaths are our<br/>
poor lives patched up; how full of death<br/>
is the life of momentary man.—-QuARLES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"MY DEAR MURPHY." Said an Irish-<br/>
man to his friend, "why did you betray<br/>
the secret I told you?" "Is it betraying<br/>
you call it? Sure, when I found I wasn't<br/>
able to keep it myself, didn't I do well<br/>
to tell it to somebody that could?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A FRENCH, comic paper, APROPOS of<br/>
the needle gun, says a weapon has been<br/>
invented which fires twenty balls a min-<br/>
ute and has a musical box in the butt,<br/>
thus doing away with the necessity of<br/>
regimental bands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE EMPEROR NAPOLEON, has just<br/>
subscribed ten thousand francs towards<br/>
the erection of a monument to Joan of<br/>
Arc, and the restoration of the Donjon<br/>
tower at Rouen where she was tortured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NATURE.—-Bids me love myself, and<br/>
hate all that hurt me ; reason bids me<br/>
love my friends, and hate those who en-<br/>
vy me; religion bids me love all and hate<br/>
none. Nature showeth care, reason wit,<br/>
religion love. Nature may induce me,<br/>
reason persuade me, but religion shall<br/>
rule me. I will hearken to nature in<br/>
much, to reason in more, to religion in<br/>
all.—-WARWICK.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN AMERICAN PAPER SAYS:—-"The Em-<br/>
peror Maximilian's European despatch for<br/>
the Atlantic cable, to his wife in France,<br/>
cost 15,364 dols. in gold, and was nearly<br/>
700 words in cipher."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
IT is stated that £20,000 has been pro-<br/>
mised by a lady to Mr. C. H. Spurgeon to<br/>
found an orphanage in connection with the<br/>
Metropolitan Tabernacle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Queens of England and Madagascar<br/>
have concluded a treaty of alliance. Its<br/>
chief provisions are as follows:—-the treaty<br/>
declares that British subjects in the dom-<br/>
inions of her Majesty the Queen of Mada-<br/>
gascar shall be allowed freely to exercise<br/>
and teach the Christian religion and to<br/>
erect and maintain suitable places of<br/>
worship, to be recognised as the property<br/>
of the Queen of Madagascar, who shall<br/>
permit them to be applied for ever to the<br/>
special purposes for which they shall have<br/>
been built. Full religious liberty is also<br/>
granted by the Queen of Madagascar to all<br/>
her own subjects. The Queen of Madagas-<br/>
car further engages that British subjects<br/>
shall, equally with her own subjects, enjoy<br/>
within her dominions full and complete<br/>
protection and security for themselves and<br/>
property, and that a British Resident shall<br/>
be received in her capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEWS of the sudden and fatal ac-<br/>
cident which befel the Bishop of Calcutta<br/>
at Kooshtea, reached Calcutta by telegram<br/>
on Saturday evening, and throughout the<br/>
following Sunday there were many sorrow-<br/>
ful enquiries as to the particulars. It<br/>
appears that the Bishop had just returned<br/>
to Kooshtea from an educational tour in<br/>
Assam, and after consecrating the new<br/>
cemetery at that place, was returning on<br/>
board the Government yacht RHOTAN when<br/>
he fell off the plank connecting it with<br/>
the shore. He was never seen again and<br/>
every attempt to recover the body has been<br/>
in vain. Rarely has a public event<br/>
in India been so generally regarded as a<br/>
national calamity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DR. ANDERSON'S report on Chinchona<br/>
cultivation at Darjeeling shows that 70,960<br/>
cuttings were made during last August—a<br/>
number far exceeding that obtained in any<br/>
previous month. The total number of<br/>
plants was thus raised to 379,202, of<br/>
which 34,134 were in permanent planta-<br/>
tions. About 9 acres of land were planted<br/>
during the month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PLASTER FOR LICE.—-Jon. Nichols, of<br/>
Honesdale, Pa., says that applications of<br/>
powdered plaster of Paris have been<br/>
found effectual in killing lice on domestic<br/>
animals. This virtue of gypsum was<br/>
discovered accidentally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRESERVATION OF EGGS.-—Put eggs in-<br/>
to a cask, and then fill with tallow, warm-<br/>
ed so as to run, and, being protected<br/>
from the action of the air by the mass of<br/>
tallow, they will keep fresh any length of<br/>
time, and are so preserved at sea without<br/>
difficulty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NEW USE OF FLAX SEED.-—An Eng-<br/>
lish paper reports a new substance that<br/>
has the properties of India rubber, that<br/>
has lately been made from linseed oil, by<br/>
oxydising it until it is solidified into a<br/>
resinous substance. It is called Linoleum.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FIFTEEN quarts of milk generally make<br/>
one pound of butter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE great affliction of Burmah is the<br/>
cattle disease. Thousands of buffaloes<br/>
and oxen, which are so necessary to aid<br/>
the cultivators in ploughing their fields<br/>
and in treading out the grain are swept<br/>
away every year as by a scourge of des-<br/>
truction. The Arakan Division however<br/>
has suffered less in this respect than Pegu.<br/>
It is hoped that the recent investigation<br/>
which has been made into this cattle mur-<br/>
rain and the professional advice which<br/>
has been freely tendered to the people in<br/>
their own vernacular tongue will be at-<br/>
tended with the happiest effects in the fu-<br/>
ture, in assuaging this great evil of Bur-<br/>
mah.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_3_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I DO HEREBY give notice, that I<br/>
will not be responsible for any<br/>
debts incurred by the officers, or crew<br/>
of the British barque Evangeline dur-<br/>
ing her stay in this port.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN E. ADAMS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, Nov. 18th 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colonial Comparison.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The total charge of France for her<br/>
twelve colonies, Martinique, Guadaloo-<br/>
upe, Reunion, the penal settlement of<br/>
Guyana, Senegal, Gold Coast, Saint Pier-<br/>
re and Miquelon, St. Mary of Madagas-<br/>
car, Mayotte, Thaiti, Novelle Caledonie<br/>
and India was £948,228. Algeria and<br/>
Cochin China are not classed as colonies.<br/>
India, that is to say Pondicherry and<br/>
Mahe, cost only, for their civil and mili-<br/>
tary government, 543,580 frs., or 21,743l.<br/>
Our forty English colonies cost England<br/>
£5,509,465, while India not only pays all<br/>
her own expenses, but is a remunerative<br/>
field for capital, pays the holders of East<br/>
India Stock, and above all affords a<br/>
satisfactory career for our middle clas-<br/>
ses, who take out of India a good deal<br/>
of money year, though it must not be<br/>
forgotten that by their energy and skill<br/>
they create a vast deal more wealth than<br/>
they abstract.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How to Keep out the Moths.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A good old lady gave the best receipt to<br/>
her niece, whom she found one day examin-<br/>
ing her wardrobe. It had been copied<br/>
from an old-fashioned book, and was this:<br/>
"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon<br/>
earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt,<br/>
and where thieves break through and<br/>
steal; but lay up for yourselves treasures<br/>
in heaven, where neither moth nor rust<br/>
doth corrupt, and where thieves do not<br/>
break through nor steal." The application<br/>
of this ancient receipt is very simple:<br/>
Look over the wardrobe, and bring out all<br/>
that can be spared,—-blankets and shawls,<br/>
coats and cloaks,—-and send them to the<br/>
poor in time; let the widow of the destitute<br/>
have them before the moths have begun<br/>
their inroads. "He that hath two coats<br/>
let him impart to him that hath none."<br/>
This will do more to keep out moths than<br/>
all the cedar closets, or snuff and camphor,<br/>
in the world; and will be likely, if done in<br/>
a Christian, generous spirit, to secure the<br/>
blessing of Him that maketh rich, and<br/>
doubly sweeten what is left.—-N. Y. Obs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Devastation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The Secretary of the New York<br/>
Chamber of Commerce,” says the Hong-<br/>
kong Daily Press, “has compiled a<br/>
complete table of all the vessels destroy-<br/>
ed by privateers during the American<br/>
Rebellion, comprising also the value of<br/>
cargo and vessel, date of capture and<br/>
destruction, and all items of interest<br/>
connected therewith. The captured prop-<br/>
erty is found to be of the value of $25,<br/>
500,000, of which $20,000,000, was ut-<br/>
terly destroyed. The rest were chiefly<br/>
bonded. The number of piratical ves-<br/>
sels engaged in this devastation was, viz;<br/>
steamers 14; barks 5; brigs 1; schooners<br/>
5; total 25.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number and classes of vessels<br/>
destroyed were; steamers 4; ships 61;<br/>
barks 74; brigs 35; schooners 61; total<br/>
235; tonnage 103,032.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ALABAMA captured 2 steamers,<br/>
34 ships, 22 barks, 5 brigs, 6 schooners;<br/>
value including cargoes, $9,700,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The FLORIDA captured 1 steamer, 10<br/>
ships, 10 barks, 8 brigs, and 7 schooners.<br/>
These with their cargoes were valued at<br/>
$5,464,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The SHENANDOAH captured 10 ships,<br/>
25 barks, 1 brig, and 2 schooners, valued<br/>
with cargoes at $2,888,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sensation in France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have only to read the French press<br/>
to ascertain how deep and wide spread a<br/>
sensation has been produced in the minds<br/>
of the French people, or perhaps in the<br/>
minds of those who write for them, by<br/>
the Prussian victories. M. Foresade re-<br/>
minds us of our alarmists at home.<br/>
France is able to bring 700,000 men in-<br/>
to the field, on a few days notice, yet it<br/>
is discovered that the country is defence-<br/>
less, virtually without an army. The<br/>
sudden vault of Prussia to the rank of a<br/>
first rate military power is viewed with<br/>
jealousy and almost with apprehension.<br/>
The wilder spirits discourse of immedi-<br/>
ate war, and already snift the coming<br/>
carnage. We rejoice to believe that the<br/>
Emperor does not share in these pas-<br/>
sionate illusions. He has given no rea-<br/>
son for supposing that he is envious of<br/>
the success of Prussia, or that he sees in<br/>
it any danger for France. He knows<br/>
that France is too strong to have the re-<br/>
motest cause of apprehension. Twice<br/>
as populous as Prussia, more than equal<br/>
in numbers to the whole of Germany,<br/>
with one of the most numerous and best<br/>
disciplined armies in the world, what<br/>
can France have to fear? Moreover the<br/>
movement in Germany is in harmony<br/>
with the Emperor's most cherished poli-<br/>
cy. He sees that there can be no lasting<br/>
peace in Europe save upon the basis of<br/>
satisfied nationalities. He aims at sup-<br/>
pressing revolutions abroad by extingui-<br/>
shing the materials that breed them.<br/>
This is one explanation of the sagacious<br/>
and statesman-like policy which he has<br/>
pursued in dealing with Italy. His poli-<br/>
cy has been completely triumphant there:<br/>
one volcano has become extinct; why<br/>
should he object to another undergoing<br/>
the same fate? The prospects of his<br/>
dynasty are linked with the prosperity<br/>
of France and the repose of Europe; we<br/>
believe he is at heart desirous of promoting<br/>
both these interests, and in that case he<br/>
may well regard with acquiescence, if not<br/>
with complacency, the immense stride<br/>
which has been taken under the auspices<br/>
of Prussia towards the pacification of<br/>
Germany.—SINGAPORE DAILY NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How Ministers are Bored.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gentleman living in a house that<br/>
had previously been occupied by a popu-<br/>
lar clergyman, at Rochester, N. Y., was<br/>
so constantly bored by all sorts of trave-<br/>
ling agents and other bores, that he<br/>
posted a card on his door, addressed "to<br/>
all whom it may concern," running<br/>
thus:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Dr._____ does not live here. He has<br/>
moved away, and will not occupy this<br/>
house again till May 15, 1867. In con-<br/>
sequence of this, the present incumbent<br/>
has decided to suspend the free list. No<br/>
books, maps, pictures, stationery or re-<br/>
cipes of any kind wanted. No history<br/>
of the rebellion, whether written by<br/>
Greeley or Jeff. Davis. Have no desire<br/>
to put my name in any subscription book<br/>
in order that it may be used for influence.<br/>
Have no old clothes except those I am<br/>
now wearing, and the customs of modern<br/>
society are unfortunately such that I can-<br/>
not dispense with them. Have no cold<br/>
pieces, for we cannot get money enough<br/>
to purchase at one time more than we<br/>
can eat at one meal, consequently pro-<br/>
prietors of boarding houses will have to<br/>
look elsewhere for supplies. This house<br/>
will not be kept as a hotel and warm<br/>
meals at all hours will not be furnished.<br/>
Have not a spear of hay in the barn, nor<br/>
a single oat, and have not taken care of<br/>
horses since I drove on the canal, which<br/>
means that we have no room for horses<br/>
or donkeys either. Have no vacant rooms<br/>
or beds to spare for agents, elders, beg-<br/>
gars, sponges, leeches, professional bores,<br/>
seedy students. soldiers. sailors, negroes,<br/>
freemen's, aid society agents, rebels or<br/>
abolitionists, even though ministers in<br/>
neighboring towns and cities have told<br/>
them to be sure and call here. No<br/>
money to spare for any of the above in-<br/>
dividuals or enterprises which they re-<br/>
present, even though it be for the lauda-<br/>
ble object of furnishing unborn African<br/>
children with red flannel night caps and<br/>
fine-tooth combs. In a word, the minis-<br/>
ter don't live here now, and "old things<br/>
have passed away, and all are become<br/>
new."—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Another Atlantic Cable.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wonders never cease. The successful<br/>
laying of the Atlantic Cable, which is<br/>
now keeping us in hourly communication<br/>
with all parts of the Old World, has<br/>
been succeeded by what strikes us with<br/>
even more of admiration, the recovery of<br/>
the cable which was lost in mid-ocean a<br/>
year ago, and the immediate transmission<br/>
of the intelligence of its recovery to the<br/>
American shore by the way of Ireland,<br/>
through both the old and the new cables.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is an achievement of science and<br/>
skill which reflects the highest credit<br/>
upon those who have accomplished the<br/>
work. It is certainly a marvel, even in<br/>
this age of marvels, that simply by re-<br/>
taining the bearings, in latitude and<br/>
longitude, of the spot where the cable<br/>
was lost, a vessel should be able to re-<br/>
turn to it, pick it up from the bottom<br/>
of the sea at the depth of two miles, and<br/>
immediately resume communication with<br/>
the shore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One very important result of this a-<br/>
chievement is the demonstration of the<br/>
fact that the cable is uninjured by lying<br/>
in the depths of the ocean for a year. If<br/>
this was the case with the old one much<br/>
more may we depend on the permanence<br/>
of the cable, which has been prepared<br/>
with far greater care and precaution a-<br/>
gainst injury.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Generals at Work.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of our leaders is now in charge of<br/>
a machine for patent pumping; another<br/>
is building a railway through the oil<br/>
country. One of the first soldiers of the<br/>
Army of the Potomac is in the pistol<br/>
business; another keeps a retail grocery<br/>
store; while one of Sherman's most<br/>
trusted lieutenants is a claim-agent. One<br/>
major-general prints a weekly journal in<br/>
Baltimore. Some of our officers have<br/>
drifted into Congress; others are on their<br/>
way to distant courts, to represent the<br/>
honor of a nation they did so much to<br/>
sustain. These starred and belted gent-<br/>
lemen go down from the command of co-<br/>
horts, to become agents, and partners,<br/>
and dealers, perhaps, with the orderly<br/>
who stood before their tents, or the pri-<br/>
vate who held their stirrup. So with the<br/>
generals of the rebellion. The greatest<br/>
of them all is now a teacher of mathema-<br/>
tics in a university. Sherman's great<br/>
antagonists are in the express and rail-<br/>
road business. The once dreaded Beaure-<br/>
gard will sell you a ticket from New Or-<br/>
leans to Jackson; and if you want to<br/>
send a couple of hams to a friend in<br/>
Richmond, Joe Johnson, once comman-<br/>
der of great armies, will carry them for<br/>
you.—-TRIBUNE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Soul Made Visible.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every one knows that in every human<br/>
face there is an impalpable, immaterial<br/>
something, which we call “expression,”<br/>
which seems to be, as it were, “the soul<br/>
made visible.” Where minds live in the<br/>
region of pure thoughts and happy emo-<br/>
tions, the felicities and sanctities of the<br/>
inner temple shine out through the mor-<br/>
tal tenement, and play over it like lam-<br/>
bent flame. On the other hand, no man<br/>
can lead a gormandizing, sordid, or licen-<br/>
tious life and still wear a countenance<br/>
hallowed and sanctified jwith a halo of<br/>
peace and joy. Around such great manu-<br/>
facturing towns as Birmingham in Eng-<br/>
land, or Pittsburgh in this country, where<br/>
bituminous coal is used, you will find the<br/>
roses in the flowerbeds and the strawber-<br/>
ries defiled by a foul deposite from a<br/>
thousand chimneys. Thus do obscene,<br/>
profane and irreverent men scatter their<br/>
grime and stench upon the innocence<br/>
and beauty around them, but most deep-<br/>
ly and fully upon themselves.—-HORACE<br/>
MANN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-22_4_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
To be thought perfectly HAPPY pride<br/>
often makes itself perfectly MISERABLE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Conversion without conviction is no bet-<br/>
ter than conviction without conversion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Manners may exist without morals, but<br/>
MORALS never should be without MANNERS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Principle that cannot bear the heaviest<br/>
pressure of temptation is ROTTEN at the<br/>
heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every step toward Heaven is a struggle<br/>
with and victory over SELF, the WORLD,<br/>
and HELL.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who in prayer wants little or<br/>
nothing is usually the one who takes time<br/>
to pray for everything and something<br/>
more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A GENEROUS man will place the bene-<br/>
fits he confers beneath his foot—those he<br/>
receives, nearest his heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRIDE breakfasts with Plenty, dines<br/>
with Poverty, and suppes with Infamy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Why was the giant Goliath very<br/>
much astonished when David hit him<br/>
with a stone? Such a thing had never<br/>
entered his head before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A shell burst near an Irishman in<br/>
the trenches, when surveying the frag-<br/>
ments, he exclaimed, “Be jabers! them’s<br/>
the fellows to tackle yer ear!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Never trust a man for the vehem-<br/>
ence of his asservations, whose bare word<br/>
you would not trust; a knave will make<br/>
no more of swearing to a falsehood, than<br/>
of affirming it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have<br/>
received por last Mail a fine assortment<br/>
of clothes for gentlemen, as Jackets,<br/>
Waistcoats, Trousers etc. etc. fit for<br/>
the season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
