---
linkTitle: 'July 5th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 5th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 5th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 49
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, July 5th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 26.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
From our own Correspondent.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Paris, 10th May 1866.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir:—-The papers tell us that the<br/>
famous sculptor Schlesinger has just<br/>
terminated an immense statue repres-<br/>
enting universal peace, which is to be<br/>
placed in the great international Ex-<br/>
hibition. It seems to us that the time<br/>
is ill chosen for such a monument.<br/>
One of the witty papers says apropos<br/>
of Schlesinger's work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Le sculpteur propose
Bismarck dispose.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The latest telegrams bring us the<br/>
news of new armaments; every body<br/>
however is begging some body else to<br/>
disarm. Austria begs Prussia to disarm,<br/>
and the consequence of the request is<br/>
that Bismarck orders 5000 of the Land-<br/>
wehr to keep a sharp look out on the<br/>
Saxon frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Austrian general Benedik has<br/>
taken the command of the troops in<br/>
Bohemia, and Prince Albrecht is in<br/>
Verona and the Quadrilateral is being<br/>
literally choked with cannon. The<br/>
Italian peninsula resembles one great<br/>
camp, and from the straits of Messina<br/>
to the Alps we hear but one cry;—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
War to the Knife.—-Garibaldi<br/>
has left Caprera. The Venetian chambers<br/>
have authorized Victor Emmanuel to<br/>
take dictatorial power, and volunteers<br/>
are swarming from all parts to enlist.<br/>
Prince Napoleon is at Florence, and<br/>
now there appears no doubt but that<br/>
a secret treaty really exists between<br/>
Italy and Prussia.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How cannot is be otherwise, for how<br/>
could Italy whose coffers are quite<br/>
empty be making such military pre-<br/>
parations, unless somebody were be-<br/>
hind the scenes with a bag full of<br/>
money? However, this can hardly lead<br/>
us to believe in the new firm of,—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bismarck, Garibaldi and Co.—-<br/>
Interest makes strange bedfellows.—<br/>
Bismarck the representative pour Ex-<br/>
cellence of despotism in partnership<br/>
with Victor Emmanuel the represen-<br/>
tative of the principles of nationalities.<br/>
Austria which sold the duchy of<br/>
Lauenbourg holding Venetia with an<br/>
iron hand, and mocked at Prussia for<br/>
wishing to swallow the Elbe duchies<br/>
without asking the inhabitants to<br/>
what sauce they would prefer being<br/>
eaten; it is indeed—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(A TERRIBLE MESS,)—which has<br/>
been lasting for more than a month,<br/>
with telegrams and diplomatic mes-<br/>
sages flying about Europe, but as yet<br/>
not a shot has been fired; however no<br/>
body dare lead off the dance without<br/>
the consent of the master of the Tui-<br/>
leries, who has all along remained<br/>
mum. The corps Legislatif met on Thur-<br/>
sday last and it was impossible for<br/>
Monsieur Rouher the Minister of<br/>
State to shirk the question of 'what<br/>
are you going to do?' The declarations<br/>
of Mons: Rouher were of a most<br/>
pacific nature. The policy of France,<br/>
he says, will for the present be one of<br/>
complete neutrality, and opposed to<br/>
any attack directly or indirectly on the<br/>
part of Italy against Austria. Should<br/>
Victor Emmanuel take so inconsider-<br/>
ate a step, it must be at his own risk.<br/>
The Emperor retains perfect freedom<br/>
of action. Everybody seemed satis-<br/>
fied at the intention of the government,<br/>
and Monsieur Thiers gave us a long<br/>
regmarole (with false dates, talking of<br/>
the conduct of Nelson in 1807, three<br/>
years after the death of the Hero of<br/>
Trafalgar ) advocating peace `a tout<br/>
prix. It was thought that we were all<br/>
right and were beginning to laugh at<br/>
our ridiculous fears when a killing frost<br/>
came and nipped our hopes in the<br/>
bud. The Emperor and Empress<br/>
went the day before yesterday to open<br/>
the agricultural show at Auxerre and<br/>
in a speech, in answer to an address<br/>
from the Mayor, said that he breath-<br/>
ed more freely amongst the inhabitants<br/>
of the Department of the Yonne for he<br/>
was well convinced that their attach-<br/>
ment to his house were unalloyed, and<br/>
that they like himself detested the<br/>
treaties of 1815.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The telegraphic wires brought us<br/>
the pendant of
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
L’ Empire cest la paix
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In no time, and its effect was like a<br/>
clap of thunder. Prussia again went<br/>
down with a run and Emile de Girar-<br/>
din says in an article in the “Liberti”<br/>
the speech of Auxerre is the first note<br/>
of the tune to which we shall have to<br/>
dance in Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every succeeding German paper<br/>
brings us most uncomforting news.<br/>
There is marching and counter-march-<br/>
ing in Prussia, Saxony, Austria, Bav-<br/>
aria, and Wartemberg, and even Russia<br/>
it is said is again at work at—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE FORTIFICATION OF SEBASTAPOOL.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The knowing ones maintain that<br/>
Napoleon will remain a quiet looker<br/>
on, if war breaks out, but I differ with<br/>
them. He is evidently on very good<br/>
terms with the cunning Bismarck and<br/>
the adventurous Victor Emmanuel<br/>
—-Bismarck’s journey to Biarritz some<br/>
time ago was not for the health of the<br/>
Prussian Premier: something has been<br/>
brewing for some time past. Bis-<br/>
marck would like to have the duchies,<br/>
and Napoleon would not refuse to ex-<br/>
tend his frontiers a little further, if<br/>
you don’t object, say as far as the<br/>
Rhine,-—well perhaps something might<br/>
be done.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is evident that Napoleon the<br/>
Third who never gives up an idea,<br/>
will again propose his hobby horse,—-<br/>
THE CONGRESS.-—As he will inform<br/>
Messrs. Hohenzollern and Hapsburg that<br/>
he cannot stand such turbulent neigh-<br/>
bors, and must try if they will come<br/>
to Paris and settle their little differ-<br/>
ences. The French capital is a nice<br/>
place, and there is enough to amuse<br/>
them. Who will think of refusing so<br/>
polite an invitation!—-surely neither<br/>
Prussia nor Italy as they are on too<br/>
good terms with the Tuileries, and<br/>
Austria dare not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are moreover other matters to<br/>
settle. The question of Molds-—Wal-<br/>
lachia, which has at last found a so-<br/>
vereign in Prince Karl von Hohenzol-<br/>
lern. Venetia and Rome which is a-<br/>
waiting the putting into execution of<br/>
the 15th Sept. convention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What an excellent opportunity of<br/>
leaving young Maximilian in the lurch !<br/>
England which a year ago turned a<br/>
deaf ear to the proposed Congress,<br/>
now seems to think the idea not so bad.<br/>
This is what the Sphinx of the<br/>
Tuileries is driving at—-tear to pieces<br/>
the Treaty of Vienna—-be proclaimed<br/>
THE PACIFIER OF EUROPE.—-And in-<br/>
vite the representatives of the leading<br/>
nations to come and spend a few days,<br/>
and have a look at the great ex-<br/>
hibition of 1867.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS A CONSUMMATION DEVOUTLY<br/>
TO BE WISHED.—The people of Paris<br/>
feel rather dissatisfied at the speech of<br/>
the Emperor at Auxerre, for it must be<br/>
concluded that the air of the capital<br/>
does not agree with him as he breathes<br/>
so much more freely out of it. Napo-<br/>
leon the III has not forgotten the in-<br/>
gratitude of the good people of his<br/>
capital, who have returned nothing<br/>
but anti-Napoleonic members.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF COUNT<br/>
BISMARCK.—Assassination seems to be<br/>
the order of the day, and it may truly<br/>
be said “ Uneasy sits the head that<br/>
wears a crown.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Berlin dispatches inform us that an<br/>
attempt similar to that on the life of<br/>
the Czar of Russia, was made on count<br/>
Bismarck the day before yesterday. On<br/>
his way home a madman of the name<br/>
of Bind, a son of the famous democrat<br/>
fired five pistol shots upon the premier,<br/>
—who fortunately escaped unhurt. The<br/>
would be murderer committed suicide<br/>
by cutting his throat with a sharp in-<br/>
strument.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DUELLING IN THE HOLY CITY.—<br/>
The anti-christian and abominable<br/>
practice of genteel murder called duel-<br/>
ling is decidedly on the increase. We<br/>
have this winter had several rencon-<br/>
tres in Paris and that on the most<br/>
fatile grounds, private correspondence<br/>
from Rome inform us, that the duel<br/>
between Count Reciarde and Marquis<br/>
Corta continues to be the subject of<br/>
conversation. The Pope has ordered<br/>
that both shall be punished according to<br/>
law. The papal major domain has been<br/>
named judge on the case. Count Re-<br/>
ciarde has given himself up. The se-<br/>
conds will also be arrested, young<br/>
Baron Hubner has made himself scarce<br/>
under pretence of joining his regi-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Monde Muniple writes that the<br/>
autograph score of Mozarts Zauberflöte<br/>
(the enchanted flute) has been pur-<br/>
chased for £40 by the banker Jaqués<br/>
of Berlin, who has made a present of<br/>
it to the Koniglich Bibliothek for which<br/>
the Adler Orden has been conferred<br/>
upon him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The series of balls at the Tuileries<br/>
have now closed, so there will be no<br/>
more dancing this season. These enter-<br/>
tainments have been most numerously<br/>
attended by citizens of the U. S. of<br/>
America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE SISTER OF RACHEL AND THE<br/>
OYSTER BED.—Shortly after the death<br/>
of her sister the celebrated Trogi-<br/>
dienne Rachel, Mdlle. Sarah Félix<br/>
abandoned the stage, and took to oy-<br/>
ster breeding on the shores of lower<br/>
Normandy, where she has for some years<br/>
past sucessfully directed an extensive<br/>
parc aux huîtres. However the oyster<br/>
pest by which the Caneal districts has<br/>
been attacked has so depopulated her<br/>
bed that she is now forced to make<br/>
fresh exertions to obtain a livelihood.<br/>
She has fortunately obtained permis-<br/>
sion to cultivate a fresh bed on which<br/>
she intends to try and acclimatise the<br/>
gigantic American horse-shoe-oyster,<br/>
a delicacy unknown to the European<br/>
cooks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Dion Boucicault's lastest produc-<br/>
tion, is shortly to be put on the stage<br/>
in Paris: the frequenters of our theatres<br/>
will be enabled to see an English<br/>
court of justice represented to the life,<br/>
wigs, gowns and all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Patti the delightful Italiano-Ameri-<br/>
can songstress has left us: she will<br/>
shortly appear in London. There is no<br/>
truth in the report that she was short-<br/>
ly to give her hand and heart to a Ger-<br/>
man prince now in Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the midst of this continental<br/>
confusion it is some consolation to<br/>
look at the example given us by Eng-<br/>
land, instead of me killing with the con-<br/>
cerns of her neighbours, Great Britain<br/>
is looking at home. What should we<br/>
say in France if we could show a<br/>
surplus equal to that of our neighbours<br/>
across the channel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that the surplus will be<br/>
devoted to pay off the national powers<br/>
which are allowing their funds to be<br/>
swallowed up in keeping up immense<br/>
standing armies, in reducing the taxes,<br/>
every year. The friends of enlargement of<br/>
the franchise in our country were sur-<br/>
prised that the ministry got so small<br/>
a majority as five, and we expected<br/>
to hear of the resignation of the min-<br/>
istry, but we were agreeably disappoint-<br/>
ed. The poor Molda—Wallachians are<br/>
still in hot water in their newly elect-<br/>
ed Hospodar. Prince Karl of Hohenz-<br/>
ollern has been rejected by the confer-<br/>
ence of Paris. Russia is trying her hand<br/>
again, and we hear that Sebastapool<br/>
will be rebuilt contrary to the<br/>
stipulations of 1856, and an army<br/>
will be ready at any time to invade<br/>
Turkey. The head of the Police of St.<br/>
Petersburg has found out a conspiracy<br/>
to do away with the life of the Em-<br/>
peror. Several Poles are accused of<br/>
forming a part of the same. Spain is<br/>
still in a deplorable state, on the<br/>
verge of bankruptcy, and there is no<br/>
telling where the useless war with<br/>
Chili will lead to. Reports from South<br/>
America inform us that an attack of<br/>
the Spanish fleet on Valparaiso is<br/>
hourly expected. It is however hoped<br/>
that the presence of the English and<br/>
American ships may prevent the Span-<br/>
ish admiral from coming to extreme<br/>
measures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the U. S. the executive and legis-<br/>
lative powers are always on cool terms.<br/>
The civil rights bill has passed a second<br/>
time notwithstanding the veto of Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson, who has declared the civil<br/>
war at an end, and that the Southern<br/>
States are now to enjoy all the rights of<br/>
the North. Congress, however is, not<br/>
of the same way of thinking, and mil-<br/>
itary rule is still maintained in the late<br/>
rebel states.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fenianism seems to be dying a natural<br/>
death in the States. The federal gov-<br/>
ernment is doing all it can to put a<br/>
stop to the agitation amongst the Irish<br/>
in it dominions. Stephens the leader<br/>
has, it is said, left Paris after having been<br/>
feted by many of the English haters<br/>
amongst our aristocracy, first and fore-<br/>
most is the Marquis de Brissy of Anglo-<br/>
phobic propensities.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 30TH MAY—-Twenty addi-<br/>
tional Battalion, of Italian Volunteers or-<br/>
dered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, JUNE 1ST—-Spanish fleet re-<br/>
pulsed in attempting to bombard Callao.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 2ND JUNE—-Great debate on<br/>
amendment Registration Bill. Austria<br/>
submitted question. Duchies to decision<br/>
diet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 4TH JUNE—-Cotton active and<br/>
advancing. Austria having refused to<br/>
discuss territorial changes success of<br/>
Congress rendered doubtful. Jefferson<br/>
Davis indicted for Treason.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the L. & China Express,
May 17th.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE COURT.-—Her Majesty has held a<br/>
Court, and the Prince of Wales a Levee.<br/>
The Rajah of Johore was presented and<br/>
Sir Richard McCausland, from Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.—-The Emperor’s speech at<br/>
Auxerre has, by order, been placarded in<br/>
every commune throughout the empire.<br/>
The idea of a Congress still keeps its<br/>
ground, and Paris seems to be the centre<br/>
of the negotiations going forward. A<br/>
mail-steamer from Mexico, arrived at St.<br/>
Nazaire, has brought three millions of<br/>
francs for the French Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRUSSIA AND GERMANY.-—The Prussian<br/>
armaments are pushed forward. More<br/>
diplomatic notes have passed. Prussia<br/>
has summoned Hanover to explain her<br/>
military preparations. The Federal Diet<br/>
is attempting to hold the balance between<br/>
the two great Powers, and the mobilisa-<br/>
tion of the Federal army is contemplated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Czar is also understood to be re-<br/>
monstrating with Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AUSTRIA.—-The concentration of forces<br/>
on the Prussian frontier has commenced.<br/>
The exportation of arms and corn is pro-<br/>
hibited. The people are supporting the<br/>
Government by patriotic movements. The<br/>
nobility are removing their valuables<br/>
from the districts likely to be the scene<br/>
of the war. An Imperial decree confers<br/>
immunity from capture at sea on mer-<br/>
chant vessels belonging to belligerents,<br/>
provided the latter adopt a reciprocal<br/>
course. A basis suggested by France, to<br/>
secure peace with Italy, is said to be the<br/>
demolition of the Quadrilateral fortresses<br/>
and the making Venice a free port.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.—-Prince Gortschakoff is re-<br/>
ported to have warned Prussia that the<br/>
Czar will side with Austria should the<br/>
latter be attacked, but the statement<br/>
wants confirmation. General Romanny-<br/>
sky, the successor to Tchernaieff, has de-<br/>
feated the Bokhariotes and taken a large<br/>
booty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOLLAND.—-Important amendments<br/>
have been proposed on the Culture Bill,<br/>
and if carried the Ministry must resign.<br/>
In view of the warlike preparations or-<br/>
ders have been issued to be prepared for<br/>
emergencies. The banquet to Prince<br/>
Frederick has been postponed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KINGDOM OF ITALY.—-The Govern-<br/>
ment is asserted to have declared that<br/>
the cession of Venetia must form the<br/>
basis of any peace negotiations, and that<br/>
it will wait till the 20th for the result of<br/>
diplomatic efforts. Meantime volunteers<br/>
are being enrolled ; the reserve of 1844<br/>
(that is of the youth of twenty years of<br/>
age) is incorporated with the regular<br/>
army ; the commanders-in-chief are at<br/>
the head of their corps and the fleet is<br/>
at the mouth of the Gulf of Trieste.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES.-—The<br/>
Chambers were opened on the 11th. The<br/>
Provisional Government insists on the<br/>
union of the provinces and on the coro-<br/>
nation of a foreign Prince as Hospodar.<br/>
It is said the Paris Conference has au-<br/>
thorised the Porte to the military occupa-<br/>
tion of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—-The Reconstruction<br/>
Committee have reported a Bill making<br/>
important alterations in the Constitution.<br/>
Mrs Davis has been allowed to stay at<br/>
Fortress Monroe with her husband. The<br/>
negro soldiery have been guilty of a seri-<br/>
ous riot at Memphis in which many lives<br/>
were lost. The Merchants’ National<br/>
Bank of New York has failed, and Mr.<br/>
John Ross, a broker of the same city,<br/>
has absconded, having committed for-<br/>
geries to a large amount. The Fenians,<br/>
from Eastport, have seized a British<br/>
schooner, and hoisted on her the flag of<br/>
the Irish Republic. The cholera in the<br/>
quarantine at New York has abated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COMMERCIAL.—-On the afternoon of<br/>
the 10th the City was thrown into immense<br/>
excitement by the stoppage of Overend,<br/>
Gurney & Co. A run ensued upon the<br/>
banks which fell on the Bank of England<br/>
who paid out about £4,000,000, and hav-<br/>
ing laid the matter before Government<br/>
they received authority to issue bank<br/>
notes beyond the limit allowed by the<br/>
charter. The failure of Sir Morton Peto,<br/>
the great contractor, followed ; also the<br/>
English Joint-Stock Bank, the Imperial<br/>
Mercantile Credit, the Commercial Bank,<br/>
of India ; Hallett, Ommancy, and Co.<br/>
Wakefield ; Nash, and Co., Liverpool<br/>
Bank and all other shares are much de-<br/>
pressed, and confidence returns very tar-<br/>
dily. The Bank rate of discount is at 10<br/>
per cent ; Consols, for account, 85½ ;<br/>
money, 86¾ to 87. At the meeting of the<br/>
Mercantile Bank the report was passed<br/>
with little discussion. The meeting of<br/>
the Hindostan will be held on the 24th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A meeting of the shareholders of Over-<br/>
end, Gurney, and Co. has been held, at<br/>
which a rough statement of the business<br/>
was submitted with the view of showing<br/>
that the net profits had amounted to<br/>
£230,000 per annum. No more seda-<br/>
tious statement was ever paraded. It<br/>
adds insult to injury. That with the loss<br/>
of millions the concern could net profits<br/>
of hundreds of thousands is simply ridi-<br/>
culous. We hope the shareholders may<br/>
find it true.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The suspension of the Liverpool mer-<br/>
chants and shipowners, Messrs Pernie<br/>
Brothers, and Co. has been announced.<br/>
Thus ends for the present the record of<br/>
disaster. The next few days will throw<br/>
important light on the general position<br/>
of affairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Russia, Germany, &c.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The six young Japanese sent to<br/>
Russia have arrived at St. Petersbarg<br/>
and been presented at the Asiatic De-<br/>
partment to the Minister for Foreign<br/>
Affairs. The Northern Bee says: "It<br/>
is well known that the Government of<br/>
Japan, in sending these young men to<br/>
Russia, had in view a scientific object;<br/>
the eldest of them is only eighteen years<br/>
of age, and the two youngest are only<br/>
twelve. They are to receive a Eu-<br/>
ropean education, and thus acquire<br/>
knowledge that will enable them on<br/>
their return home to introduce many<br/>
improvements and inventions hitherto<br/>
totally unknown in Japan. Other<br/>
young men have been sent to France,<br/>
England, and Holland for the same<br/>
purpose. The Japanese now at St.<br/>
Peterburg were brought over in the<br/>
Russian corvette Bogatyr, which land-<br/>
ed them at Cherbourg, whence they<br/>
came on by the railway through<br/>
France and Germany. When they<br/>
presented themselves at the Asiatic<br/>
Department, under the protection of<br/>
which they will remain during their<br/>
stay in Russia, they wore European<br/>
dresses and had their hair cut, not-<br/>
withstanding which their features bear<br/>
such a striking Asiatic type as to<br/>
cause them to be immediately recog-<br/>
nized as genuine natives of Nipon."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the last overland mail despatches<br/>
were received at Vienna, announcing<br/>
that on the 12th of March last the Im-<br/>
perial Austrian Consulate at Bangkok<br/>
was formally and officially opened<br/>
with the consent of the Siamese Gov-<br/>
erament, and before the conclusion of<br/>
any treaty. Herr Augustus Redlich<br/>
has hoisted his flag, and officiates as<br/>
the first Austrian Consul, which may<br/>
be considered a distinguished mark of<br/>
goodwill on the part of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
July 5th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
4th of July Celebration.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It gives us pleasure to notice in this<br/>
issue that the 90th anniversary of Am.<br/>
Independence was celebrated by a<br/>
portion of American residents in this<br/>
city on Wednesday, the 4th inst. at the<br/>
residence of J. M. Hood Esq., U. S.<br/>
Consul. As but a quiet and not real-<br/>
ly a public celebration of the day was<br/>
contemplated, and as the repast to<br/>
which the guests were invited was to<br/>
be only a tiffin and not a dinner, the<br/>
attendance was not as large as it other-<br/>
wise would have been. Some of our<br/>
Am. Community had previously arrang-<br/>
ed to celebrate the day, as we learned,<br/>
by a steam boat excursion to “the old<br/>
city,” and some still in other modes<br/>
according to their more personal and<br/>
independent pleasure. That any one<br/>
of the community should neglect to<br/>
remember the day with joy and some<br/>
appropriate outgushing praise we will<br/>
not believe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those of us assembled at the Ameri-<br/>
can Consulate would doubtless have<br/>
felt more of the genuine inspiration<br/>
which the 4th of July is wont to beget<br/>
in our own fatherland, could we have<br/>
heard a national salute at sunrise, and<br/>
another at midday attended by some<br/>
martial parade led by martial music<br/>
to some of our national airs, or even<br/>
the King of Siam's brass band which<br/>
we enjoyed a year ago. A Siamese<br/>
brass band, we are informed, was ap-<br/>
plied for, but was found disbanded,<br/>
and could not be called from their<br/>
distant homes in time, and that the<br/>
firing of a national salute was impos-<br/>
sible first because no guns could be<br/>
obtained for the purpose, and second<br/>
because government has not as yet per-<br/>
mitted any representative of a foreign<br/>
nation to fire a salute. But small as<br/>
was the gathering and quiet as were<br/>
the proceedings of this celebration, it<br/>
was remarkable that with the absence<br/>
of so much with which we had been<br/>
accustomed to take inspiration at home<br/>
there was so much of the genuine<br/>
spirit of 1776 developed. Indeed we<br/>
fancy that that spirit was quickened<br/>
into new and even more vigorous life<br/>
in the bosoms of the young and middle<br/>
aged and old Americans that were<br/>
present, than in most Americans at the<br/>
commencement of our country's In-<br/>
dependence, for the soul stirring e-<br/>
vents of the ever memorable year 1865<br/>
were as fresh as but of yesterday in<br/>
every mind, demonstrating by a<br/>
thousand irresistible arguments the<br/>
blessings of Independence from kingly<br/>
and imperial sway, the unparralled<br/>
strength of a people's government,<br/>
and the glorious destiny which the<br/>
King of kings has in all probability<br/>
bequeathed to us as a nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American Consulate at which<br/>
the Consul resides was appropriately<br/>
decorated for the occasion. Hundreds<br/>
of flags were floating in the gentle<br/>
breeze. The front verandah and the<br/>
steps leading to it were neatly arrayed<br/>
with green bushes, emblems of joy<br/>
and praise. The reception room was<br/>
charmingly draped with the ensigns<br/>
of various nations, and smiled with joy<br/>
by means of the bouquets that were<br/>
tastefully arranged among them. The<br/>
dining hall fired our hearts with the<br/>
love of country by the banner display-<br/>
ed in the farther end on which were<br/>
inscribed in large letters—LIBERTY AND<br/>
UNION. Those three words, though si-<br/>
lent to the outward ear, were full of the<br/>
most thrilling eloquence to our inward<br/>
soul, and they discoursed to us with<br/>
even more power than a dozen Daniel<br/>
Websters united could have done be-<br/>
cause that great man and his illustri-<br/>
ous compeers died before our late<br/>
baptism in blood and fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having been seated a few minutes<br/>
in the reception room, Mr. Hood arose<br/>
and gave his guests a very hearty re-<br/>
ception which he followed with a neat<br/>
and appropriate address. We here give<br/>
entire what he said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ADDRESS
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a gratification to meet so large<br/>
a number of American citizens in this<br/>
beautiful portion of the eastern world,<br/>
on this our nation's festal day; and as<br/>
the representative of that great na-<br/>
tion, I bid you a hearty welcome to<br/>
my home, and entertainment, believ-<br/>
ing, as I do, that the interchange of<br/>
friendly greetings upon this auspicious<br/>
occasion, will conduce to our future<br/>
welfare, and happiness. Again I bid<br/>
you welcome.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permit me at this time to remark<br/>
that of all the memorable days in<br/>
the history of our beloved country,<br/>
this our natal day towers above<br/>
them in sublimity of thought and<br/>
grand conceptions, and calls forth our<br/>
adoration for our self-sacrificing, and<br/>
noble minded progenitors, who freely<br/>
gave their lives, and fortunes, that a<br/>
nation of freeman might live and bless<br/>
the world with the sublime idea, that<br/>
man, was endowed by his creator, with<br/>
self governing faculties, and that the<br/>
Divine right of kings, to rule the world,<br/>
has from the birth of our nation, been<br/>
fading from the minds of the people<br/>
everywhere—-and now but few crown-<br/>
ed heads in the western world have<br/>
any other claim to rule his brother man,<br/>
than that which the people have seen<br/>
it expedient to bestow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late struggle in our beloved<br/>
country, has demonstrated to the world<br/>
the strength and endurance of a free<br/>
people, and their capacity for self-gov-<br/>
ernment. These self-evident truths,<br/>
encourage us onward in the noble<br/>
work of disseminating American ideas,<br/>
American literature, and American man-<br/>
ners, and customs. This will tend to<br/>
a better understanding of us as a na-<br/>
tion in foreign lands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
None can so well estimate how bles-<br/>
sed is the country of our nativity, as<br/>
the citizens of the United States, who<br/>
travel abroad and compare the institu-<br/>
tions of his home, with those he meets<br/>
with; when he sees the misery and deg-<br/>
radation of the laboring classes, then<br/>
he may turn his mind to his own, his<br/>
native land, and exclaim how blessed<br/>
are we as a nation, where every man<br/>
feels that he is a part of the govern-<br/>
ment, and has a voice in making its<br/>
laws. And I pray an all-wise provi-<br/>
dence, to watch over, and protect us,<br/>
as a nation, for all future time. And<br/>
that our free institutions, may contin-<br/>
ue to bless the world at large.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the language of the Immortal<br/>
Webster let us proclaim, LIBERTY AND<br/>
UNION, ONE AND INSEPARABLE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the address Young America<br/>
consisting of a about a dozen American<br/>
children under the lead of Miss F.<br/>
Dean their elder at the Melodian sang<br/>
Hail Columbia to the words.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Hail Columbia! happy land!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Hail ye heroes heaven born band;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}&c{{< news/indent1 >}}&c{{< news/indent1 >}}&c{{< news/indent1 >}}&c{{< news/indent1 >}}&c{{< news/indent1 >}}&c<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The next move was for each gentle-<br/>
man to conduct a lady to the tiffin<br/>
tables in the dining hall. The tables<br/>
were bountifully furnished with all<br/>
that a man can with any propriety<br/>
desire for a midday lunch.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a little remarkable that we<br/>
had no kind of drink presented to us<br/>
that could become a mocker or con-<br/>
vert any one of us to raging and folly.<br/>
Having finished the tiffin the Con-<br/>
sul announced that it was then in or-<br/>
der to give toasts, saying that having<br/>
no wine they could be drank quite<br/>
appropriately with the pure water of<br/>
life from heaven. A toast was promised<br/>
by Dr. B. provided he could have Dr.<br/>
D. sustain it by one of his own happy<br/>
speeches. The latter gentleman giv-<br/>
ing, as was thought, a tacit consent,<br/>
a sentiment was offered. It was this—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liberty and Union and equality<br/>
for all men of our country before<br/>
the law of the land as all are equal<br/>
before the law of God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The explanation of the meaning of<br/>
the word Equality was called for by<br/>
the Consul, which called out a defini-<br/>
tion substantially—-that all men without<br/>
respect to rank, caste, or color, are by<br/>
the Constitution of the U. S. equally<br/>
entitled to manhood, citizenship, and<br/>
personal protection in all their land-<br/>
able pursuits of happiness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With this explanation Dr. D. arose<br/>
and gave us an elaborate and interest-<br/>
ing extempore speech well sustaining<br/>
the sentiments of the toast. He dwelt<br/>
upon the idea of equality and stated<br/>
with great clearness that our Am. Con-<br/>
stitution does hold all classes of A-<br/>
merican subjects equal before the law—<br/>
be they German, or Irishmen, or Afri-<br/>
cans, or the pure white native born<br/>
Americans, that every class of men is<br/>
equally entitled to protection by the<br/>
laws of the land—-having equal rights<br/>
to the influence of their votes in the<br/>
election of their own rulers, and that<br/>
it is an outrage of common sense<br/>
as well as of common justice to say or<br/>
think that color should ever have any<br/>
thing to do in forming an estimate of<br/>
man's equality before the laws of our<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But while holding to these views, he<br/>
said he must advocate that there are<br/>
certain limitations of the privileges of<br/>
suffrage to individuals in every class,<br/>
not more so in regard to the blacks<br/>
than of the whites, which has always<br/>
obtained in our government and which<br/>
he hoped ever would. He alluded to<br/>
many among white men as well as a-<br/>
mong black men, who were as yet<br/>
quite disqualified for the freedom of<br/>
the elective franchise because of their<br/>
ignorance. All such he would have<br/>
held back from the ballot box until<br/>
they shall have qualified themselves for<br/>
suffrage by being able to read and<br/>
write, and thus attain to some respon-<br/>
sible status in the land. The speaker<br/>
could not accord with many leaders of<br/>
the Republican party who seemed bent<br/>
upon universal and indiscriminate suf-<br/>
frage either for white men or black.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dr. then proceeded to speak of<br/>
Prest. Johnson and his policy of Re-<br/>
construction. He gave the Prest. a<br/>
high and just eulogium, showing that<br/>
he had been every inch a man of<br/>
most extraordinary symmetry from<br/>
his youth to the Presidential chair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the speaker said up to this point<br/>
seemed to meet the full accord of all his<br/>
hearers. But when he came to extol<br/>
the restoration of the Southern States<br/>
to their former status in the govern-<br/>
ment of our country, and advocate<br/>
that such restoration was their just<br/>
due and that it was purely fidelity to<br/>
the Constitution and love of the Un-<br/>
ion which had led the Prest. to a-<br/>
dopt the policy he had and to stand so<br/>
firmly to his purpose against the<br/>
mighty power of Congress and in the<br/>
face of the most unjust vitoperations<br/>
and obloquy, then there appeared a<br/>
marked division in the assembly.<br/>
The same two parties—the President's<br/>
party and the Congress party, that<br/>
now figure at home stoodforth in<br/>
bold relief, but as we are happy<br/>
to report, without a hiss or even a<br/>
word or look of disrespect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. B. then arose and expressed<br/>
much pleasure to find as he did, that the<br/>
views of his "twin brother" and his own<br/>
on the great question of political equal-<br/>
ity were so nearly in harmony, and<br/>
stated briefly the reasons why Congress<br/>
could not adopt Mr. Johnson's policy<br/>
of reconstruction, and why he himself<br/>
must stand by Congress in this vital<br/>
question. He said Congress had obtain-<br/>
ed the most reliable information from al-<br/>
most all parts of the South, showing<br/>
that the spirit of the rebellion and<br/>
Yankee-hate was far from being dead,<br/>
or even dying in the bosoms of the<br/>
50,000 Southern political leaders, and<br/>
that to allow them to send representa-<br/>
tives into Congress now, would produce<br/>
unending discord in the very centre and<br/>
heart of our country, and in all proba-<br/>
bility soon begot another civil war. He<br/>
stated the astounding fact that the<br/>
present Mayor of Mobile had recently<br/>
in a public assembly toasted Jefferson<br/>
Davis, that arch leader of the rebellion<br/>
as being a patriot worthy of the high-<br/>
est praise and everlasting veneration<br/>
by all the South, that the toast express-<br/>
ed the unanimous feelings of the great<br/>
assembly he was addressing, and that<br/>
that was very probably the sentiment<br/>
of a large majority of the leaders of<br/>
Southern politicians. If such, he asked,<br/>
be the spirit of the South, how sad,<br/>
how ruinous, would it be to have those<br/>
states restored to power in Congress!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here the speaking ended: but the<br/>
toast was not drank nor a vote taken<br/>
to try the strength of the two par-<br/>
ties, as neither were needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The party then rising from table at<br/>
the lead of the Consul, returned to the<br/>
reception room, when young America<br/>
sang the "Star spangled banner" to<br/>
the words usually set to it. This was<br/>
followed by the good old Republican<br/>
and time revered tune "Yankee doo-<br/>
dle" to truthful and jovial words<br/>
showing the origin of the tune, and<br/>
the spirit that inspired it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The children carried all the parts<br/>
and performed it admirably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a due pause the sweet singers<br/>
sang for their closing piece a touching<br/>
song on The grave of Washington.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having carried out all the pro-<br/>
gramme which the Consul and his la-<br/>
dy had designed for the occasion, the<br/>
heavens then stooped, as if in lively<br/>
sympathy with us, and gave us a grand<br/>
out-pouring of wind and rain, those<br/>
vitalizing and fructifying elements of<br/>
all national prosperity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus ended our celebration much<br/>
to the gratification of all that were<br/>
present, with thankfulness to our Con-<br/>
sul and his good lady for the enter-<br/>
tainment they had given us, and grate-<br/>
ful regards to all others who volun-<br/>
teered their aid in preparing it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petohaburee.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Burron,—In your account of<br/>
your late visit to our place you made<br/>
a very complimentary and eloquent<br/>
allusion to our Mission compound.<br/>
We think ourselves that it is a pleas-<br/>
ant spot, and surely it never looked<br/>
so lovely in our eyes as it did yester-<br/>
day morning. The tall and ever grace-<br/>
ful clusters of the bamboo in the ad-<br/>
joining temple grounds, which protect<br/>
us from the rays of the morning sun—<br/>
the two tamarind trees in front, the<br/>
row of cocoanuts on the opposite side<br/>
all serving as a partial natural bound-<br/>
ary—a cove in the bosom of which<br/>
our houses are situated and even the<br/>
Cape Jesamins and smaller shrub-<br/>
berry and flowers had all put on their<br/>
loveliest hue. The charm was pro-<br/>
bably not so much in the place itself,<br/>
which was essentially just as we had<br/>
seen it for weeks, nor was it altogether<br/>
to be attributed to the peculiar still-<br/>
ness and beauty of the Sabbath morn-<br/>
ing, which has followed us with its<br/>
hallowed associations from childhood,<br/>
and even in this land of idols where<br/>
there are no Sabbaths, seems still to<br/>
distinguish it from the other days of<br/>
the week; I suppose it was principal-<br/>
ly in our own subjective feelings, sug-<br/>
gested by the contrast of what had<br/>
well nigh become during the previous<br/>
night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About nine o’clock on Saturday<br/>
night the alarm of fire was given on<br/>
the place. We soon found that it pro-<br/>
ceeded from that thick cluster of Siam-<br/>
ese houses, to the west about thirty<br/>
paces from our enclosure, and about<br/>
the same distance from the river. The<br/>
first sight that we saw of it forced on<br/>
our minds the fearful danger to which<br/>
we were exposed. Anxious to see its<br/>
real position, and following our first<br/>
instinct, we hastened out to the place<br/>
and found that it had originated in a<br/>
vacant house built by the Roman Ca-<br/>
tholics, and used by them as a place of<br/>
worship during the visits of the priests<br/>
to this place. It had a brick founda-<br/>
tion about five feet high with the walls<br/>
of bamboo and the roof of attap. On-<br/>
ly a few feet from it, and still nearer to<br/>
our place was another vacant house<br/>
owned by Tow Kee Yee. When we<br/>
reached the spot the flames had just<br/>
caught on the roof of this second house.<br/>
About six feet from the first roof or<br/>
chapel was a large old shed, and about<br/>
ten feet from the second and still near-<br/>
er our lot was a Siamese granary co-<br/>
vered with attap, and from that was a<br/>
continuous row of houses joined to-<br/>
gether with scarcely any intervening<br/>
space up to our mission fence. About<br/>
the same distance on the side towards<br/>
the river there commenced another<br/>
series of houses owned by another<br/>
Chinese Tan Kee, extending almost<br/>
continuously out to the river and end-<br/>
ing again at the house of the Siamese<br/>
officer just adjoining the mission lot.<br/>
It was in that narrow compass of a-<br/>
bout ten feet on each side that the<br/>
two houses on fire were situated, pass-<br/>
ing beyond the bounds of which in ei-<br/>
ther of those two directions it would<br/>
have been almost impossible to have<br/>
prevented a universal conflagration of<br/>
the whole village around us, and also<br/>
the most if not the whole of the mis-<br/>
sion property too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great many natives had assembled<br/>
when we reached there, enough to ex-<br/>
tinguish the fire in a short time had<br/>
one half of them laid hold and brought<br/>
a bucket of water or assisted in tear-<br/>
ing down the buildings. But the per-<br/>
fect indifference with which they ga-<br/>
zed on the scene is almost incredible.<br/>
When upbraided for their indifference<br/>
a vacant stare was all that they gave.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I found that my associate had just<br/>
reached the place, and was laying hold<br/>
himself and urging on the indifferent<br/>
spectators. The wind, though slight,<br/>
was just in the direction to carry the<br/>
sparks and burning attap over some<br/>
place and the intervening houses. So<br/>
leaving Mr. McFarland there I has-<br/>
tened back to see what was best to be<br/>
done to preserve our own premises. I<br/>
had taken the precaution at the begin-<br/>
ning of the last dry season to have<br/>
several long ladders made, little think-<br/>
ing that we would have to use them<br/>
so soon. We soon arranged the few<br/>
men on our side of the lot to the best<br/>
apparent advantage, placing a couple on<br/>
our own attap roofed house to extin-<br/>
guish the falling sparks, and the teach-<br/>
er and washerman, on the workman's<br/>
and watchman's houses for the same<br/>
purpose. Mr. McFarland's house had<br/>
recently been covered with tiles and<br/>
was in less danger; but the houses oc-<br/>
cupied by his servants were adjoining<br/>
the fence on the side of the fire, and<br/>
were in the greatest danger of all and<br/>
must inevitably be burned if the fire<br/>
extended any further. So having<br/>
made the best preparations under the<br/>
circumstances for the defence of my<br/>
own house, I stood out in his back<br/>
lot where I could assist in wetting the<br/>
roofs off from those most in danger, and<br/>
watch the progress of the fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile the ladies had begun in<br/>
good earnest to remove the effects<br/>
from the house, one of them taking the<br/>
children and placing them with the<br/>
nurse under the large tamarind tree<br/>
in front, and another, forgetting her<br/>
accustomed weakness, dragged out a<br/>
large trunk that required a couple of<br/>
men to bring back. A large pile of<br/>
clothing and other articles were thus<br/>
stored out in the front wall. In this,<br/>
under the circumstances, they acted<br/>
wisely, though word was soon sent that<br/>
the fire was subsiding and would not<br/>
extend further, and the whole work of<br/>
demolishing the attap roofs and re-<br/>
moving the articles from the house<br/>
was stopped. You are better able to<br/>
imagine our feelings of gratitude and<br/>
joy than I can describe them, when we<br/>
felt that all danger was surely over.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We could but admire the special<br/>
providence of God in preventing such<br/>
an occurrence during the dry season,<br/>
when the whole settlement would pro-<br/>
bably have been swept away. Provi-<br/>
dentially, too, that very afternoon there<br/>
had been a slight sprinkle of rain,<br/>
enough to prevent the rapid extension<br/>
of the fire in the houses that had<br/>
caught and also its easy ignition in<br/>
the others. A green tree between the<br/>
Siamese granary and the Tow Kee's<br/>
house was also of much service in pro-<br/>
tecting it. In all probability the fire<br/>
was the work of an incendiary, and it is<br/>
currently believed that it was done by<br/>
those to whom the houses and pro-<br/>
perty are committed by the Tow<br/>
Kee when he is away. Report says<br/>
that they had gambled and lost and<br/>
pawned away most of the property and<br/>
had then set fire to the premises.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first part of the report is doubt-<br/>
less true, but as there is no evidence<br/>
as to their agency in the fire except<br/>
common suspicion founded on the<br/>
facts stated, nothing will probably be<br/>
done with them. We understand that<br/>
one of the Siamese officers came down<br/>
next morning to make inquiries about<br/>
the origin of the fire and here the mat-<br/>
ter will end. We fear it is only one<br/>
of the many instances in which the<br/>
gross crimes will be allowed to pass<br/>
unpunished as we have no longer the<br/>
strong hand of our worthy and tried<br/>
friend the Lieutenant Governor to be a<br/>
terror to evil doers and bring offenders<br/>
to punishment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Your's truly,
D. M.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd July, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P. S. A sudden rise in the river last<br/>
week almost to the highest water mark<br/>
has set the farmers to work again. It<br/>
has subsided two feet or more, but not<br/>
still sufficient water was retained in ma-<br/>
ny of the fields to enable the farmers<br/>
to begin their operations.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Married.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Married at the U. S. Consulate on<br/>
Thursday the 5th inst, Captain John<br/>
Smith a citizen of the U. States, to<br/>
Miss Mab of this city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Died on July 3th at the Bangkok<br/>
Hotel, the proprietor, William Henry<br/>
Domer, of dysentery after an illness of<br/>
four weeks. The deceased was about 28<br/>
years of age and a native of Oxford,<br/>
England, where his parents, brothers<br/>
and sisters are still living. His funeral<br/>
took place on the day of his death. The services<br/>
were conducted by Rev. W. Doun D. V.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent at Singapore in-<br/>
forms us, that an Agent of the French<br/>
Mail Line while on a visit to Cambo-<br/>
dia was murdered by a body of Cam-<br/>
bodians, and our friend fears this mat-<br/>
ter will cause His Cambodian Majesty<br/>
some trouble.—-Cow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from Penang that the Mag-<br/>
istrate of that place refused to enter<br/>
into a case of desertion from a Siamese<br/>
vessel because there exists no treaty<br/>
between Siam and England, to appre-<br/>
hend deserters. Is such a deficiency<br/>
to last long?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The case alluded to is this—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A schooner from Tocopah, (a Pro-<br/>
vince of Siam) the property of the Ra-<br/>
jah of that place, arrived at Penang<br/>
where the Captain advanced his crew<br/>
3 months wages. After working some<br/>
3 days the Sarang and one man de-<br/>
serted, and as the schooner could not<br/>
be delayed, a warrant for their appre-<br/>
hension was left with the Siamese Con-<br/>
sul, who succeeded, with the assistance<br/>
of the Police, in capturing them. When<br/>
brought before the Magistrate he re-<br/>
fused to entertain the case for the rea-<br/>
son stated above.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Without such a treaty the owners of<br/>
Siamese vessels trading to the Straits<br/>
are likely to be ruined, more especially<br/>
when it becomes universally known<br/>
among the sailors, that there is no law<br/>
to punish them for desertion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is to be hoped the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment will take this weighty matter<br/>
into their serious and early consider-<br/>
ation. {{< news/indent4 >}} Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Our readers will be delighted to<br/>
learn from our advertising columns,<br/>
that the Sanitarinm at Anghin built by<br/>
H. E. the Prime Minister is completed<br/>
and furnished. Intending visitors will<br/>
have to provide themselves with plates,<br/>
dishes, knives, forks and cooking uten-<br/>
sils. The house is roomy, cool and<br/>
pleasantly situated. A more suitable<br/>
residence and position for invalids<br/>
could not be found on that coast. In<br/>
short to be appreciated it only requires<br/>
a visit. {{< news/indent4 >}} Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THREE CHINESE converts to Chris-<br/>
tianity were baptised last Sabbath by<br/>
Dr. Dean. They assembled with the<br/>
church and a company of spectators, on<br/>
the banks of the river under the shade<br/>
of a grove of bamboo and plantain trees,<br/>
when the third chapter of Matthew<br/>
was read, giving an account of the<br/>
baptism of Jesus by John in the river<br/>
Jordan. Then the Chinese deacon of-<br/>
fered prayer, and the pastor led the<br/>
converts one by one down into the<br/>
river, and baptised them in the name<br/>
of the Father, and of the Son, and of<br/>
the Holy Ghost, the candidates each<br/>
responding with a hearty Amen—-as<br/>
they rose from the water. The ser-<br/>
vices closed with prayer and the bene-<br/>
diction. On the same day these bap-<br/>
tised disciples were received into the<br/>
church by the right-hand of fellow-<br/>
ship and took their seats at the Lord's<br/>
table. This church, organized twen-<br/>
ty nine years ago, under the charge<br/>
of its present pastor, has had a history<br/>
of mingled trial and prosperity, which<br/>
has developed bright examples of<br/>
Christianity redeemed from heathenism.<br/>
has proved the mother of the churches<br/>
Hongkong and Swatow, having the<br/>
same faith and a common language,<br/>
and some of its former members are<br/>
still living in their native district in<br/>
China, as living epistles of Christ,<br/>
known and read of all men. The joy<br/>
of the church on receiving the last<br/>
addition to their number yesterday,<br/>
is chastened by the necessity of<br/>
withdrawing the hand of fellowship<br/>
from one of its former members, who<br/>
had forfeited his claim to their con-<br/>
fidence by unchristian language and<br/>
deportment. {{< news/indent4 >}} Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
REGATTA.—-Held at Paknam, on<br/>
Thursday the 28th ulto.—-The follow-<br/>
ing & Yachts were allowed to start viz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 CAPT. BUNN'S Laura.<br/>
2 PRINCE GEORGE'S Sons Unknown.<br/>
3 MR. BARLOW'S Mosquito.<br/>
4 MR. CARTER'S Plunger, (center board)<br/>
5 MR. SCOTT'S Foam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ms. WESTERFIELD'S Helena, was not<br/>
allowed to start with the others and<br/>
was quietly withdrawn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They started at ¼ to 12 o'clock with<br/>
a light S. W. breeze and ebb tide, and<br/>
rounded in the above-named order. The<br/>
first boat with a red flag stationed near-<br/>
ly opposite the Paknam forts. Soon<br/>
after passing the canoe No. 4 took the<br/>
lead and kept it all alone, followed by<br/>
the others in beating out to the Sun-<br/>
ken Junks, where a second boat with<br/>
a red flag was stationed and which<br/>
was rounded by No. 4 at ¼ past one<br/>
o'clock and followed by No. 1 at ten<br/>
minutes later. No. 2 and 3 went round<br/>
this boat fifteen minutes afterwards<br/>
both nearly at the same time. Just<br/>
then Yacht No. 5 being about 1 ¼ miles<br/>
astern capsized (the real cause I have<br/>
not ascertained) and the four Europeans<br/>
and six Malays got unexpectedly a<br/>
cold bath. The yacht filled very quick-<br/>
ly and all hands clung to the masts.<br/>
H. B. M. Consul yacht Kestrel, and<br/>
the S. S. Morning Star, both with<br/>
guests on board to witness the regatta<br/>
were luckily not far from the sunken<br/>
boom, and went with all haste to the<br/>
assistance of those in the water. The<br/>
Kestrel pulled up two Europeans and<br/>
the Morning Star, the others two<br/>
Europeans and the six Malays. The<br/>
other four yachts were still continuing<br/>
their course, and No. 4 keeping the<br/>
lead, rounded the second time the first<br/>
boat opposite the Paknam forts fol-<br/>
lowed by No. 1, 2 and 3. By this<br/>
time the tide had changed and a hea-<br/>
vy squall was coming and No. 2 and 3<br/>
withdrew from the race, the ballast of<br/>
the latter having shifted the yacht was<br/>
run for safety on a bank; but by<br/>
doing so the rudder was lost. No. 1<br/>
and 4 then gave the race up on ac-<br/>
count of the lateness in the day and<br/>
the threatening weather with a con-<br/>
trary tide. The Foam, was taken to<br/>
Paknam the same evening, the wa-<br/>
ter bailed out, and afterwards towed<br/>
to town by a little steamer. On the<br/>
whole the day was fine and pleasant.<br/>
Besides a number of houseboats with<br/>
residents, there was the S. S. Morn-<br/>
ing Star, chartered for the occasion<br/>
with a number of ladies and gentle-<br/>
men H. B. M. U's. yacht Kestrel, with<br/>
some friends of the owner. Mr. Wes-<br/>
terfield's yacht Helena, with some of<br/>
his friends. The steamer and the<br/>
Kestrel, followed the racing yachts all<br/>
the distance, but the Helena, having<br/>
grounded on a bank opposite the start-<br/>
ing place very shortly after the regatta<br/>
commenced, was thereby prevented<br/>
from following the racing yachts to<br/>
the Sunken Junks. Between 3 and 4<br/>
o'clock the steamer and other boats all<br/>
returned to Bangkok. {{< news/indent2 >}} Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.—-Our readers<br/>
will with us rejoice in the announce-<br/>
ment among our local items of to day's<br/>
issue that we have now in Siam a real<br/>
and thorough Sanitarium just com-<br/>
pleted through the most gracious<br/>
grants of His MAJESTY THE KING of<br/>
Siam, and His Majesty's government<br/>
under the superintendence of His Ex-<br/>
cellency the Premier Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home. It is delightfully situated at<br/>
Anghin a small town on the eastern<br/>
gulf-coast 6 miles S. W. of Banplasoi<br/>
and about 60 miles from Bangkok. A<br/>
better location for a Sanitarium, could<br/>
not, probably, be found in this country<br/>
or any other within the tropics, en-<br/>
joying as it does an elevation above<br/>
the level of the sea from 50 to 60<br/>
feet, being neither too high nor to<br/>
low to be ever too damp, and with the<br/>
most perfect freedom of air in both<br/>
monsoons—-the one from the N. E.<br/>
blowing across a small bay—-the other<br/>
from the S. W. blowing directly up<br/>
the gulf. Not only the pure air com-<br/>
ing over the briny deep, but also the<br/>
charming music of the ocean waves<br/>
made by their dashing on the rock-<br/>
bound point of Anghin, and her long<br/>
line of sea beach leading from it<br/>
Southward on which invalids may<br/>
walk evening and morning and amuse<br/>
themselves in shell-hunting and other-<br/>
wise, must, we think, conspire to cheer<br/>
their spirits and promote restoration to<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Sanitarium is of ready and<br/>
pleasant access from Bangkok. It<br/>
may be reached by a sailing boat usu-<br/>
ally within twelve hours and by row-<br/>
ing via the canal to Bangkaboon river,<br/>
thence to Bangplasoi and thence across<br/>
a small bay 6 miles in less than 40<br/>
hours.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This Sanitarium is another mark of<br/>
progress in Siam, and it is to us a very<br/>
agreeable one, praise great is due to His<br/>
Majesty and to his Majesty's Premier for<br/>
the accomplishment of it. For further<br/>
particulars see the advertisement head-<br/>
ed Anghin Sanitarium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. Aubaret, Consul for the French<br/>
Government, arrived on the 30th ulto. having been<br/>
brought by H. I. M.'s Ship-of-war Cos-<br/>
[...], and carrying ten<br/>
guns, from Saigon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that M. Aubaret had an<br/>
audience of the Emperor, Napoleon<br/>
III "who gave him a sword as a pre-<br/>
sent from himself to the King of Siam,<br/>
and a dagger from the Prince Impe-<br/>
rial for the King's son."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Cosmao, brought a European<br/>
Mail with dates of papers from Lon-<br/>
don to the 17th May from Hongkong<br/>
to 13th June and from Singapore 14th<br/>
January. The latest Telegram from<br/>
the scene of the Impending war is to<br/>
the 4th of June, from which there<br/>
would seem but little hope of averting<br/>
the terrible catastrophe of a general<br/>
European war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As His Majesty the king is not<br/>
pleased with the mention we made in<br/>
our last issue of the joke he is said<br/>
to have passed on the Pope concern-<br/>
ing keeping the keys of the kingdom<br/>
of heaven, we beg to assure him that<br/>
no European of common sense will<br/>
understand from our remarks that His<br/>
Majesty ever spake or wrote that for<br/>
the press, nor that His Majesty could<br/>
have seriously intended to cast any<br/>
dishonour on the Pope even if that keen<br/>
repartee did drop from his lips. A good<br/>
Roman Catholic ruler, even in France<br/>
could have uttered the same jokingly<br/>
as did His Majesty, and not fear con-<br/>
demnation from any quarter. And<br/>
shall the king of Siam sitting as he<br/>
does on his own independent throne,<br/>
and that founded on Buddhism, sur-<br/>
rounded, though he be, by many of<br/>
the representatives of the great West-<br/>
ern Powers have less freedom in this<br/>
regard! If so where is his glory!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Progress of Loyal Feeling.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
New York Observer, April 19TH 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We watch, with anxiety, the manifest-<br/>
ations of Southern feeling toward the<br/>
Government of the United States. It is<br/>
well known to all the readers of this pa-<br/>
per that we have strenuously urged the<br/>
speediest possible restoration of the in-<br/>
surgent States to their old STATUS in the<br/>
Union, and that we desire the return of<br/>
peace in all relations, civil, social and ec-<br/>
clesiastical. It will surprise some to know<br/>
that we have pursued this course, while<br/>
many at the South are writing to us that<br/>
we are going too fast, that the state of<br/>
feeling does not justify immediate restor-<br/>
ation, that so much of the war-spirit still<br/>
prevails, that the people cannot send<br/>
Union men to Congress. But we have<br/>
felt that kindness was the most effectual<br/>
means of conciliation, and that the war<br/>
had forever settled the question of seces-<br/>
sion and nationality. We have been<br/>
willing to trust the South, and to aid in<br/>
building up her waste places, and to res-<br/>
tore the harmony of the republic with<br/>
the least possible delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we are pained by the necessity of<br/>
saying that the information we get from<br/>
the South does not encourage us to labor<br/>
in this direction. Particularly is the in-<br/>
telligence unfavorable in regard to the<br/>
ministers of the South. A pastor in one<br/>
of the Southern States writes as follows:<br/>
"It is a fact that the ministers of the<br/>
Gospel in the South, who have generally<br/>
returned to their parishes, are almost<br/>
without exception bitterly opposed to the<br/>
Government, and are exerting all their<br/>
influence against loyalty and reconstruc-<br/>
tion. It is the opinion of candid loyal<br/>
men, that they are exerting a stronger<br/>
influence in that direction than any other<br/>
class of men in the South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"These ministers teach their people<br/>
not to listen to any propositions for aid<br/>
in supplying preaching for the destitute:<br/>
or organizing and furnishing Sunday<br/>
schools, unless these funds be put into<br/>
the hands of true Southern men, go for<br/>
their support and to advance their prin-<br/>
ciples.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A Christian gentleman, who has re-<br/>
cently visited every town in nine counties<br/>
in this State, on business, and made this<br/>
a special subject of inquiry, says it was<br/>
the testimony of the best men everywhere<br/>
that no Northern missionary or S. S.<br/>
agent would be safe from personal viol-<br/>
ence. The spirit is bitter, very bitter,<br/>
and so far as I can see, grows worse."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And we have MANY other letters to the<br/>
same purport. To the same effect is the<br/>
following item in the secular newspapers:<br/>
At a celebration in Mobile, on the 10th,<br/>
Mayor Withers being called on for a<br/>
sentiment, said: "I rise, Mr. Chairman,<br/>
to propose a sentiment which, I think<br/>
should not be omitted on any occasion of<br/>
this kind. I mean no treason, nor do I<br/>
mean to revive any memories of the past<br/>
which ought to be dead and buried. I<br/>
simply offer the health of a distinguish-<br/>
ed gentleman. I give you, therefore, sir:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"President Davis, soldier, statesman,<br/>
patriot, prisoner. Our tongues may be<br/>
mute, but our hearts are with him."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such a sentiment given by the mayor<br/>
of a city, at a public celebration, and of<br/>
course approved by the people, is a suff-<br/>
iciently explicit declaration of the amount<br/>
of loyalty prevailing. Here is an act of<br/>
homage to a man as PRESIDENT, who is<br/>
the representative of the entire rebellion,<br/>
and who cannot now be recognized as<br/>
President by any man who is not thorough-<br/>
ly disloyal to the Government of the<br/>
United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of what use, then, is it that we at the<br/>
North advocate the restoration of the<br/>
South to her STATUS in the Union, when<br/>
the clergy still preach hostility to the<br/>
Government, and the mayor of Mobile,<br/>
with the approbation of his fellow citi-<br/>
zens, pays public honors to "President"<br/>
Davis? To us it seems wonderful that<br/>
men can expect to have the confidence,<br/>
support and material aid of the North,<br/>
while they thus continue to nurture and<br/>
spread a feeling of disloyalty and posi-<br/>
tive hostility to the government under<br/>
which they live.{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we know that the present genera-<br/>
tion will pass away, and a new generation<br/>
will take their places, before the South<br/>
will be represented in Congress, if in<br/>
public meetings Jeff. Davis continues to<br/>
be toasted as a patriot, and the ministers<br/>
of the gospel foster unfriendliness to the<br/>
Government of the Union.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A NEW DISCOVERY
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(THE AGUE PLANT.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "ague plant" has recently been<br/>
discovered—-not the plant that cures<br/>
ague, but the one that causes it. Here is<br/>
one plant, at least, that we can notice<br/>
without being overwhelmed with applica-<br/>
tions for seed. To be sure, it is a little<br/>
thing, and takes a good eye, aided by a<br/>
good microscope, to find it, but when<br/>
found, it cannot be said it "is no great<br/>
shakes," for it is the "genuine Shaker<br/>
seedling" itself. Doctor J. H. Salisbury,<br/>
of Cleveland, Ohio, announces in the<br/>
AMERICAN JOURNAL OF MEDICAL SCI-<br/>
ENCES, that fever and ague is caused by<br/>
a minute plant, which is found where<br/>
stagnant water has just dried away. The<br/>
spores, or reproductive dust of this<br/>
microscopic plant, are diffused through<br/>
the night damps, and being taken into<br/>
the system by breathing, are the cause of<br/>
that wide spread scourge, the ague. The<br/>
habits of these minute plants completely<br/>
accord with what was before known of<br/>
the occurrence of miasm, and that they<br/>
are the real cause of it has been shown<br/>
by taking boxes of earth containing them,<br/>
to places where an ague was never known<br/>
to occur. In about two weeks after the<br/>
ague plant was taken there, well marked<br/>
cases of the disease appeared. This<br/>
discovery does not, as yet, increase our<br/>
knowledge of the means of ridding our-<br/>
selves of the plant, but it will probably<br/>
lead to that; just as one, if he can only<br/>
find out "how he got such a cold," is al-<br/>
ready half cured. The spores only rise<br/>
in the night, and then to a height varying<br/>
with the locality, of from thirty to one<br/>
hundred feet. This explains why night<br/>
air brings on ague, and why elevated lo-<br/>
calities are free from it. After the ague<br/>
seed is taken into the system, the plant is<br/>
propagated there, and the patient be-<br/>
comes a sort of animated hot bed.—<br/>
AMERICAN AGRICULTURIST.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ten years in Sarawak.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An interesting work on Borneo, its cli-<br/>
mate, inhabitants and geology, entitled<br/>
"TEN YEARS IN SARAWAK," written by<br/>
Mr. Charles Brooke, has been lately pub-<br/>
lished in London. The author is a neph-<br/>
ew of Sir James Brooke, Rajah of Sara-<br/>
wak, who has written an introduction to<br/>
the book. He first introduces the reader<br/>
to his nephew, who he says "is looked<br/>
up to (in Sarawak) as the chief of all the<br/>
Sea Dyaks, or coast natives, and whose<br/>
intimate knowledge of their language,<br/>
customs, and habits, gives him an un-<br/>
bounded influence over them. His task<br/>
has been successfully accomplished of<br/>
trampling out the last efforts of the pira-<br/>
tical Malayan chiefs, and their supporters<br/>
among other tribes of Dyaks and of the<br/>
other countries he describes. He first<br/>
gained over a portion of these Dyaks to<br/>
the cause of order, and then used them<br/>
as his instruments in the same cause, to<br/>
restrain their countrymen. The result<br/>
has been that the coast of Sarawak is as<br/>
safe to the trader as the coast of Eng-<br/>
land, and that an unarmed man can trav-<br/>
erse the country without let or hind-<br/>
rance."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The Rajah then tells us of his hopes<br/>
and fears for the future of his adopted<br/>
country, and in language which all must<br/>
sympathize with who admire his courage<br/>
and patriotism. He speaks sadly of his<br/>
rose colored hopes of assistance from<br/>
England in organising his government<br/>
and settling the country, and how deeply<br/>
he has felt the disappointment which her<br/>
apathy has caused him. Then he tells us<br/>
in a few simple words how he has con-<br/>
soled himself by advancing the happiness<br/>
of his people. The result is that the<br/>
citizen of Sarawak "has every privilege<br/>
enjoyed by the citizen of England, and<br/>
far more personal freedom that is known<br/>
in a thickly populated country. The<br/>
people are not taught industry by being<br/>
forced to work. They take a part in the<br/>
Government under which they live; they<br/>
are consulted upon the taxes they pay<br/>
(by means of a native 'council'), and, in<br/>
short, they are free men."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"To secure however the permanency of<br/>
civilized rule, and thus offer the security<br/>
of Western laws to life and property,<br/>
which would induce emigration to the is-<br/>
land, the protection of some powerful<br/>
nation is necessary, as in the case of the<br/>
Sandwich Islands, which under nearly<br/>
similar conditions, have under the protec-<br/>
torate of England been steadily progres-<br/>
sing in the track of progress and civiliza-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The work thus introduced contains the<br/>
most complete account of Borneo, which<br/>
has ever appeared, as it contains the ex-<br/>
perience of ten years in the country,<br/>
which period the author has devoted to<br/>
the establishment of his Government<br/>
and the development of the resources of<br/>
the country. The customs, habits and<br/>
character of the people are described<br/>
with much detail in a lively narrative of<br/>
events and of romantic adventure which<br/>
make us thoroughly acquainted with the<br/>
interior of native society. In describing<br/>
the resources of the island great stress is<br/>
laid on the certainty in the mind of the<br/>
writer of the existence of extensive and<br/>
paying gold fields in the interior of the<br/>
country, which would convert it into a<br/>
second California and from the descrip-<br/>
tion of the physical features of the land<br/>
surface, and geological formations, is<br/>
would seem highly probable that Mr.<br/>
Brooke's edea' is not a visionary one.<br/>
That the savage inhabitants are stupid<br/>
and violent beyond control, is sufficiently<br/>
disproved by the firm sway which the<br/>
Rajah holds over a large section of them,<br/>
and although they have naturally all the<br/>
vices of Asiatics, being indolent and<br/>
superstitious to a degree, they are easily<br/>
led by kindness and firmness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The author in the close of his work<br/>
discusses the furture prospects of the<br/>
country as respects population and Gov-<br/>
ernment, by which it appears that at pre-<br/>
sent the rate of increase of population is<br/>
nearly equal to that of England. This<br/>
would lead us to hope that the natives of<br/>
Borneo are not destined to be gradually<br/>
trodden out by the advancing stride of<br/>
western civilization; and in the face of<br/>
the universal decimation and final anni-<br/>
hilation of aborigines in all parts of the<br/>
world, which the advent of cotton goods,<br/>
white men and rum, have caused in every<br/>
country colonised, it is a pleasing proof<br/>
of the humane and judicious sway of our<br/>
countrymen in Sarawak, that the popula-<br/>
tion is actually increasing, and that the<br/>
natives are happy and contented under<br/>
their rulers. Mr. Brooke's work will be<br/>
eagerly read by many, for the sake of its<br/>
varied information and lively scraps of<br/>
anecdote and adventure.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Algerian journals are filled with<br/>
details of a disastrous invasion of locusts.<br/>
Thick clouds of them have alighted on<br/>
the country near Dellys, and they are al-<br/>
so most numerous at Marongo. The<br/>
cultivated slopes of Mustapha have suf-<br/>
fered severely, the corn crops being near-<br/>
ly all devoured. At Birmandreis and<br/>
Birksdem the green of the potato and<br/>
bean crop has been completely destroyed.<br/>
Great numbers have appeared at Algiers<br/>
and the neighbourhood, and Churchill<br/>
has been assailed by innumerable flights,<br/>
which have committed dreadful ravages<br/>
at Oued-el-Aleng. A letter from Oran<br/>
announces their arrival in that district,<br/>
where Terrira has suffered the most. The<br/>
military authorities have placed the sol-<br/>
diers at the disposal of the colonists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yesterday a feverish condition of af-<br/>
faire prevailed, the panic having sadly<br/>
embarrassed commercial houses. The<br/>
stoppage of the Commercial Bank of In-<br/>
dia has added to the difficulties of the<br/>
East India and China trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Illustrations of Courage.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the bravest and best generals<br/>
that Europe ever produced, said that he<br/>
never could snuff a candle with his fingers<br/>
without suffering from the fear of being<br/>
burned. We once knew a man who nev-<br/>
er saw a thunder-cloud without trembling<br/>
lest he should be struck by lightning, and<br/>
yet when he came to the end of life he<br/>
had no fear of death, but welcomed it as<br/>
he would rest from a tiresome journey.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have seen a man who wouldn't faint at<br/>
the sight of blood, as cheerful in view of<br/>
immediate dissolution as though he had<br/>
been invited to a party and was hastening<br/>
to go. Again, we have seen a strong<br/>
man who had braved dangers on the land<br/>
and seas, who was absolutely afraid of<br/>
being alone in the dark. He had no fear<br/>
of anything he could see, but a mortal<br/>
dread of the unseen,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President had sent to the House<br/>
of Representatives important diplomatic<br/>
correspondence relating to Mexico. Sub-<br/>
joined are abstracts of the several dis-<br/>
patches:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 12th February last Mr. Seward<br/>
addressed a communication to M. Mon-<br/>
tholon, citing and answering in detail the<br/>
arguments advanced by M. Drouyn de<br/>
Lhuys in January in defence of the<br/>
course pursued by France in Mexico.<br/>
M. Drouyn de Lhuys had declared that<br/>
the objects of the French Mexican ex-<br/>
pedition were not hostile to the institu-<br/>
tions of the New World, nor was it de-<br/>
sired to realise ambitious schemes or to<br/>
impose monarchical government upon<br/>
Mexico against the will of the people,<br/>
but only to obtain just reparation for the<br/>
wrongs of French residents, and to secure<br/>
guarantees for their future rights. A<br/>
number of influential men in Mexico, in-<br/>
cluding one of the late Presidents, des-<br/>
paired of obtaining order under Repub-<br/>
lican government, and favoured the re-<br/>
establishment of royalty. France sus-<br/>
tained an imperial government in Mexico,<br/>
founded on the consent of the people,<br/>
because that government furnished the<br/>
requisite reparation and guarantees. M.<br/>
Drouyn de Lhuys further alluded to the<br/>
aid furnished to the United States by<br/>
France during the revolutionary war, to<br/>
the proposal that the United States should<br/>
join the Mexican expedition, and to the<br/>
neutrality observed by France during the<br/>
late rebellion.—-Mr. Seward, in reply, ac-<br/>
knowledged the traditional friendship be-<br/>
tween the two countries, and the respect<br/>
and consideration due to the representa-<br/>
tions of France, but the Federal govern-<br/>
ment had seen no satisfactory evidence<br/>
that the people of Mexico originally ac-<br/>
cepted the so-called empire, nor could<br/>
any such acceptance be lawfully procured<br/>
in presence of the French army of invasion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In another despatch M. Drouyn de<br/>
Lhuys alluded to the former friendly re-<br/>
lations between the United States and the<br/>
Emperor Iturbide. Intestine war had be-<br/>
come the normal condition of Mexico,<br/>
and the present opposition to Maximilian<br/>
was only the result of previous anarchy.<br/>
All States needed allies, and French aid<br/>
did not divest the revolutionary war of its<br/>
true national character.—-Mr. Seward re-<br/>
plies that nations have no right to correct<br/>
each other's errors, except to protect<br/>
their own interests. The United States<br/>
did not regard the government of Maxi-<br/>
milian as legitimate or capable of forming<br/>
alliances. M. Drouyn de Lhuys urged<br/>
the advantages to the United States from<br/>
a stable government in Mexico; these<br/>
advantages Mr. Seward admitted, but<br/>
declared they cannot counterbalance the<br/>
injury caused by the overthrow of the<br/>
republic. The United States would feel<br/>
gratified when the French emperor gave<br/>
definite information when the French<br/>
forces would be withdrawn from Mexico.<br/>
The withdrawal need not be delayed un-<br/>
der any apprehension that the United<br/>
States would prove unfaithful to their<br/>
declared policy of non-intervention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On April 6, 1866, M. Drouyn de Lhuys<br/>
wrote to M. de Montholon that the French<br/>
government recognised the desire of the<br/>
United States to cause the traditional<br/>
sentiments of amity between the two coun-<br/>
tries to prevail over the divergencies of<br/>
government relations. France receives with<br/>
confidence the assurance that the United<br/>
States will not prove unfaithful to their<br/>
promise of non-intervention, and finds<br/>
therein sufficient guarantee no longer to<br/>
delay the withdrawal of the French forces.<br/>
The emperor has decided that his troops<br/>
should evacuate Mexico in three detach-<br/>
ments—-the first in November next, the<br/>
second in March 1867, and the third in<br/>
November, 1867.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On March 18 Mr. Seward wrote to Mr.<br/>
Motley, the American minister at Vienna,<br/>
acknowledging the receipt of his com-<br/>
munication wherein the latter announced<br/>
the probability that Austria would consent<br/>
to and permit the levy of 4000 volunteers<br/>
for Mexico. Mr. Motley was instructed<br/>
emphatically to protest against such a<br/>
proceeding, and to state that in the event<br/>
of hostilities being prosecuted in Mexico<br/>
by Austrian subjects in the manner de-<br/>
scribed, the United States will regard it<br/>
as a war between the Republic of Mexico<br/>
and Austria, and cannot engage to remain<br/>
neutral spectators.—-On April 16 Mr.<br/>
Seward again wrote to Mr. Motley ac-<br/>
knowledging the receipt of a despatch<br/>
from him informing Mr. Seward that 1000<br/>
Austrians were about to embark for<br/>
Mexico at Trieste. Mr. Motley was in-<br/>
structed to inform the Austrian govern-<br/>
ment that the United States regarded the<br/>
despatch of Austrian troops to Mexico<br/>
while negotiations were pending with<br/>
serious concern.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Wholesale Murderer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A series of murders rivalling any<br/>
chronicled in English criminal annals has<br/>
been perpetrated in the suburbs of Phila-<br/>
delphia. On a small farm, scarcely a<br/>
mile from the densely populated portions<br/>
of Philadelphia, lived a grazier named<br/>
Christopher Deering, who raised cattle<br/>
and sold them to the city butchers. Deer-<br/>
ing had a wife and five small children,<br/>
the eldest 10 years of age, the youngest<br/>
a babe at the mother's breast. A niece<br/>
about 35 years of age also lived with him;<br/>
and the cattle and two or three horses<br/>
owned by the head of the family were<br/>
taken care of by an apprentice boy aged<br/>
17, and a German farm labourer who was<br/>
a discharged soldier and had been em-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ployed on the farm for about two months.<br/>
Being a dealer in cattle, Mr. Deering oc-<br/>
casionally had large sums of money in<br/>
his possession, and this is believed to<br/>
have prompted the terrible crime. On<br/>
Saturday, the 7th of April, Mr. Deering<br/>
was in the city with his niece and drove<br/>
home in a one-horse waggon. His eldest<br/>
boy at the same time went on a visit to<br/>
a relative in the city; a visit which saved<br/>
his life. After Saturday Mr. Deering was<br/>
not seen alive. As he lived in a some-<br/>
what isolated section he was not visited<br/>
very frequently, and it was not until late<br/>
on the afternoon on the following Wed-<br/>
nesday, the 11th of April, that any one<br/>
had occasion to go to his house. This casual<br/>
visitor found all the doors locked and<br/>
could not effect an entrance, but hearing<br/>
the horses and cattle making a great noise<br/>
in a stable and barn near by, he went to<br/>
see what was the matter there. The<br/>
poor animals having had nothing to eat<br/>
for five days were famished, and in mov-<br/>
ing about the barn to procure them food<br/>
and water the visitor saw a sight which<br/>
thrilled him with horror. On the barn floor,<br/>
partly covered with hay, were seven dead<br/>
bodies. Almost paralyzed with fright,<br/>
he managed to summon people from the<br/>
neighbouring farms, and the terrible tra-<br/>
gedy was disclosed. Deering's body was<br/>
out, the skull smashed by a heavy blow,<br/>
and the throat cut from ear to ear; his<br/>
wife's was also drawn out, her skull<br/>
smashed and her throat cut. Then came<br/>
the corpse of the niece, her skull also<br/>
smashed and her throat cut. Then, in<br/>
quick succession the four little children<br/>
were found, all with skulls broken and<br/>
throats cut, even the poor little babe,<br/>
scarcely a year old, helpless and incapa-<br/>
ble of resistance, having suffered the fate<br/>
that overwhelmed the others. The deed<br/>
had been complete, and the family thus<br/>
heaped together had apparently died to-<br/>
gether. The house had been ransacked<br/>
from garret to cellar. The beds were
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ripped open, chests of drawers stove in,<br/>
and furniture broken. But who did this<br/>
terrible deed? Suspicion naturally rested<br/>
upon the apprentice boy and the Ger-<br/>
man labourer. A further search, how-<br/>
ever, disclosed the dead body of the boy,<br/>
concealed under a haystack, about 100<br/>
yards from the house. His skull had<br/>
been broken by a hammer, which lay be-<br/>
side the body, and his throat had also<br/>
been cut. The unexampled atrocity of<br/>
a man committing eight murders in cold<br/>
blood, one after the other; killing four<br/>
little inoffensive children, smashing their<br/>
heads and cutting their throats, was<br/>
enough to make all who heard of it an-<br/>
xious to ferret out the murderer. The<br/>
popular solution of his mode of operation<br/>
was, that taking advantage of the ab-<br/>
sence of Mr. Deering and his niece, the<br/>
German first killed the apprentice boy<br/>
to get him out of the way. This was<br/>
done outside the house, as all the mur-<br/>
ders were, for there was no blood in the<br/>
house. He then decoyed the mother to<br/>
the barn, and she naturally carried the<br/>
babe with her, and he made away with<br/>
both of them. To decoy the three other<br/>
children to the barn and kill them was<br/>
an easy task. This was done during the<br/>
absence of Deering and his niece in the<br/>
city. For a desperate man to make away<br/>
with the drover when he reached home<br/>
and went to put his horse in the stable<br/>
was also easy. Deering's horse, when the<br/>
murder was discovered, was tied to the<br/>
manager; and the niece, missing all the<br/>
others, naturally went to the barn where<br/>
her uncle had last gone, and she was kill-<br/>
ed too. The murderer then went to the<br/>
house, ransacked it, changed his clothes<br/>
(for his bloody garments were found in<br/>
an upper chamber), and escaped. This<br/>
unparalleled atrocity having appalled<br/>
every-one in that section of country, peo-<br/>
ple answering the description of the Ger-<br/>
man were narrowly scanned. Search was<br/>
made all over the city, and many persons<br/>
were arrested, and among them the veri-<br/>
table German himself. He had never<br/>
left town. He had walked about in open<br/>
daylight for three days after the murder<br/>
was discovered. His arrest was hailed<br/>
with delight, and great masses of people<br/>
clustered round the police-station, de-<br/>
manding that he be given them to hang.<br/>
He was with difficulty taken before the<br/>
mayor, and squads of armed police were<br/>
required to guard the carriage in which<br/>
he was conveyed from the assaults of the<br/>
infuriated mob. The German told his<br/>
story, and said the family were murdered<br/>
as described above, but laid the chief<br/>
part of the crime on an accomplice. The<br/>
accomplice, he said killed the family; he,<br/>
the apprentice boy, and it had all been<br/>
done with axes and a hammer. They<br/>
plundered the house and got a few trin-<br/>
kets, some clothes, and 350 dels. in money.<br/>
This terrible crime had been committed to<br/>
secure a sum of not more than £70! The<br/>
German says he never saw his accomplice<br/>
before the murder; and this fact, with<br/>
the general incoherence of the whole<br/>
story about the accomplice, leads to the<br/>
inference that the German did all the<br/>
horrid deed himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-28_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE British Schooner "Erin"<br/>
of about 4,000 piculs carry-<br/>
ing capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel sails very fast and<br/>
having recently undergone exten-<br/>
sive repairs is now in first rate or-<br/>
der, and can be sent to sea without<br/>
expense. The "Erin" has turned<br/>
out 275 tons dead weight, and is<br/>
a very suitable vessel for carrying<br/>
general cargo. Having had new<br/>
yellow metal sheathing put on<br/>
last year, she may be expected to<br/>
run for at least two years, from<br/>
the present time. without any<br/>
large outlay for repairs or Stores.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For further particulars apply to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SCOTT & Co.
Agents for the Owner.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK JUNE 28TH 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
