---
linkTitle: 'May 24th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 24th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 24th'
date: 2025-12-05T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 43
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, May 24th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 20.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
God is Everywhere.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the daisy, meekly peeping<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Its head above the sod ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the chorus birds are singing,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And sending up to God.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In wild flowers sweetly growing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With lovely tints and hues;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Refresh'd by breezes blowing.—<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}By showers and pearly dews.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the butterfly that's dancing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Away its happy hour :<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the busy bee that's winging<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Its flight from flower to flower.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the sun's bright beams of glory,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And cheering golden rays :<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the frost and snow so hoary,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of chilling winter days.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the tow'ring lofty mountain,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in the lowly vale:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the pearly crystal fountain,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In wind, and storm, and hail.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the thunder loudly crashing,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in the startling gleam<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of the lightning's vivid flashing,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in the flowing stream.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In brooks and lowly willows,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In giant cedars tall ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the ocean's tossing billows,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Or roaring waterfall.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In all around I see Him,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in the heavens above;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His works aloud proclaim Him<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}A God of truth and love.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
JOHN MOOR.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mr. John Stuart Mill M. P.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE learned late Master of Trinity, a<br/>
few days before his death, congratulated<br/>
the electors of Westminster on having<br/>
realized a suggestion of Plato's, that it<br/>
would be well for a country to give its<br/>
philosophers a place among its political<br/>
rulers. It is yet too soon for us to antici-<br/>
pate the part which Mr. John Stuart Mill<br/>
is likely to take in the practical debates of<br/>
Parliament, though his bill for the reor-<br/>
ganisation of local government in the me-<br/>
tropolis seems a valuable contribution to<br/>
the legislative stock. But his theoretical<br/>
opinions on nearly all the questions of es-<br/>
sential principle that underlie the contro-<br/>
versies of the present day are very clearly<br/>
defined. They have been published in<br/>
those consummate expositions of sound<br/>
thought and generous sentiment which<br/>
have helped to guide the counsels of the<br/>
most intellectual section of Reformers in<br/>
England during more than thirty years.<br/>
Of course, these views and the spirit in<br/>
which they were set forth are extremely<br/>
remote from those clamorous appeals to<br/>
vulgar passion, in the name of a spurious<br/>
and overbearing democracy, which were<br/>
rife until lately upon the platforms of rest-<br/>
less faction. Liberal and progressive in<br/>
the truest sense; full of a frank confidence<br/>
in the disposition of the great body of the<br/>
people; full of the purest zeal for the ele-<br/>
vation of mankind, the strongest faith in<br/>
the good results of individual and nation-<br/>
al freedom, his writings could never be<br/>
rooted by any orator who strove to stir up<br/>
the hatred of one class against another, or<br/>
be pretended to urge the claim of one<br/>
numbers to control the government of the<br/>
State. With what important reservations,<br/>
or what hopes of giving an equitable and<br/>
useful direction to the advanced Medical<br/>
party, Mr. Mill has now condescended to<br/>
leave the tranquil atmosphere of his lofty<br/>
studies and mingle in the actual fray, might<br/>
partly be gathered from his declarations<br/>
last year, when he was elected, and from<br/>
comparing these with his books. It is not<br/>
our purpose here to estimate the signifi-<br/>
cance of his presence in the new House<br/>
of Commons. He is welcomed there by<br/>
the wisest and most thoughtful men of all<br/>
parties—-Conservatives as well as Reform-<br/>
ers—-who cherish the intellectual reputa-<br/>
tion of that House, and trust that the<br/>
standard of argument in its discussions<br/>
may be improved by the example of one of<br/>
the greatest masters of the art of thinking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His eminence in that capacity is recog-<br/>
nized by all the educated classes of his<br/>
countrymen. Some years ago, when a<br/>
meeting of the British Social Science As-<br/>
sociation had brought many strangers to<br/>
Oxford, a Frenchman, happening to talk<br/>
with a resident member of the University,<br/>
inquired about the state of philosophical<br/>
pursuits among us. “I see here,” he said,<br/>
“in your ancient colleges a richly-endow-<br/>
ed provision for that kind of scholar-ship<br/>
which consists of the study of the classi-<br/>
cal languages and literature ; I see, too, in<br/>
the movements of your scientific societies<br/>
and congresses a great deal of activity em-<br/>
ployed in the investigation of physical<br/>
phenomena, or in the collection and com-<br/>
parison of statistics relating to the practi-<br/>
cal interests of mankind. But have you<br/>
any philosopher of first-rate powers who<br/>
studies to verify and to account for the or-<br/>
iginal sources of human knowledge—who<br/>
strives to understand the process of belief<br/>
or who seeks to analyse the constitution of<br/>
the mind, to define its capacities and oper-<br/>
ations, and the conditions and the limits of<br/>
its acquaintance with the universe?” The<br/>
Englishman answered “Yes ; we have<br/>
John Stuart Mill. He is not only a politi-<br/>
cal thinker, who has defined the functions<br/>
of Government, and whose ‘Essay on Lib-<br/>
erty’ is as good, as your Rousseau’s ‘Con-<br/>
trat Social’ is bad ; for Mill concludes in<br/>
favour of the perfect freedom of the indi-<br/>
vidual, while Rousseau ends by establish-<br/>
ing the absolute power of the community<br/>
over each of its members. Mill is not on-<br/>
ly an economist who has treated—-with the<br/>
most refined scientific analysis, and in a<br/>
most comprehensive discussion—-of the<br/>
laws of the production and diffusion of<br/>
wealth, yet regarding them as subordinate<br/>
to the improvement of humanity. He is<br/>
not only a moralist, who has enlarged, el-<br/>
evated, and purified the meagre Utilitari-<br/>
anism of Bentham ; and, while vindicating<br/>
the ethical principle of the greatest hap-<br/>
piness, shown, how it may be reconciled<br/>
with the aspirations of heroic virtue and<br/>
devotion. He is also a mental philosopher,<br/>
allied most nearly to Locke, but one who<br/>
has arrived at the best results that are at-<br/>
tainable within the limits of that theory<br/>
which makes experience the source of all<br/>
our knowledge ; and on this ground he has<br/>
taken a position rivalling at least the chief<br/>
of the Scottish metaphysicians. He is, a-<br/>
bove all, the author of a complete system<br/>
of logic, exhibiting all the methods or pro-<br/>
cesses, both the syllogistic and the induc-<br/>
tive, which can be employed by the intel-<br/>
lect in the pursuit of truth ; he has laid<br/>
down rules for the investigation of facts,<br/>
and for drawing correct inferences from<br/>
their evidence, with a view to positive<br/>
science, as the lawyers have their own<br/>
rules of evidence to direct the trial of<br/>
cases in our courts ; and so far as the mor-<br/>
al science are concerned, he has, with as<br/>
much success as M. Comte in your country,<br/>
described their place and order in a gener-<br/>
al system of philosophy, and the respective<br/>
conditions of their study.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This being the intellectual reputation of<br/>
Mr. Mill, whose works are used as author-<br/>
ized text-books in the great English Uni-<br/>
versities, and who is held by his numerous<br/>
disciples to have superseded the famous<br/>
philosophical teaching of the University<br/>
of Edinburgh, there is one thing about his<br/>
personal history which seems to deserve<br/>
especial remark. His mind, one of the<br/>
most highly cultivated, as well as one of<br/>
the most original which the age can boast,<br/>
was never subjected to academical instruc-<br/>
tion in school or college. In his youth he<br/>
was taught at home by his eminent father,<br/>
and no education could have done so much<br/>
for him as to be the child and pupil of<br/>
such a man as James Mill, whose merits<br/>
and achievements are rather enhanced than<br/>
eclipsed by the more illustrious career of<br/>
his son. In the year 1773, at the time<br/>
when two other great thinkers of Scotland,<br/>
David Hume and Adam Smith, were shed-<br/>
ding clear light upon the most important<br/>
themes of mental and social philosophy,<br/>
James Mill was born, of humble parents, in<br/>
a village in Forfarshire. By the assistance<br/>
of a gentleman in the neighbourhood, Sir<br/>
John Stuart, whose liberality has since<br/>
been nobly recompensed through the glory<br/>
acquired by his namesake in our days,<br/>
James Mill received the benefits of learn-<br/>
ing. He commenced a literary career first<br/>
in Edinburgh, afterwards in London. He<br/>
turned his attention first to psychology, as<br/>
a follow of Hartley, founding all the con-<br/>
ceptions of the mind on mere combinations<br/>
of sensations ; secondly, to political econ-<br/>
omy, in which he followed Ricardo. He<br/>
produced books on each of those subjects,<br/>
the best that could then be written from<br/>
their own point of view. He then com-<br/>
posed a “History of British India,” a<br/>
work, not only of accurate research, but of<br/>
great narrative interest and philosophical<br/>
insight. An official appointment in the<br/>
India House relieved him from the toils<br/>
and cares of one who has to earn his bread<br/>
by his pen, and then gave him leisure to<br/>
form the mind of his son, born at Fenton-<br/>
ville, in the year 1806, whose career has<br/>
been in remarkable harmony with that of<br/>
the father.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Queen's Speech.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
My Lords and Gentlemen,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is with great satisfaction that I have<br/>
recourse to your assistance and advice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have recently declared my consent<br/>
to a marriage between my daughter Prin-<br/>
cess Helena and Prince Christian of<br/>
Schleswig-Holstein Sonderburg-Augus-<br/>
tenburg. I trust this union may be pro-<br/>
perous and happy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The death of my beloved uncle the<br/>
King of the Belgians has affected me with<br/>
profound grief. I feel great confidence,<br/>
however, that the wisdom which he evin-<br/>
ced during his reign will animate his suc-<br/>
cessor, and preserve for Belgium her in-<br/>
dependence and prosperity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My relations with foreign Powers are<br/>
friendly and satisfactory, and I see no<br/>
cause to fear any disturbance of the ge-<br/>
neral peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The meeting of the fleets of France<br/>
and England in the ports of the respec-<br/>
tive countries has tended to cement the<br/>
amity of the two nations, and to prove to<br/>
the world their friendly concert in the<br/>
promotion of peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have observed with satisfaction that<br/>
the United States, after terminating suc-<br/>
cessfully the severe struggle in which<br/>
they were so long engaged, are wisely re-<br/>
pairing the ravages of civil war. The<br/>
abolition of slavery is an event calling<br/>
forth the cordial sympathies and congra-<br/>
tulations of this country, which has al-<br/>
ways been foremost in showing its ab-<br/>
horrence of an institution repugnant to<br/>
every feeling of justice and humanity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have at the same time the satisfac-<br/>
tion to inform you that the exertions and<br/>
perseverance of my naval squadron have<br/>
reduced the slave trade on the West Coast<br/>
of Africa within very narrow limits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondence has taken place be-<br/>
tween my Government and that of the<br/>
United States with respect to injuries in-<br/>
flicted on American commerce by cruis-<br/>
ers under the Confederate flag. Copies<br/>
of this correspondence will be laid be-<br/>
fore you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The renewal of diplomatic relations<br/>
with Brazil has given me much satisfac-<br/>
tion, and I acknowledge with pleasure<br/>
that the good offices of my ally, the King<br/>
of Portugal, have contributed essentially<br/>
to this happy result.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have to regret the interruption of<br/>
peace between Spain and Chili. The<br/>
good offices of my Government, in con-<br/>
junction with those of the Emperor of<br/>
the French, have been accepted by Spain,<br/>
and it is my earnest hope that the caus-<br/>
es of disagreement may be removed in<br/>
a manner honourable and satisfactory to<br/>
both countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The negotiations which have been long<br/>
pending in Japan, and which have been<br/>
conducted with great ability by my Min-<br/>
ister in that country in conjunction with<br/>
the representatives of my allies in Japan,<br/>
have been brought to a conclusion which<br/>
merits my entire approbation. The exis-<br/>
ting treaties have been ratified by the<br/>
Mikado; it has been stipulated that the<br/>
tariff shall be revised in a manner favour-<br/>
able to commerce, and that the indemni-<br/>
ty due under the terms of the convention<br/>
of October, 1864, shall be punctually<br/>
discharged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have concluded a treaty of commerce<br/>
with the Emperor of Austria, which I<br/>
trust will open to that empire the blessings<br/>
of extended commerce and be produc-<br/>
tive of important benefits to both coun-<br/>
tries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deplorable events which have oc-<br/>
curred in the island of Jamaica have in-<br/>
duced me to provide at once for an im-<br/>
partial inquiry, and for the due main-<br/>
tenance of authority during that inquiry,<br/>
by appointing a distinguished military<br/>
officer as Governor and Commander of<br/>
the Forces. I have given him the assis-<br/>
tance of two able and learned commission-<br/>
ers, who will aid him in examining into<br/>
the origin, nature, and circumstances of<br/>
the recent outbreak, and the measures<br/>
adopted in the course of its suppression.<br/>
The Legislature of Jamaica has propos-<br/>
ed that the present political Constitution<br/>
of the island should be replaced by a new<br/>
form of government. A bill upon this<br/>
subject will be submitted to your consid-<br/>
eration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Papers on these occurrences will be<br/>
laid before you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Papers on the present state of New<br/>
Zealand will be laid before you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have given directions for the return<br/>
to this country of the greater portion of<br/>
my regular forces employed in that<br/>
colony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I watch with interest the proceedings<br/>
which are still in progress in British<br/>
North America with a view to a closer<br/>
union among the provinces, and I contin-<br/>
ue to attach great importance to that<br/>
object.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have observed with great concern<br/>
the extensive prevalence, during the last<br/>
few months, of a virulent distemper<br/>
among cattle in Great Britain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
with deep regret, and with sincere sym-<br/>
pathy for the sufferers, that I have learnt<br/>
the severe losses which it has caused in<br/>
many countries and districts. It is satis-<br/>
factory to know that Ireland and a consi-<br/>
derable part of Scotland are as yet free<br/>
from this calamity; and I trust that, by<br/>
the precautions suggested by experience,<br/>
and by the Divine blessing on the means<br/>
which are now being employed, its fur-<br/>
ther extension may be arrested.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The orders which have been made by<br/>
the Lords of my Privy Council, by vir-<br/>
tue of the powers vested in them by law,<br/>
with a view to prevent the spreading of<br/>
this disease, will be laid before you; and<br/>
your attention will be called to the expe-<br/>
diency of an amendment of the law rela-<br/>
ting to a subject so deeply affecting the<br/>
interests of my people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
**GENTLEMEN OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS**
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have directed that the Estimates of<br/>
the ensuing year shall be laid before you.<br/>
They have been prepared with a due re-<br/>
gard to economy, and are at the same<br/>
time consistent with the maintenance of<br/>
efficiency in the public service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The condition of trade is satisfactory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
**MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN,**
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A conspiracy, adverse alike to authori-<br/>
ty, property, and religion, and disaprov-<br/>
ed and condemned alike by all who are<br/>
interested in their maintenance, without<br/>
distinction of creed or class, has unhap-<br/>
pily appeared in Ireland. The constitu-<br/>
tional power of the ordinary tribunals<br/>
has been exerted for its repression,<br/>
and the authority of the law has been<br/>
firmly and impartially vindicated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bill will be submitted to you, found-<br/>
ed on the report of the Royal Commis-<br/>
sion on the subject of capital punish-<br/>
ment, which I have directed to be laid<br/>
before you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bills will be laid before you for amend-<br/>
ing and consolidating the laws relating to<br/>
bankruptcy, and for other improvements<br/>
in the law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Measures will also be submitted to you<br/>
for extending the system of public audit<br/>
to branches of receipt and expenditure,<br/>
which it has not hitherto reached, and<br/>
for amending the provisions of the law<br/>
with respect to certain classes of legal<br/>
pensions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Your attention will be called to the<br/>
subject of the oaths taken by members<br/>
of Parliament, with a view to avoid un-<br/>
necessary declarations, and to remove in-<br/>
vidious distinctions between members of<br/>
different religious communities in matters<br/>
of legislation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have directed that information should<br/>
be procured in reference to the rights of<br/>
voting in the election of members to<br/>
serve in Parliament for counties, cities,<br/>
and boroughs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When that information is complete the<br/>
attention of Parliament will be called to<br/>
the result thus obtained, with a view to<br/>
such improvements in the laws which re-<br/>
gulate the rights of voting in the election<br/>
of members of the House of Commons<br/>
as may tend to strengthen our free insti-<br/>
tutions and conduce to the public welfare.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In these and all other deliberations I<br/>
fervently pray that the blessing of Al-<br/>
mighty God may guide your counsels to<br/>
the promotion of the happiness of my<br/>
people.—-THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON<br/>
NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Speeches of President
Johnson and Mr. Bancroft
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(DAILY NEWS.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American custom of publicly cele-<br/>
brating the anniversaries of deceased<br/>
patriots has at no time been recommended<br/>
by the style of oratory which it has de-<br/>
veloped. Before the war it had greatly<br/>
contributed to form a habit of hollow and<br/>
turbid declamation, often in strange con-<br/>
trast with the simplicity and truthfulness<br/>
of the characters nominally honoured.<br/>
Last month witnessed two of these cele-<br/>
brations, severally dedicated to the me-<br/>
mory of Abraham Lincoln and George<br/>
Washington. The speaker at the first<br/>
was Mr. Bancroft, the historian, and at<br/>
the second President Johnson. Neither<br/>
can be charged with the coldness which<br/>
marked the “orations” of former days;<br/>
both were glowing with passion; but the<br/>
address of neither was of a kind to gladden<br/>
the hearts of true patriots, or inspire dis-<br/>
tant observers with respect. Mr. John-<br/>
son’s speech was full of the old Tennessee<br/>
spirit, with this important difference, that<br/>
instead of being directed against the<br/>
Southern dis-Unionists, it was pointed at<br/>
men, but for whose public spirit and con-<br/>
stancy under disappointment and misfor-<br/>
tune he would not now be President of<br/>
the United States. His denunciations,<br/>
however, were not altogether without<br/>
cause. The President was defending<br/>
himself against violent and unjust attacks.<br/>
He had been personally assailed with a<br/>
bitterness which has rarely been surpass-<br/>
ed on account of his reconstruction policy,<br/>
and since the promulgation of his veto on<br/>
the Freedmen’s Bureau Bill, has been de-<br/>
nounced in Congress itself as a rebel and<br/>
traitor, and as an “obstacle which must<br/>
be got rid of.” It is now [.....]<br/>
detractors with words of wrath. The<br/>
problem of reconstruction is a very dif-<br/>
ficult one; it may be that the policy<br/>
which the President is pursuing will not<br/>
succeed in winning back the South, and<br/>
yet it may be his duty to try it, and to<br/>
hope for its success. Nor will his pre-<br/>
sent opponents have any right to taunt<br/>
him with its eventual failure. The dif-<br/>
ference between the President's and the<br/>
Radicals' is, that his plan contemplates<br/>
the whole Southern population, while<br/>
they care only for the negroes; forget-<br/>
ting that if the black man is to prosper, it<br/>
must be by the prosperity of the whole<br/>
community, and that if he is to enjoy<br/>
freedom it must be through the reinvi-<br/>
goration of free institutions; and that no<br/>
legislation which should impair these<br/>
could permanently serve his interests.<br/>
We can discover no signs that the course<br/>
which the Radicals have followed has<br/>
had the effect of driving President John-<br/>
son into the hands of the old Copper-<br/>
head party, although it was well cal-<br/>
culated to have that effect upon a weak-<br/>
er man. The President has plainly and<br/>
repeatedly declared that for the present<br/>
the negro must and shall be protected at<br/>
the South by special legislative and ad-<br/>
ministrative measures, with the execution<br/>
of which he is ready to charge himself.<br/>
Two days after the date of his veto he<br/>
told General Howard that he interpreted<br/>
the act of Congress passed last session as<br/>
authorizing the continuance of the Freed-<br/>
men's Bureau for one year from the pro-<br/>
clamation of peace which he proposes<br/>
shortly to issue. And he has declared<br/>
himself ready to go further than this, and<br/>
to give his assent to a Bill extending<br/>
the powers and operation of the existing<br/>
Bureau for two years. It is, therefore,<br/>
most unjust to represent him as opposed<br/>
to measures necessary for the protection<br/>
of the freedmen, and we cannot wonder<br/>
at the indignation he expressed on<br/>
Washington's birthday. His speech was<br/>
provoked by personal attacks; it was ut-<br/>
tered in defence of the constitution; and,<br/>
unlike those to which it was a reply, it<br/>
contained no menaces. But for all this it<br/>
was a coarse exhibition, and altogether<br/>
unworthy of the high office of the speak-<br/>
er. In the very endeavour to be superior<br/>
to parties Mr. Johnson is becoming a<br/>
partisan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Bancroft's address on President<br/>
Lincoln's birthday was of a wholly dif-<br/>
ferent character. It was the result of<br/>
study and preparation. The puerile<br/>
vanity of the sentiment and the inflation<br/>
of the style would be amusing if we could<br/>
forget how often the display of these<br/>
childish qualities has dangerously misled<br/>
the world by causing it to disbelieve in<br/>
that earnestness and strength of the na-<br/>
tional character which underlies so much<br/>
superficial folly. The insults offered to<br/>
this country were gratuitous and imper-<br/>
tinent. What qualifications for doing<br/>
honour to President Lincoln can be as-<br/>
cribed to one who makes the birthday of<br/>
the late President the occasion for an out-<br/>
pouring of vulgar abuse upon any body;<br/>
A viler tribute to the sad, kindly, re-<br/>
ticent, peace-loving Lincoln than this<br/>
"oration" it would be difficult to imagine.<br/>
And the insult was elaborated with the<br/>
knowledge that the representative of this<br/>
country would be present to hear it. We<br/>
wonder if Mr. Bancroft once asked him-<br/>
self what were the reasons which led<br/>
Sir Frederick Bruce to accept the invita-<br/>
tion to the House of Representatives.<br/>
Did he suppose that the Minister was at-<br/>
tracted by the magic of his genius, or<br/>
was simply obeying the summons of Mr.<br/>
Seward? We know why our Ambassador<br/>
went, and that he would not have done<br/>
justice to the sincere, though tardy, feel-<br/>
ings of the English people if he had not<br/>
been present. Mr. Lincoln was more<br/>
honored that day by the willing attendance<br/>
and the magnanimous indifference of the<br/>
British Ambassador than he was by the<br/>
high wrought "eloquence" of his own<br/>
countryman. In the eyes of Sir Freder-<br/>
ick Bruce the littleness of the living could<br/>
not diminish the greatness of the dead;<br/>
and, agreeing with him, none of us regret<br/>
that he attended the celebration of Mr.<br/>
Lincoln's birthday, even at the cost of<br/>
listening to an oration from Mr. Bancroft.<br/>
But Mr. Seward must take care that our<br/>
Minister shall not again be made the vic-<br/>
tim of confidence in American hospitality.<br/>
One accident of this kind is too many.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Profitable Invention.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. A. B. Wilson, inventor of the<br/>
sewing machine, which has made him a<br/>
millionaire, left North Adams, Massachu-<br/>
setts, some fifteen years ago, forlorn and<br/>
shabby, with his pack and dinner on his<br/>
back, and with scarcely a dime in his<br/>
pocket. He now returns to build the<br/>
Wilson Block, which will perpetuate his<br/>
name and borrow interests from his vicissi-<br/>
tudes. It will be one of the finest struc-<br/>
tures in Massachusetts, and a model of<br/>
architectural beauty. The upper stories<br/>
are designed for a hotel, with all the<br/>
arrangements of the best in the country.<br/>
Most of the rooms are already engaged<br/>
by Bostonians, in view of the prospective<br/>
dangers of the cholera [......]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
May 24th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTH DAY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have this day been looking<br/>
meditatively on the picture of the Illus-<br/>
trious [....] Her most gracious Ma-<br/>
jesty, the Queen of England in<br/>
the Illustrated London News for the<br/>
10th of Feb. and reading in connec-<br/>
tion the editorial account of Her Ma-<br/>
jesty's opening Parliament in person<br/>
on Tuesday the 6th of Feb; and are<br/>
happy to find our feelings in lively<br/>
sympathy with true Englishmen in<br/>
their high regard and profound love<br/>
for their Queen, and their gladness in<br/>
seeing her again, after her long "bap-<br/>
tism of sorrow" coming out from her<br/>
seclusion, nobly determining to cheer<br/>
her great people by opening herself the<br/>
New Parliament according to the ri-<br/>
tual of their noble constitution.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And when we remember that this<br/>
day is Her Majesty's 47th birth day,<br/>
and that it will be commemorated with<br/>
great joy by the many millions of<br/>
Her Majesty's subjects in all parts of<br/>
the earth, we feel our hearts going out<br/>
in this direction also, and would be<br/>
happy to unite with Her Majesty's<br/>
subjects in this "end of the earth" in<br/>
extolling Her Majesty's extraordinary<br/>
virtues and craving from the Most<br/>
High the best of Heaven's blessings<br/>
upon her royal person, her royal fami-<br/>
ly, and her great kingdom. But as<br/>
no Englishmen has thought it suita-<br/>
ble to invite us to join him in an ap-<br/>
propriate festival for this great occa-<br/>
sion, we must content ourselves in do-<br/>
ing what we can in our humble posi-<br/>
tion as editor of THE BANGKOK RECOR-<br/>
DER, now a very diminutive thing, but to<br/>
be honored nevertheless for what it is<br/>
destined to become. Here then on this<br/>
little sheet, so full of promise of great<br/>
growth and power, we record our<br/>
heart-felt sentiment—a toast if you so<br/>
please to call it, but to be drank with<br/>
the best wine of heaven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HER MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA—-<br/>
the most illustrious and lovely Queen<br/>
England has ever had—May her bap-<br/>
tism of sorrow be turned henceforth and<br/>
forever into a baptism of joy-—Her<br/>
illustrious children copy closely her<br/>
most excellent example and share her<br/>
future blissful reward—-Her noble<br/>
subjects, wide expanding as the globe<br/>
we inhabit, move onward and upward<br/>
in every great and good reform in fra-<br/>
ternal conjunction with their own true<br/>
American Cousins, until perfection of<br/>
human government shall be fully rea-<br/>
lized on both sides of the Atlantic,<br/>
and be copied by all the nations and<br/>
kingdoms of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Buddhist Champion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we have never logically answer-<br/>
ed our antagonist's objection to the<br/>
Bible on the Rainbow question, and<br/>
since he thinks we have not treated<br/>
him fairly in passing it by, we will<br/>
now endeavour to do it and him jus-<br/>
tice in regard to the matter. He thinks<br/>
the Bible account of the rainbow is<br/>
so void of scientific accuracy and truth,<br/>
that it is a disgrace to the Book, and<br/>
a standing evidence against the su-<br/>
perlative excellence we claim for it.<br/>
What we have to do then, at the pre-<br/>
sent time, is to prove that so far from<br/>
dishonoring the Bible, that account of<br/>
the rainbow positively honors it, and<br/>
carries within itself evidence that it is<br/>
befitting the infinite God who spoke it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The passage cited by our antago-<br/>
nist may be found in the IX chapter<br/>
of Genesis the 9th and 17th verses<br/>
inclusive. The gist of his criticism<br/>
seems to be, that the Bible makes so<br/>
much of a mere "occular illusion"<br/>
which is not in the cloud nor in fact<br/>
anywhere else, and represents God as<br/>
establishing that utter nothing as a to-<br/>
ken of his covenant with Noah and his<br/>
posterity that there shall "no more be<br/>
a flood to destroy the earth." He fan-<br/>
cies that the author of the Rollo series<br/>
has proved that "there is no rainbow<br/>
at all" and that hence a strong argu-<br/>
ment, can be brought against the Bi-<br/>
ble on this ground. Is it possible that<br/>
our antagonist has from reading the<br/>
Rollo series or by any other means<br/>
come to disbelieve the existence of the<br/>
rainbow? If so, what is there in all<br/>
the world of which his senses take<br/>
cognizance that he will not disbelieve<br/>
for the sake of building an argument<br/>
against the Bible? He is grossly mis-<br/>
taken in concluding that the author of<br/>
the Rollo series taught his pupils the<br/>
[................................]<br/>
[................................]<br/>
ted is saying to her pupils that "there<br/>
is no rainbow, at all" she could not<br/>
have meant that there is nothing real<br/>
in it; for in her explanations of it she<br/>
immediately tells them that "the co-<br/>
lors they saw came from drops of rain<br/>
between them and the gate." Now<br/>
colors are in no sense a non-entity.<br/>
Most certainly they are something,<br/>
though they cannot be grasped and<br/>
handled like most other things. It was<br/>
in this sense, doubtless, that Miss Mary<br/>
intended her remark about the rain-<br/>
bow. It is not a bow as children com-<br/>
monly think it to be, the ends of which<br/>
can be reached and precious jewels<br/>
and other riches found there; but a<br/>
mere etherial display of colors in the<br/>
form of a bow, produced by the reflec-<br/>
tion and refraction of sun-beams<br/>
from an infinity of rain drops in the<br/>
act of falling. That such is the cause<br/>
of the rainbow was known by philos-<br/>
ophers more than 200 years ago. But<br/>
in the providence of God it was re-<br/>
served for the wonderful genius of the<br/>
immortal Sir Isaac Newton to unravel<br/>
all its mysteries, and state clearly all<br/>
the laws or rules by which it is made.<br/>
So that now any ordinary scholar in<br/>
the schools of Christian lands may<br/>
quite well understand them. These<br/>
laws are usually treated of in philoso-<br/>
phical books under the general head<br/>
of Colors in natural objects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rainbow is correctly classed<br/>
with all objects or things of color. It<br/>
is as much a real existence as any<br/>
other thing of color which the eye be-<br/>
holds, for example leaves, flowers, and<br/>
light. Indeed it is light and nothing<br/>
but light, so reflected and refracted<br/>
from pure globules of rain as to form<br/>
the appearance of a bow. The colors<br/>
of every thing we see depend upon the<br/>
kind of rays which it reflects. A set-<br/>
tled law of all bodies that have color<br/>
is that "their colors are not proper-<br/>
ties inherent in the bodies themselves<br/>
by which they immediately effect our<br/>
sight, but are mere consequences of<br/>
that peculiar disposition of the parti-<br/>
cles of each body, by which it is ena-<br/>
bled more copiously to reflect the rays<br/>
of one particular color, and to trans-<br/>
mit, or stifle or, more properly to ab-<br/>
sorb, the others." The light of the<br/>
sun is the great source of all the seven<br/>
primary colors, in all the variety of<br/>
shades of color are made by variously<br/>
combining the primary ones. The<br/>
rainbow displays all the primary co-<br/>
lors in such relations to each other<br/>
that we may distinguish each from<br/>
the other, and see them all admirably<br/>
blending into one another. But most<br/>
objects of color reflect only a part of<br/>
the rays that strike them. Some are<br/>
so constituted as to reflect the violet<br/>
rays or the indigo or pale blue, some<br/>
the green, some the yellow, some the<br/>
red, and others two or more of the se-<br/>
ven colors so blended as to produce<br/>
a variety of colors. All the rays not<br/>
reflected are absorbed and lost in the<br/>
object itself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A mirror reflects all the rays of the<br/>
sun which strike it at a certain angle,<br/>
and hence the dazzling splendor of the<br/>
reflection. When we stand before<br/>
the mirror, rays of light make a per-<br/>
fect picture of our persons on the<br/>
glass, and then that picture is brought<br/>
by reflected rays and perfectly copied<br/>
on the expanded nerve of vision in the<br/>
eye. By the art of photography the<br/>
picture made on the glass is fixed so<br/>
it may be seen there and copied<br/>
from it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A pure glass in the form of a globe<br/>
or a soap bubble will reflect but a part<br/>
of the rays that strike it, while the<br/>
most of them pass through it, and<br/>
others being refracted twice are brought<br/>
to the eye of the spectator in connec-<br/>
tion with the reflected rays, and hence<br/>
the soft rainbow colors that appear by<br/>
the experiment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now rain drops are like glass globes<br/>
or soap bubbles in their power to re-<br/>
flect and refract rays of light. And be-<br/>
cause an infinite number of them are<br/>
concerned in the phenomenon as viewed<br/>
at a certain angle by the eye, the con-<br/>
sequence is the appearance, not of an<br/>
entire circle as that produced by soap<br/>
bubbles, but a segment of a circle<br/>
as we see in the rainbow. Now since<br/>
such is the nature of the rainbow will<br/>
our antagonist still insist that it is an<br/>
utter nothing? He might as well in-<br/>
sist that the pictures of objects mir-<br/>
rored forth by the mirror are nothing,<br/>
that photographic pictures are nothing,<br/>
that all colors are nothing, nay that<br/>
there is no such thing as light.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The laws by which the rainbow are<br/>
constituted were all originally made,<br/>
and are continually kept in operation<br/>
[.........] alone. And we affirm,<br/>
[................................]<br/>
made the rainbow for the express<br/>
purpose of having it a perpetual sign<br/>
between Him and mankind, that He<br/>
will never again destroy the earth by<br/>
a deluge of waters. We believe what<br/>
Moses wrote of the rainbow in the<br/>
book of Genesis, for there is every<br/>
evidence which an honest mind can<br/>
desire, to prove that he wrote the whole<br/>
of that Book under the infallible in-<br/>
spiration of the Holy Spirit of God.<br/>
No uninspired man could have given<br/>
such an account of the creation as he<br/>
gave. And that account has been fully<br/>
and wonderfully substantiated by the<br/>
science of mathematics, and geology, and<br/>
that too in spite of the mighty efforts<br/>
which a large majority of the learned<br/>
in these sciences have made to over-<br/>
throw it. In the account which Mo-<br/>
ses gives of the rainbow there is not<br/>
the least intimation given that the<br/>
celestial arch was ever seen before<br/>
the flood, but contrariwise every ap-<br/>
pearance necessary to lead the reader<br/>
to the conclusion, that it was then<br/>
first ushered into existence as a most<br/>
striking and magnificent sign of pro-<br/>
mise and hope for the comfort and as-<br/>
surance of Noah and all his posterity.<br/>
Though the laws by which it is made<br/>
may have existed from the begin-<br/>
ning of the creation, it does not<br/>
necessarily follow that all the condi-<br/>
tions essential to their producing a<br/>
rainbow existed before that day. It<br/>
is Jehovah alone who brings the drops<br/>
of falling rain into such relations to<br/>
the eyes of men as that they see the<br/>
arch. Our daily experience teaches<br/>
us that He does not do this every time<br/>
it rains, but prefers to have it appear<br/>
only occasionally with intervals some-<br/>
times of weeks and months even when<br/>
the rain falls frequently. If God thus<br/>
prevent its appearance now with such<br/>
long intervals, what man in his senses<br/>
will be so rash as to say it is folly to<br/>
think that he probably did it for the<br/>
longer period of 1600 years before<br/>
Noah's exodus from the Ark?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, had the rainbow been a<br/>
phenomenon of occasional appearance<br/>
before that day, which Noah had seen<br/>
perhaps, a thousand times in his life of<br/>
600 years, it is difficult to perceive how<br/>
he could have been deeply impressed<br/>
by its appearance then as a sign be-<br/>
tween Jehovah and himself. And the<br/>
words by which God established it as a<br/>
sign would not seem to comfort with<br/>
such an interpretation of it. "I do set<br/>
my bow in the cloud and it shall be a<br/>
token of a covenant between me and<br/>
the earth." The idea seems to be that<br/>
it was a new thing under the sun, and<br/>
that God made it that day. "And it<br/>
shall come to pass" said Jehovah<br/>
"when I bring a cloud over the earth<br/>
that the bow shall be seen in the cloud."<br/>
Now had it been seen many times be-<br/>
fore, and had it become a common oc-<br/>
currence as now, where would be the<br/>
propriety of giving a promise that it<br/>
should appear in the cloud in the fu-<br/>
ture? for that would be an occurrence<br/>
of course as it always had been. But<br/>
if that were the first time the bow ap-<br/>
peared, then the promise of its con-<br/>
tinuance became peculiarly necessary<br/>
and comforting. And such, we may<br/>
add, would seem to be the natural im-<br/>
pression produced in the minds of all<br/>
unsophisticated readers of that narra-<br/>
tive, who have no theory to support<br/>
contrary to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, there is much reason for the<br/>
opinion of many of the most learned<br/>
geologists, philologists, and mathemati-<br/>
cians, among whom are La Place,<br/>
Cuvier and Humboldt, that during all<br/>
the period of 1600 years before the<br/>
flood there was no rain in any part of<br/>
the earth, that the temperature of all<br/>
the present zones of the globe was uni-<br/>
formly mild throughout the whole<br/>
year, and that consequently there was<br/>
nothing to disturb the universal equili-<br/>
brium, and that hence the usual cau-<br/>
ses of rain must have been wanting.<br/>
That such was the fact they think is<br/>
demonstrated by the remarkably even<br/>
distribution of fossil remains of plants<br/>
and animals in all parts of the earth<br/>
as well in the frozen as in the frigid<br/>
and temperate zones. Now this dis-<br/>
covery of science independent of what<br/>
Moses wrote of that time, and with no<br/>
intention of supporting Moses by it, is<br/>
now found to be in wonderful harmo-<br/>
ny with the few words he says about<br/>
rain in the antediluvian age. His<br/>
words are "The Lord had not caused<br/>
it to rain upon the earth, but there<br/>
went up a mist and watered the whole<br/>
face of the ground." Now if it be true<br/>
that there was no rain before the flood,<br/>
then it follows that there was no rain-<br/>
bows, and that splendid token of<br/>
[.....................] and every to<br/>
mankind was first made after the flood<br/>
and for that express purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That there was a great change at<br/>
the time of the deluge, producing vi-<br/>
cissitudes of seasons with their usual<br/>
and natural accompaniments of winds<br/>
clouds and rain, seems to be clearly<br/>
intimated in the account which Moses<br/>
gave of it; for he represents Jehovah<br/>
as having promised Noah that "while<br/>
the earth remaineth seed time and<br/>
harvest, and cold and heat, and sum-<br/>
mer and winter and day and night<br/>
shall not cease." 'The temperature<br/>
of the earth having undergone' says<br/>
Lord Rosse, 'this great change, which<br/>
modern science has discovered, and<br/>
cold winds and clouds having suc-<br/>
ceeded that ardent and serene sky<br/>
which universally prevailed in the<br/>
antedeluvian age, man would natural-<br/>
ly feel great apprehensions at such a<br/>
change lest the earth might become<br/>
more and more refrigerated, and lest<br/>
the corn should gradually decay<br/>
and deprive him of every means of<br/>
supporting his existence; therefore,<br/>
to him at this awful epoch with this<br/>
encouraging assurance" that "seed<br/>
time and harvest and cold and heat,<br/>
and summer, and winter, and day and<br/>
night shall not cease" as long as the<br/>
earth remaineth. Here then, we again<br/>
see, the discoveries of science and the<br/>
words of the divine writer going as it<br/>
were hand in hand in the accounts which<br/>
they afford of the primitive era. Is<br/>
it then necessary once more to ask<br/>
the reader how it was possible for<br/>
Moses thus to have fashioned his his-<br/>
tory of such a period so as to render<br/>
it in so many particulars, conforms-<br/>
ble to the facts which science has re-<br/>
cently discovered, if what he wrote was<br/>
a mere invention of his own fancy?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The truth is Moses wrote as the<br/>
Almighty and all-wise maker of the<br/>
universe by His Spirit dictate! to him,<br/>
and hence no discoveries of science<br/>
has ever detected the least error in<br/>
his writings; and we may rest assured<br/>
that they never can. And hence his<br/>
account of the rainbow is an accurate<br/>
account, and worthy of the all-wise<br/>
God who taught him what to write.<br/>
What though the rainbow be not<br/>
strictly in the cloud, but between the<br/>
observer and the cloud? Does it not<br/>
always appear to be in the cloud in<br/>
the same sense that the sun always<br/>
appears to rise and set? Is it not pro-<br/>
per for God to use such popular lan-<br/>
guage in speaking to men? Do not<br/>
the most scientifical and learned men,<br/>
in speaking of the rising and setting<br/>
of the sun and of the rainbow use<br/>
words adapted to the appearance and<br/>
not in strict accord with science?<br/>
Does not even our learned antagonist<br/>
always do so in speaking to his chil-<br/>
dren and to all others? Why then<br/>
should he ridicule the Word of God<br/>
because it is written in popular lan-<br/>
guage, speaking of the physical world<br/>
according as it naturally appears to<br/>
men and not as a treatise on science<br/>
would speak of them? Has he not yet<br/>
learned that the Bible was written<br/>
solely for the purpose of teaching true<br/>
and undefiled religion, that is, the knowl-<br/>
edge and service and enjoyment of<br/>
the true God? Has he yet to learn<br/>
that this knowledge is a light to the<br/>
soul far more important for the welfare<br/>
of mankind than the natural sun?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In concluding this long article we<br/>
beg to ask His Siamese Majesty if we<br/>
have not now been faithful in meeting<br/>
his objection and made it sufficiently<br/>
clear that the rainbow is a magnifi-<br/>
cent and most befitting sign, which<br/>
Jehovah made for the express pur-<br/>
pose of being a perpetual token of his<br/>
covenant with Noah and all his pos-<br/>
terity? Could there have been any<br/>
other more suitable and more worthy<br/>
of a God of love, and of a conspicuous<br/>
place as such in the Book of his love?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Horrible Scene.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While spending a few days in the<br/>
charming city of Petchaburee a little<br/>
more than a year since we were invited<br/>
to attend the cremation of the body of a<br/>
man in the medium walks of life. He<br/>
had been a near neighbor to the friends<br/>
with whom we were stopping, and had<br/>
died two or three days before. We<br/>
had never witnessed a like scene of<br/>
horror in this heathen country, al-<br/>
though we had been residents in it<br/>
more than thirty years. We had<br/>
heard of its being a common occurrence<br/>
in the country, but had not dreamed<br/>
of the half of its horrors. It seemed to<br/>
us quite strange that our eyes should<br/>
first behold it in the precincts of His<br/>
Majesty's lovely mountain palace, and<br/>
in a town above all others by nature<br/>
powerfully inviting to all lovely deeds.<br/>
In this are verified the words of Bishop<br/>
Heber.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Though every prospect pleases<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And only man is vile"<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The corpse was first to be offered to<br/>
a flock of vultures—-a hundred or<br/>
more. Before the coffin was opened<br/>
the filthy and horrible gang had assem-<br/>
bled, "for where soever the the carcass<br/>
is there will the eagles ( vultures ) be<br/>
gathered together"—-They were perch-<br/>
ed on the ridges of the temple build-<br/>
ings, and even on small trees and bush-<br/>
es, within a dozen feet of the body.<br/>
They were so exceedingly hungry for<br/>
their morning meal that the sexton and<br/>
his assistants had to beat them off many<br/>
times from improper interference with<br/>
the various preliminary services that<br/>
must be had ere the coffin could be open-<br/>
ed. And when in the act of opening it,<br/>
the vultures, seeming to be aware that<br/>
there would be but a mouthful for each,<br/>
and very doubtful at that, if divided<br/>
among them all and a herd of greedy<br/>
dogs besides that were waiting for their<br/>
opportunity—-they swooped down in<br/>
great excitement to have the first bite.<br/>
It required many assistants to scare<br/>
them off until all was ready. The body<br/>
was taken out of the coffin and laid on<br/>
a little pile of wood that had been ar-<br/>
ranged on a small temporary altar<br/>
erected for the purpose. Being thus<br/>
made ready the birds were allowed to<br/>
descend upon the corpse and tear from<br/>
it as they liked. It was for a few<br/>
moments quite hidden by their rush<br/>
upon it. But it required only a mo-<br/>
ment for each bird, when once the way<br/>
was open for him, to grab up his part<br/>
with both bill and talons, when he<br/>
would spread his wings and mount up<br/>
to some quiet place for eating it. The<br/>
sexton seemed to consider that he too<br/>
was making merit by cutting off parts<br/>
of the body and throwing them to the<br/>
emaciated dogs round about the altar,<br/>
as the departed spirit of the dead man<br/>
had done in bequeathing his body to<br/>
vultures and dogs. The birds, not<br/>
satisfied with what they could get from<br/>
the altar, came down and quarrelled<br/>
with the dogs for a little of their share.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While this was going on for the<br/>
space of about fifteen minutes, the<br/>
mourners stood, waiting with wax<br/>
candles and incense sticks in hand to<br/>
pay their last tribute of respect to the<br/>
deceased by assisting in the burning<br/>
of the bones that were left after the<br/>
vultures and the dogs had made them<br/>
bare as they could. The sexton with<br/>
the assistance of another man then<br/>
gathered up the skeleton and put it back<br/>
into the coffin. This was then taken<br/>
up by four men and carried around the<br/>
funeral pile three times. It was then<br/>
laid on the top of the wood, and a few<br/>
sticks of wood were put into the coffin<br/>
to aid in burning the bones. Then a<br/>
lighted torch was applied to the wood.<br/>
Next the relatives and other mourners<br/>
stepped up and laid each a wax candle<br/>
by the torch. Others brought incense<br/>
sticks and laid them on the pile. Hav-<br/>
ing thus performed their last tribute<br/>
of respect for the dead, the friends re-<br/>
tired from the scene.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vultures, having had but a scanty<br/>
breakfast, lingered around the place<br/>
until they were sure the fire would<br/>
leave nothing more for them, when they<br/>
shook their hideous heads, and hop-<br/>
ping a few steps to get up a little mo-<br/>
mentum, as they always do, flapped<br/>
their shaggy wings and flew away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vultures are certainly the most odi-<br/>
ous birds that were ever made. They<br/>
are always of a dirty carrion complex-<br/>
ion, and their heads always bald and of a<br/>
dirty white, excepting a few of their<br/>
leaders whose heads are red like a male<br/>
turkey. Their necks are but scantily<br/>
fledged with a down that was in-<br/>
tended to be white, but is always<br/>
odiously dirty. They are all of a purple<br/>
putrid color, and apparently equal in<br/>
size, being about that of a common<br/>
hen turkey.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bird which lives upon dead bodies<br/>
as the vultures do is of course looked<br/>
upon by the heathen with many slavish<br/>
and fearful superstitions. They are<br/>
regarded as the bearers of death war-<br/>
rants to some one or more of the family<br/>
occupying the house on which they<br/>
alight. These warrants can be avert-<br/>
ed only by offerings of incense sticks,<br/>
flowers and parched rice, and these<br/>
while thought oftentimes efficacious<br/>
are known to fall about as frequently.<br/>
Hence the advent of vultures to the<br/>
ridge of one's house is always regarded<br/>
as a sad event.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is accounted a very great sin to kill<br/>
vultures. And the reason is, that they<br/>
themselves never kill animals and are<br/>
so strict in carrying out their determina-<br/>
tion not to do so, as to prefer to live<br/>
always on putrid meat. They afford<br/>
an illustrious example of Budd[h]'s pre-<br/>
cept never to kill animals of any kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had supposed that such a dis-<br/>
position of dead human bodies was re-<br/>
served only for the greatest criminals.<br/>
But we learned then that many of the<br/>
country people, even of the most re-<br/>
spectable classes make an offering of<br/>
the bodies of their dead to the vultures<br/>
under the superstitious notion that they<br/>
make peculiar merit by the act, both<br/>
in behalf of the departed spirit of the<br/>
dead and of themselves. Some persons,<br/>
knowing that they are soon to die, give<br/>
orders that their flesh be given to the<br/>
vultures, hoping by it to gain some<br/>
merit in a future state. O that this<br/>
deluded people might know and choose<br/>
the true way to obtain merit, and a<br/>
happy and glorious eternity!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CRICKET FIGHTING.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whilst walking through the bazaar<br/>
the other day a peculiar grating sound<br/>
constantly met my ears which seemed<br/>
familiar to me, but still I could not<br/>
think of the cause. Upon looking a-<br/>
round, however, I was reminded that<br/>
it is the Cricket-season. Not that<br/>
athletic and useful-game which is so<br/>
much practiced in England and Ame-<br/>
rica, but the season for fighting crick-<br/>
ets. Such is the propensity of this<br/>
people for gaming, that they often-<br/>
times descend as low as it is possible to<br/>
get. It might be supposed that cock<br/>
fighting was about as low as it is pos-<br/>
sible to get in that line, but the Siam-<br/>
ese descend still lower than that,<br/>
and fight birds and crickets. After<br/>
the rains commence a small black<br/>
cricket (I think the grygllus hemip-<br/>
tera) becomes very pleaty. The boys<br/>
search for these little creatures, by<br/>
tearing up the old brick walks and<br/>
digging in the loose ground. They<br/>
make a small box of tough mud plac-<br/>
ing wooden bars in the upperside so<br/>
that the crickets can be put in, and<br/>
taken out at pleasure. These boxes,<br/>
each one containing a cricket, are ex-<br/>
posed for sale, at many of the stalls in<br/>
the market. When they wish to have<br/>
a fight two strangers are put together<br/>
in the same box, and the little fellows<br/>
pitch into each other with wonderful<br/>
pluck. Considerable sums of money are<br/>
often staked on favorite crickets. The<br/>
sport, too, is not confined to boys but it is<br/>
said that even noblemen engage in it.<br/>
There is scarcely any thing more in-<br/>
jurious to Siam to-day than this unusual<br/>
disposition to sport by all classes. In-<br/>
deed there is no more useless class of<br/>
society the world over than sporting<br/>
gentlemen. That class of persons so<br/>
numerous in Europe and America<br/>
usually denominated turfites are only<br/>
carrying out this same disposition on<br/>
a larger scale. {{< news/indent4 >}} SCRIBBLER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
THE RED LIME WORKS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the customs of the Siamese,<br/>
and also of some other Oriental na-<br/>
tions, there is scarcely any thing more<br/>
disgusting to the eyes of a European,<br/>
than the chewing of the areca nut,<br/>
in connection with the seri leaf, lime,<br/>
tobacco &c. A red saliva is continu-<br/>
ally oozing from their mouths, which<br/>
contaminates almost every thing with<br/>
which they come in contact. I have<br/>
seen women cooking rice, and prepar-<br/>
ing victuals for the family, with their<br/>
fingers all daubed with the red saliva.<br/>
Occasionally too, they would stop in<br/>
the midst of their work, and put their<br/>
fingers into their mouth, in order to<br/>
give the quid a peculiar turn. I heard<br/>
an officer in the English navy remark<br/>
not long since, that he considered some<br/>
of the Siamese women rather pretty,<br/>
at first sight, but when he came to<br/>
look at their mouth it all vanished, and<br/>
they became disgusting to him. This<br/>
practice is almost universal here, by<br/>
all classes and by both sexes. When<br/>
asked why they do it, the almost uni-<br/>
versal answer is, that it is to prevent<br/>
the mouth, and teeth from giving out<br/>
an offensive smell. Of course it does<br/>
kill any offensive smell coming from<br/>
the breath or teeth, but the cure is<br/>
more offensive than the disease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The preparation of the lime for this<br/>
purpose, like almost every thing else in<br/>
Siam is of course a monopoly. The<br/>
work, however, except the burning of<br/>
the lime, is done principally by Pe-<br/>
guan women. The establishment is<br/>
on the bank of the river above the<br/>
city, adjoining the Rong Lao, dis-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tillery. The lime stones are brought<br/>
from a distance, principally from the<br/>
Meklong, and are burned in a primitive<br/>
kiln, not unlike those formerly used<br/>
in western countries. Near the kiln<br/>
are a number of round vats, built with<br/>
brick and mortar, and resembling one<br/>
half of a hogshead, which has been cut<br/>
in two. These vats are built adjoining<br/>
each other. Occasionally by the side<br/>
of one of the larger vats, is one very<br/>
much smaller, but of similiar shape.<br/>
In a place adjoining the vats a num-<br/>
ber of women may be found pound-<br/>
ing the turmeric root, in a kind of<br/>
mortar, and working the hammers<br/>
with their feet. They then take some<br/>
of the pulverized turmeric root, and<br/>
put it into the small vat adjoining the<br/>
larger ones, and pour some water over<br/>
it. They then take a basket of un-<br/>
slaked lime, and put it in also, and by<br/>
the time the lime is slaked, the mix-<br/>
ture has assumed a beautiful crimson<br/>
colour. The mixture is then taken<br/>
out of the small vat, and strained<br/>
through a cloth into one of the larger<br/>
ones, and it is then passed from one<br/>
to the other, by means of bamboo<br/>
spouts. After it has dried down to a<br/>
proper thickness, it is peddled out by<br/>
women in boats, together with other<br/>
articles for sale, and sometimes the<br/>
boat has nothing but the lime itself.<br/>
Quantities of it are sent off in boats,<br/>
and small junks down the coast, and<br/>
to other places throughout the king-<br/>
dom. A very small quantity of it<br/>
spread on the seri leaf, is sufficient to<br/>
give the whole mouthful of areca to-<br/>
bacco &c. a proper colour and tone.<br/>
A quantity of it together in the vats,<br/>
presents a very pretty appearance and<br/>
reminds one of ice cream coloured<br/>
with straw berries.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Birth.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At her residence in this city on the<br/>
18th inst. Mrs. Bateman, wife of S.<br/>
Bateman Esqr. Secretary to His Ex-<br/>
cellency the Prime Minister, of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At his residence in this city, on the<br/>
9th inst. Phya P'et-pance of a chronic<br/>
disease from which he had suffered<br/>
nearly six months. The cremation of<br/>
his body took place at Temple Sa-<br/>
kate on Monday the 21st inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Deceased was one of the Siamese<br/>
judges connected with the foreign de-<br/>
partment, and has been reported to us<br/>
for publication in the "Siamese Re-<br/>
corder" as a blameless man in his offi-<br/>
cial capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very sorry to hear that<br/>
Phya Montree Sôôriwang the younger<br/>
own brother of His Excellency Chow<br/>
Phya Kralahôme the Prime Minister is<br/>
dangerously sick of acute dysentery.<br/>
He has been ill several weeks, and till<br/>
quite recently, entirely under the me-<br/>
dical care of native physicians. Being<br/>
by them pronounced incurable, he has<br/>
placed himself in the hands of Doctor<br/>
Campbell R. N. We greatly fear it is<br/>
too late for any human skill to effect<br/>
a cure. The patient, it will be re-<br/>
membered, was at the head of the Si-<br/>
amese Embassy to London in 1857.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is still a time of great quietness<br/>
in all the outward manifestation of<br/>
this people. There is but little stir in<br/>
any department of business. There<br/>
are three steam rice mills running<br/>
much the greater part of the time.<br/>
The 4th mill, we think, is not yet quite<br/>
ready to begin operations. We are<br/>
informed that rice producers are be-<br/>
coming more and more inclined to sell<br/>
their paddy for hulling at these mills<br/>
rather than hull it themselves by the<br/>
tedious native process. There is every<br/>
prospect that steam rice mills will, not<br/>
long hence, drive the native mills into<br/>
oblivion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steam saw mills are more slow in<br/>
getting into power here; but they are<br/>
surely making progress, and will, with-<br/>
out doubt, ere long annihilate the pre-<br/>
sent plan of sawing wholly by the<br/>
strength of human muscles unaided by<br/>
the least machinery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are now in port only 10 for-<br/>
eign vessels to compete with 54 fine<br/>
square rigged brigs, barques, and<br/>
ships. But it is reported that many of<br/>
the Siamese and Chinese owners of<br/>
these vessels, are beginning to think<br/>
that they have quite over done their<br/>
business in that line, and that it would<br/>
have been more profitable for them to<br/>
have bought a less number of foreign<br/>
vessels and relied more on chartering<br/>
from foreigners, as the losses by wear,<br/>
tear and wreck, and dishonest servants<br/>
and agents often consumes all the profit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is interesting to contrast the pre-<br/>
sent state of shipping in port with<br/>
what was the usual appearance this<br/>
season of the year on the river, and<br/>
at the anchorage over the bar 30 years<br/>
ago. Then there were two lines of<br/>
monstrous Junks engaged in the<br/>
China trade at anchor in the river<br/>
numbering from 60 to 80. Now there<br/>
are not more than 3 or 4, and these<br/>
are so far behind the times as to be-<br/>
come curiosities. There are from 80<br/>
to 100 small native junks used as<br/>
lighters and for country trading. Besid-<br/>
es these there are a few of a little larger<br/>
size which trade between this and<br/>
Hainan. The large China Junks al-<br/>
ways left sometime in June and re-<br/>
turned in January or February taking<br/>
all possible advantage of the monsoons.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}RICE—Common cargo, Tic. 46½ P coyan<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Fair " " 51 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Good " " 56 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Clean " " 64 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" do Garden " 77 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}White No. 1 " " 78 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " 77 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Mill cleaned " " 2½ P picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}PADDY—Nassan " " 31 P coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Namuang " " 45 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SUGAR—Superior " " P 12 " picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" White No. 1 " " 11½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 10⅞ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 3 " " 10⅞ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Brown " 1 " 7 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " 6⅓ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BLACK PEPPER " " 9½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BUFFALO HIDES " " 11 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}COW do " " 15 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}DEER do " " 11 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BUFFALO HORNS " " 12½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}COW do " " 15½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}DEER do " " 8½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GUMBENJAMIN No. 1 " " 210 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 135 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TIN " " 1 " " 39 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 37 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}HEMP " " 1 " " 22 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 20½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GAMBOGH " " 55 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SILK—Korat " " 235 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Cochin China " " 800 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Cambodia " " 640 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}STICKLAC—No. 1 " " 16⅓ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 15 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}CARDAMUMS—Best " " 212 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Bastard " " 82½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SAPANWOOD—3@4 p. " " 8½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 4@5 " " 8⅓ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 5@6 " " 8 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}LUK KRABOW SEED " " 2½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}IVORY—4 pieces " " 350 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 5 " " 340 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 6 " " 330 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 7 " " 320 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 18@20 " " 255 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}DRIED FISH—Plabeng " " 8 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Plaslit " " 5½ " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TEAKWOOD " " 10 " P Yok<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}ROSEWOOD—No. 1 " " 205 P 100 pls.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 175 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 3 " " 155 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}REDWOOD " " 1 " " 240 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 2 " " 150 " do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}MATRAGH " " 8 " P 100<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GOLDLEAF—Tic. 16½ " Ticals weight.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}EXCHANGE—On Singapore par 10 d.s.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Hongkong 2½ cent discount 30 d.s. Lon-<br/>
don 4s. 9½d. ฿ 6. m.s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS.—There are few foreign ves-<br/>
sels in port, and we hear of no new chart-<br/>
ers. The following vessels have sailed<br/>
since the 1st inst. principally loaded on<br/>
the owners account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. bark "Atma" for Hongkong with<br/>
4890 pls. rice, 16 pls. tin, 107 pls. mussels,<br/>
Total value ฿ 37,906.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese schooner "Maria" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 3200 pls. rice, 32 pls. sapanwood,<br/>
232 pls. hemp, 240 pls. salt fish, 14 pls.<br/>
gamboge, 220 pieces teak plank. Total<br/>
value ฿ 12,060.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese ship "Shooting Star" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 10059 pls. rice, 915 pls. sapan-<br/>
wood, 278 pls. peas, 25 pls. salt fish. Total<br/>
value ฿ 26,630.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese bark "Tye Watt" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 6600 pls. rice, 1108 pls. paddy,<br/>
700 pls. sugar, 1466 pls. sapanwood, 150<br/>
pls. peas, 521 pls. pepper, 212 pls. tin, 850<br/>
pls. teelseed, 150 pls. hemp, 150 pls. hides,<br/>
250 pls. salt fish, 8 pls. ivory. Total value<br/>
฿ 39,680.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese Steamer "Chow Phya" for<br/>
Singapore with 1921 pls. rice, 956 pls. sug-<br/>
ar, 489 pls. sapanwood, 58 pls. peas, 48 pls.<br/>
rawsilk, 200 pls. hides, 50 pls. horns, 1365<br/>
pls. salt fish, 11 pls. ivory. Total value ฿ 37,<br/>
680.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner "Water Lily" for Sing-<br/>
apore with 87 pls. rice, 300 pls. sapanwood,<br/>
125 pls. sugar, 19 pls. raw silk, 20 pls. teel-<br/>
seed, 115 pls. horns, 217 pls. salt fish, 22<br/>
pls. gumbenjamin, 4 pls. ivory, 8 pls. gam-<br/>
boge, 297 pls. sticklac, 250 pieces teak<br/>
plank. Total value ฿ 16,891.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese bark "Senator" for Hongkong<br/>
with 3481 pls. rice, 125 pls. sugar, 109 pls.<br/>
peas, 37 pls. hemp, 146 pls. hides, 6 pls.<br/>
salt fish, 268 pieces teak plank, 890 pls.<br/>
rosewood, 96 pls. mangrove bark. Total<br/>
value ฿ 11,516.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian brig "Catherina" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 3405 pls. rice, 45 pls. sapanwood.<br/>
Total value ฿ 9,978.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese ship "Handy" for Hongkong<br/>
with 11500 pls. rice, 913 pls. sugar, 1360<br/>
pls. sapanwood, 391 pls. peas, 900 pls. pep-<br/>
per, 23 pls. tin, 60 pls. teelseed, 65 pls.<br/>
hemp, 60 pls. hides, 10 pls. horns, 118 pls.<br/>
salt fish, 8 pls. cardamums, (best). Total<br/>
value ฿ 38,885.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese bark "Advance" for Hongkong<br/>
with 4448 pls. rice, 106 pls. sapanwood,<br/>
233 pls. teelseed, 469 pls. salt fish. Total<br/>
value $18,615.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch bark "H. Ludaine" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 8567 pls. rice, 44 pls. sugar, 560<br/>
pls. sapanwood, 30 pls. pepper. Total value<br/>
$21,864.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese ship "Moonlight" for Hong-<br/>
kong with 750 pls. rice, 1400 pls. sapan-<br/>
wood, 1150 pls. pepper, 500 pls. tealseed,<br/>
400 pls. mussels, 1500 pls. rosewood. Total<br/>
value $16,800.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Postscript
QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A ball was given at H. B. M. Con-<br/>
sulate last night to celebrate the an-<br/>
niversary of Her Majesty's birthday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dancing commenced about nine<br/>
o'clock, and was kept up with great<br/>
spirit till twelve, when the party ad-<br/>
journed to the supper room. After sup-<br/>
per dancing recommenced and con-<br/>
tinued till half past three.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The assembly then broke up, and<br/>
the guests took their departure highly<br/>
satisfied with their evening's entertain-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The band of H. E. the Kralahome,<br/>
which had been kindly lent for the<br/>
occasion, performed with more than<br/>
ordinary skill: and contributed not a<br/>
little to the general pleasure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok May 25th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Sponge and what it is.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The very sponge which washes your face<br/>
was brought up from the bottom of the<br/>
ocean, and was part of a living animal.<br/>
For a long time sponges were supposed to<br/>
be plants—-Messrs. Agassiz and Gould, in<br/>
1848, called them so; but later observation<br/>
has decided them to be animals; and they<br/>
are placed in the class Protozoa, the class<br/>
most resembling plants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When first found in the water, their ap-<br/>
pearance is very different from this which<br/>
you now see. This is the skeleton only, the<br/>
part corresponding to our bones. When this<br/>
was a complete living thing, deep down<br/>
under the ocean, it was covered all over the<br/>
outside, and filled in every one of those lit-<br/>
tle holes with a soft substance, something<br/>
like the white of an egg, and this was like<br/>
our flesh. It was fastened tightly to a rock;<br/>
and its color was a dull bluish black on the<br/>
upper side, and a dirty white below. It was<br/>
formerly supposed to be a plant, because it<br/>
was always fast in one place; but, for<br/>
other reasons, it is decidedly an animal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All through this mass is a regular circu-<br/>
lation like our blood and food. It has been<br/>
seen to absorb nutritious matter-—that is,<br/>
to eat, or rather to drink. You see all over<br/>
its surface, orifices or holes: these commu-<br/>
nicate with each other all throughout. In-<br/>
to the largest of these, called pores, the sea-<br/>
water is constantly entering, and out thro-<br/>
ugh the small ones, called vents, it is re-<br/>
gularly spouted out; and it doubtless<br/>
finds in this sea-water minute animals<br/>
which serve it for food, and increase its<br/>
bulk. And this odd creature produces<br/>
others like itself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the soft part a little globule is seen<br/>
to float off—and, after moving about for a<br/>
while very briskly, here and there, as if<br/>
looking for a place, it fastens itself to some<br/>
rock. Next, gradually, begins to be seen<br/>
the more solid skeleton, the soft part grows<br/>
more bulky, and thus it grows; not very<br/>
slowly, either, for the divers find it, at the<br/>
end of three years, large enough to carry<br/>
away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To get these sponges from the bottom of<br/>
the ocean, furnishes occupation for a great<br/>
number of people. One thousand men are<br/>
busy in the Ottoman archipelago alone—-<br/>
and thousands, besides, with many hun-<br/>
dred boats, are engaged in the Gulf of Mac-<br/>
hri, on the Barbary coast and elsewhere;<br/>
so that in many villages, from May till Sep-<br/>
tember, the best diving time, only old men,<br/>
women, and children can be found.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The finest kind is brought from the<br/>
Ægean Sea. At daylight there, in the sum-<br/>
mer time, when the weather is pleasant<br/>
(for it requires smooth water), the boats,<br/>
each with six or eight men and one pair of<br/>
oars, will leave the shore, and proceed to<br/>
where the water is eight, or ten, or even<br/>
thirty fathoms deep—-for those found in<br/>
shallow water are very inferior.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here they stop, and the divers prepare<br/>
to descend. Each one puts a hoop around<br/>
his neck, and to this fastens a bag in which<br/>
the sponges are put as they are gathered.<br/>
In very deep water the diver uses a rope,<br/>
with a heavy stone to it. He sinks the stone<br/>
to the spot he intends to reach, and thus<br/>
it holds the rope steadily, which he uses to<br/>
assist himself in coming up again to the<br/>
surface.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After being busy thus till noon, they re-<br/>
turn to some of those pleasant little nooks,<br/>
which abound on the shores of the archi-<br/>
pelago, to prepare what they have gathered<br/>
fit for sale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first thing is to press on the soft<br/>
part of the animal, and then to bleach the<br/>
remainder in the sun; so they beat them,<br/>
and stamp on them, and trample them,<br/>
till there is no more life left. The skele-<br/>
ton part is then washed and spread in the<br/>
sun, until it is quite clean, and grown to<br/>
be this dull yellowish color; then it is<br/>
packed in bags and sent to market for<br/>
sale—-sent in all parts of Asia, Europe,<br/>
and America, and used for washing pur-<br/>
poses.—The PACIFIC
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Not a "Developed"
Angle Worm.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Stein, a German professor, has<br/>
recently summed up the progress and<br/>
attainment of knowledge of the "infusorial<br/>
animals," or the lowest forms of animal<br/>
life, such as are seen in the liquids by<br/>
the help of a microscope. The conclu-<br/>
sions are adverse to the theory of Darwin<br/>
of the creation of animal life from veg-<br/>
itable matter, and its steady growth or<br/>
development upward to the highest forms<br/>
or existence, even to man. Dr. Stein<br/>
says all infusoria are supplied with special<br/>
inner propagating organs, that it is in-<br/>
credible that they are created in any other<br/>
way, that they are only brought forth in<br/>
like forms of the same species, that un-<br/>
der no circumstances are they developed<br/>
from inert matter, and that no human<br/>
experiment ever has or ever can produce<br/>
the simplest living atom. How the first<br/>
forms of each species are brought into<br/>
being is a secret that no science has yet<br/>
solved, and probably never can; but it<br/>
is proved that all life comes from life,<br/>
and it must be content with that achieve-<br/>
ment. Dr. Stein reconciles his conclusions<br/>
with the frequent phenomenon that small<br/>
animal life appears among vegitable mat-<br/>
ter put in water, and even in apparently<br/>
pure rain water itself, by stating that it<br/>
has been discovered that the infusorial<br/>
animals have the capacity of changing<br/>
into a passive state, and shrinking and<br/>
hardening into petty capsules, like in-<br/>
finitesimal bits of vegetable matter, and<br/>
in this form are attached to grass, earth,<br/>
or other substances, and go along with them<br/>
into water, or are washed into it, and be-<br/>
ing therein are re-vivified, and multiply.<br/>
Another peculiarity of these simple forms<br/>
of animal life is, that some, if not all of<br/>
them, are multiplied by dividing them-<br/>
selves in two. Under the protection of<br/>
these antagonistic conclusions to the Dar-<br/>
winian theory, man may hold himself in<br/>
new self-respect, as a distinct, original<br/>
creation—-"in the very image of God"<br/>
—-and not a "reconstructed," overgrown<br/>
bit of decayed grass—a step from the<br/>
monkey, and only a pair of stairs above<br/>
an angle-worm.—-SPRINGFIELD REPUB-<br/>
LICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gov. Brownlow on
REPRESENTATION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gov. Brownlow writes to Schuyler Col-<br/>
fax urging the admission to Congress of<br/>
the members-elect from Tennessee, but he<br/>
adds the following striking statement:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"If the removal of the federal troops<br/>
from Tennessee must necessarily follow<br/>
upon the admission of our Congressional<br/>
delegation to their seats, why then, and in<br/>
that case, the loyal men of Tennessee hay<br/>
to be without representatives in Congress.<br/>
But our members can be admitted, and a<br/>
military force retained sufficient to govern<br/>
and control the rebellious. I tell you, and<br/>
through you all whom it may concern, that<br/>
without a law to disfranchise rebels, and a<br/>
force to carry out the provisions of that<br/>
law, this state will pass into the hands of<br/>
the rebels, and a terrible state of affairs is<br/>
bound to follow. Union men will be driven<br/>
from the state, forced to sacrifice what they<br/>
have, and seek homes elsewhere. And yet<br/>
Tennessee is in a much better condition<br/>
than any of the other revolted states, and<br/>
affords a stronger loyal population."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate of Tennessee has voted its<br/>
adhesion to THE SAME VIEW OF THE PRE-<br/>
SENT PERILS TO THE LOYALISTS OF THAT<br/>
TATE.—N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
GOOD FOR KENTUCKY.—In the House,<br/>
on Friday, Mr. McKee, of Kentucky, made<br/>
a brave speech in favor of the Constitu-<br/>
tional Amendment introduced by the joint<br/>
committee on reconstruction, in which he<br/>
said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Those who were in favor amending<br/>
the Constitution were met by those gentle-<br/>
men with the cry of usurpation, because<br/>
Representatives from the rebellious states<br/>
were not admitted to the floor. But why<br/>
sent the Southern Representatives from<br/>
this hall? They departed of their own ac-<br/>
cord, going out one by one, and state by<br/>
state. They picked up their hats and walk-<br/>
ed out in disgust. They wanted no part<br/>
in the legislation of the nation, and said<br/>
they would never come back again. He<br/>
thanked God they were not now here. They<br/>
had no right to be heard. He did not de-<br/>
sire to see the day when a traitor could<br/>
ask to come back and have the same rights<br/>
as those who upheld our banner in the<br/>
field. The pending amendment did not go<br/>
so far as he desired. He would like, for<br/>
one, to say that no man who had raised his<br/>
hand against the state should ever partici-<br/>
pate in our legislation. The reason the<br/>
South were not allowed Representatives<br/>
was that the people had not shown a loyal<br/>
spirit, such as would justify their admis-<br/>
sion. They elect men more odious, while<br/>
the latter ask for admission with their<br/>
hands rocking with the blood of loyalists.<br/>
Let them send men here, who during the<br/>
war, have stood by the country, elect men<br/>
who never went into treason, and reject<br/>
the odious traitors. Never, so help him<br/>
God, until then would he admit them."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are some Northern Representa-<br/>
tives in Congress whose claims upon the<br/>
respect and confidence of their true-heart-<br/>
ed constituents would be augmented if they<br/>
could find courage to act and talk like this<br/>
Representative from Kentucky.{{< news/indent2 >}}N. Y. I.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—Peace is usually found in the line<br/>
of duty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The easiest and best way to ex-<br/>
pand the chest is to have a good heart<br/>
in it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Why They Didn't go to
Church
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A curious man who keeps a note of all<br/>
he hears, has given to the public six<br/>
months of excuses for not attending<br/>
church. They are as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Overslept myself ; could not dress in<br/>
time ; too cold ; too hot ; too windy ; too<br/>
dusty ; too wet ; too damp ; too sunny ;<br/>
too cloudy ; don't feel disposed ; no time<br/>
to myself ; look over my drawer ; put my<br/>
papers to right ; letters to write to friends ;<br/>
mean to take a walk ; going to take a<br/>
ride ; tied to business six days a week ;<br/>
no fresh air but on Sunday can't breathe<br/>
in church ; always so dull ; feel a little<br/>
feverish ; feel a little chilly ; feel a little<br/>
sleepy ; feel a little lazy ; expect company<br/>
to dinner ; got a headache ; intend nurs-<br/>
ing my self to-day ; new bonnet not<br/>
come home ; tore my muslin dress down<br/>
stairs ; got a new novel, must be returned<br/>
on Monday morning ; wasn't shaved in<br/>
time ; don't like the liturgy, always pray-<br/>
ing for the same thing ; don't like the<br/>
extempore prayer ; don't like an organ,<br/>
'tis too noisy ; don't like the singing with-<br/>
out music, makes me nervous ; the spirit<br/>
is willing but the flesh is weak ; dislike<br/>
an extemporary sermon, it is too frothy ;<br/>
can't bear a written sermon, it is too pro-<br/>
sy ; nobody to-day but our own preacher,<br/>
can't always listen to the same ministers ;<br/>
don't like strangers ; can't keep awake<br/>
while at church, fell asleep last time I<br/>
was there, shan't risk it again.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Powers of a Bird's Song.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we hear the song of the soaring<br/>
lark, we may be sure that the entire at-<br/>
mosphere between us and the bird is filled<br/>
with pulses, or undulations, or waves, as<br/>
they are often called, produced by the<br/>
little songster's organ of voice. This or-<br/>
gan is a vibrating instrument, resembling<br/>
in principle the clarionet. Let us suppose<br/>
that we hear the song of a lark, elevated<br/>
to the hight of five hundred feet in the<br/>
air. Before this is possible, the bird must<br/>
have agitated a sphere of air one thou-<br/>
sand feet in diameter—-that is to say, it<br/>
must have communicated to seventeen<br/>
thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight<br/>
tons of air, a motion sufficiently intense<br/>
to be appreciated by our organ of hearing.<br/>
-—TYNDALL'S GLACIERS OF THE ALPS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jamaica Riot.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last, under the above head,<br/>
we gave an account of the execution<br/>
of Mr. George H. Gordon. The Bri-<br/>
tish Standard, of Dec. 8th, says : Mr.<br/>
Gordon was clearly a man of no com-<br/>
mon character. His piety was not<br/>
only decided, but ardent, and his<br/>
Christain charity was comprehensive<br/>
of every section of the Church of God.<br/>
His origin and history greatly intensi-<br/>
ty the interest of the subject.{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The excellent Dr. King, of London,<br/>
who made a lengthened sojourn in Ja-<br/>
maica, was well acquainted with him,<br/>
and has borne a noble testimony to<br/>
his intelligence and his worth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. King says, he was a member of<br/>
the United Presbyterian Church in<br/>
Kingston, and that every one, from<br/>
the highest to the lowest, spoke of<br/>
him with esteem. He says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Mr. Gordon was the son of a white<br/>
gentleman, one of the custodies of the<br/>
island, much esteemed for his dignified,<br/>
hospitable, and obliging deportment.<br/>
Like many in elevated position and of<br/>
refined manners, he had children by his<br/>
slaves—born to slavery as their heritage.<br/>
This was the birthright of poor George<br/>
Gordon. Being a very smart boy he<br/>
taught himself with very little aid to<br/>
read, write, and cast accounts. By his<br/>
diligence and intelligence he continued<br/>
to gather money, with which he bought<br/>
his freedom. Once free himself, he gain-<br/>
ed enough to emancipate his sisters, and<br/>
afterwards sent them to Europe for their<br/>
education—-first, I think, to London, and<br/>
then to Paris. Through the reverses of<br/>
the colony, the father from being very<br/>
rich came to lose all, and the colored son<br/>
bought his estate—-not, however, to de-<br/>
prive him of it, but to leave him in oc-<br/>
cupancy, surrounded by the comforts he<br/>
had been accustomed to enjoy. So acted<br/>
the son of the bondwoman when the feel-<br/>
ings of his father's white wife and her<br/>
children would not allow him to enter<br/>
the paternal abode. Yet he always spoke<br/>
to me with deferential regard for his fa-<br/>
ther; and never uttered a disrespectful<br/>
word regarding Mrs. Gordon. He was<br/>
tenderly sensitive. One day as we were<br/>
walking together, he became pensive and<br/>
absorbed, and, after ceasing for a little<br/>
to speak or listen, he requested me to<br/>
step aside with him. He stopped before<br/>
a slight elevation of the grass, and said<br/>
to me, with much emotion, 'My mother<br/>
is buried there; she was a negro and a<br/>
slave, but she was a kind mother to me,<br/>
and I loved her dearly.' As he uttered<br/>
these words his tears trickled down upon<br/>
her grave.”<br/>
(*) What, in this age of the Christian era to<br/>
say of a man in an elevated position having<br/>
children by women in no sense his wives<br/>
that he is of refined manners! Why, it is a hor-<br/>
rible pervertion of language! Christ and his<br/>
gospel pronounces such mere adventurers. Such<br/>
refinement is but repugnant to abomination.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The following letter from Mr, Gor-<br/>
don to his wife, will be read with<br/>
deep interest. One can hardly read<br/>
the accounts given in the English pa-<br/>
pers, of this outrageous action of the<br/>
Jamaica Governor, without seeing<br/>
that the spirit of hate engendered by<br/>
slavery in the oppressor towards the<br/>
oppressed, lies at the foundation of<br/>
these horrid barbarities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My BELOVED WIFE—-General Nel-<br/>
son has just been kind enough to inform<br/>
me that the court-martial on Saturday<br/>
last has ordered me to be hung, and that<br/>
the sentence is to be executed in an hour<br/>
hence; so that I shall be gone from this<br/>
world of sin and sorrow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I regret that my worldly affairs are<br/>
so deranged; but now it cannot be help-<br/>
ed. I do not deserve this sentence, for<br/>
I never advised or took part in any in-<br/>
surrection. All I ever did was to re-<br/>
commend the people who complained to<br/>
seek redress in a legitimate way; and if<br/>
in this I erred, or have been misrepre-<br/>
sented, I do not think I deserve the ex-<br/>
treme sentence. It is, however, the will<br/>
of my Heavenly Father that I should<br/>
thus suffer, in obeying His command to<br/>
relieve the poor and needy, and to pro-<br/>
tect, so far as I was able, the oppressed.<br/>
And glory be to His name; and I thank<br/>
Him that I suffer in such a cause. Glory<br/>
be to God, the Father of our Lord Je-<br/>
sus Christ; and I can say it is a great<br/>
honor thus to suffer, for the servant can-<br/>
not be greater than his Lord. I can now<br/>
say with Paul, the aged. "The hour of<br/>
my departure is come, and I am ready to<br/>
be offered up. I have fought a good<br/>
fight, I have kept the faith, and hence<br/>
forth there is laid up for me a crown of<br/>
righteousness, which the Lord, the right-<br/>
eous Judge, shall give me." Say to all<br/>
friends, an affectionate farewell; and<br/>
that they must not grieve for me, for I<br/>
die innocently. Assure Mr. Airy and<br/>
all others of the truth of this. Comfort<br/>
your heart. I certainly little expected<br/>
this. You must do the best you can,<br/>
and the Lord will help you; and do not<br/>
be ashamed of the death your poor hus-<br/>
band will have suffered. The judges<br/>
seemed against me; and, from the rigid<br/>
manner of the court, I could not get in<br/>
all the explanation I intended. The man<br/>
Anderson made an unfounded statement,<br/>
and so did Gordon; but his testimony<br/>
was different from the deposition. The<br/>
judges took the former and erased the<br/>
latter. It seems that I was to be sacrifi-<br/>
ced. I know nothing of the man Bogle.<br/>
I never advised him to the act or acts<br/>
which have brought me to this end.<br/>
Please write to Mr. Chamerovzow, Lord<br/>
Brougham, and Messrs. Hencknell and<br/>
Du Buisson."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I did not expect, not being a rebel,<br/>
that I should have been tried and dis-<br/>
posed of in this way. I thought His Ex-<br/>
cellency the Governor would have allow-<br/>
ed me a fair trial, if any charge of sedi-<br/>
tion or inflammatory language were fair-<br/>
ly attributable to me; but I have no<br/>
power of control. May the Lord be<br/>
merciful to him."—-AN. MISSIONARY.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A WHALE boat, built with<br/>
brass knees. 28 feet long,<br/>
and 6 feet wide, with oars, mast<br/>
and sail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply on board the Siam Bar-<br/>
que "Rapid." (3. w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE United States Consulate,<br/>
has been removed from the<br/>
Siamese Public Buildings to Kawk<br/>
Kwai, near the residence of Paul<br/>
Pickenpack Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. HOOD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE fast sailing Chinese rig-<br/>
ged boat "Helena" of about<br/>
30 tons register, or 500 piculs<br/>
capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel has just undergone<br/>
a though repair, and is newly<br/>
sheathed with yellow metal, is<br/>
well found in anchors and chains,<br/>
has a good boat, sails in good order,<br/>
is fitted with patent blocks, and<br/>
can be used without any further<br/>
expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Apply to, A. F. SANDBAG & Co.
Bangkok 18th May 1866 (S. w.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dook Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
