---
linkTitle: 'February 22nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - February 22nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); February 22nd'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 31
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22nd, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 7.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 1st January.-—Yearly re-<br/>
venue most satisfactory. Expenditure<br/>
less by a million than calculated. In-<br/>
come two millions more. Mr. Maule,<br/>
recorder of Leeds, and Mr. Roundell<br/>
Palmer added to complete Jamaica<br/>
commissioners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
America 21st December.—-The<br/>
President informs the Senate that the<br/>
work of reconstruction is progressing<br/>
favorably. Grant reports his belief<br/>
in the sincerity of the Southerners<br/>
progressing in loyalty. Sumner (?)<br/>
impeaches correctness of statement,<br/>
asserting that Southerners are cons-<br/>
tantly perpetrating atrocities against<br/>
freedmen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
America 29th Dec.—-Carolina has,<br/>
by a decree of the Constitution, abol-<br/>
ished slavery. The President has res-<br/>
tored the habeas corpus act throughout<br/>
the country except in rebellion states.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 3rd January.-—Fair Dhol-<br/>
lers 17¾d. Market steady Sale. 20,000<br/>
bales. Bengal Cotton, 13d. Indian<br/>
drafts on Calcutta and Madras, 1s.<br/>
11½d. twenty-four—on Bombay 2s.<br/>
2⅖. twenty-one per cent. Consols,<br/>
87½. Discount 7 for sixty days on<br/>
Calcutta. Exchange 2s. on Bombay<br/>
2s. 0¼. The Spanish Correspondenzia<br/>
says that the Governor knows of the<br/>
revolutionary projects of those who<br/>
mistake forbearance for weakness, and<br/>
will certainly defeat them. A special<br/>
despatch from Washington states that<br/>
the French troops will be withdrawn<br/>
from Mexico within three months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London Jan. 5th.—-Fair Dhollera,<br/>
18½d; market ready. Bengal Cotton,<br/>
13d. Manchester nothing doing. 7lb,<br/>
shirting, 15s. No. 40 Mule Twist, 2s.<br/>
2d. Consols, 87,. Moderate enquiry<br/>
for discount—rates fully maintained.<br/>
Money abundant. Military revolt in<br/>
Madrid and Bayonne. Minister of<br/>
Marine pursuing insurgents. Caho<br/>
retired to the mountains. Prim re-<br/>
ported as instigating insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London January 6th.-—Cotton<br/>
market dull. Sales 8,000 bales, stock<br/>
442,680 bales. Bengal Cotton 13d.<br/>
Consols 87½. Military revolt in Spain<br/>
spreading. Perim [?] and Cados La-<br/>
tore head insurgents. Martial Law<br/>
proclaimed at Madrid. Treaty of<br/>
Commerce ratified between Austria<br/>
and England,—all probability duties<br/>
abolished — goods admitted on protec-<br/>
tive duties not exceeding 25 per cent<br/>
Mexican advices report revolution<br/>
broken out against Maximilian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 9th January.—-Fair Dhol-<br/>
lers, 17½d. Market flat, but firm.<br/>
Bengal Cotton, 13d. Manchester<br/>
market depressed and heavy—-fluc-<br/>
tuating. 7lb Shirtings, 14s. 6d. Mule<br/>
Twist, 2s. 1d. Consols, 87¼ stock and<br/>
share market dull. Discount accomo-<br/>
tion active in consequence of amount<br/>
of Indian bills maturing. Rate barely<br/>
maintained. Banda Kirwee Prize<br/>
money case commenced before the<br/>
Court of Admiralty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Manchester 10th January.—-Goods<br/>
and yarns quiet. Money tight Ex-<br/>
ports small.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 12th Jan.—-Cotton—-little<br/>
doing. 7lbs Shirtings 15s. 3d. No. 40<br/>
Twist 2s. 2d.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Penang Argus Feb. 9th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, January 10, 8 p. m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fair Dhollera 17½d., more doing<br/>
and prices strong.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bengal Cotton 13¾d.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Consol's 87⅜.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
American news to the 30th Decem-<br/>
ber.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Radicals are dissatisfied with<br/>
the President's reconstruction policy.<br/>
Senator Wilson notifies his want of<br/>
confidence in the Administration. The<br/>
President is sustained by the Demo-<br/>
crats and the Conservatives. The Re-<br/>
publicans have expressed their deter-<br/>
mination to thwart his policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, January 11, 5-2 p. m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bank of England discount 8 per<br/>
cent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Telegraphic communication be-<br/>
tween London and the provinces is<br/>
interrupted owing to a heavy fall of<br/>
snow breaking the wires.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Prim defeated Command-<br/>
ant Spanish General Concha.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A state of siege has been proclaimed<br/>
at Arragon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Barcelous a demonstration a-<br/>
gainst the Government was dispersed<br/>
by the military firing on the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, January 12, 4-37 p. m
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Fair Dhollera 17½d to 17½d.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bengal Cotton 13d.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Consols 87.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ship Simla, from Bombay to<br/>
Liverpool, has been destroyed by fire.<br/>
The cargo was lost, but the crew were<br/>
saved by the Star of India.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No vessel named the Simla<br/>
was due at Liverpool from Bombay,<br/>
but a vessel of that name was due at<br/>
London from Calcutta, and in the<br/>
Home News of Dec. 26 is reported to<br/>
have been seen bottom up. The de-<br/>
tails of her loss may have reached<br/>
London on the date of the telegram,<br/>
and thus been forwarded. Unless this<br/>
supposition is correct, the name of the<br/>
vessel must have been incorrectly<br/>
transmitted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, January 13, 4-42 p. m.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Fair Dhollera, 17¼d., fair demand ;<br/>
market healthy and a steady business<br/>
doing.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bengal Cotton 13¼d.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Stock, 390,200 bales.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Consols, 87⅖.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Exchange on Bombay, 2s. to 2s. 0½d.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Do. Calcutta and Madras, 1s, 11⅞d<br/>
to 2s.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Gold, £ 3. 17s. 9¼d. per oz.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Silver, 5s. 1½d. per oz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following amounts of specie<br/>
were forwarded to Bombay by the<br/>
Southampton steamer yesterday.—<br/>
Silver, £ 430,000; Gold, £ 567,075.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Chilian corvette has engaged, de-<br/>
feated, and captured a Spanish gun<br/>
boat off Papada, which was conveying<br/>
despatches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From the Home News, Dec. 26.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Speech of the new King of the<br/>
Belgians to the Chambers has made<br/>
a favorable impression in foreign coun-<br/>
tries, and been received with enthusi-<br/>
asm in Belgium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is stated that the French govern-<br/>
ment intends to withdraw from<br/>
the Extradition Treaty with England<br/>
when it expires in June, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Italian Ministry have resigned.<br/>
General La Marmora has undertaken<br/>
the formation of a new Cabinet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Both Houses of the American Le-<br/>
gislature are occupied with the Mexi-<br/>
can question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenian President in America<br/>
has issued an address refusing to ac-<br/>
knowledge the Senate held in New<br/>
York, and announcing a Fenian Con-<br/>
gress to be held in January. The<br/>
Senate subsequently deposed the Pre-<br/>
sident, charging him, with misappro-<br/>
priation of funds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague is still on the in-<br/>
crease in England and Wales.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Earl Cowley is to receive the garter<br/>
vacant by the death of Lord Pal-<br/>
merston.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A meeting was held at Cambridge<br/>
for the purpose of passing resolutions<br/>
condemnatory of Governor Eyre, but<br/>
an amendment was carried declaring<br/>
it unjust to pronounce any opinion<br/>
pending inquiry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A congratulatory address will be<br/>
presented to Dr. Colenso on his arri-<br/>
val at Natal. The local bishops have<br/>
declared him to be out of the pale of<br/>
the Church.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Count Eulenburg has been sentenced<br/>
to imprisonment for his"share in the<br/>
affray in which M. Otto lost his life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Princess Ann Murat was mar-<br/>
ried to the Duke de Mouchy in Paris<br/>
on the 18th December.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Grey, secretary of the English<br/>
embassy at Paris, has died of cholera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A project is in course of develop-<br/>
ment for the union of the whole of<br/>
London under one municipality.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A terrible colliery explosion has<br/>
taken place at Merthyr Tydvil, by<br/>
which 30 men have been killed, and<br/>
many others injured.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Message of President Johnson<br/>
seems to have had a very salutary ef-<br/>
fect throughout the country. It is<br/>
regarded as an able State paper, paci-<br/>
fic in tone, and calculated to contri-<br/>
bute materially to the restoration of<br/>
good feeling between the two sections<br/>
lately in conflict, and to allay much of<br/>
the apprehensions of foreign compli-<br/>
cation previously felt. Its effect upon<br/>
Congress is said to have been impor-<br/>
tant, and the Conservative Republi-<br/>
cans seem to have been in many cases<br/>
influenced thereby to adopt a more<br/>
conciliatory course towards the South.<br/>
South. It is currently reported that<br/>
the joint resolution prescribing the<br/>
test oath of having never aided the re-<br/>
bellion as a requisite for admission to<br/>
Congress will be greatly modified. Its<br/>
enforcement would have excluded<br/>
from that body nearly all the recently<br/>
elected members from the Southern<br/>
States. It seems possible now that<br/>
their credentials may be received dur-<br/>
ing the session.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Both Houses of Congress have re-<br/>
quested the President to furnish all<br/>
correspondence touching the French<br/>
occupation of Mexico, Maximilian's<br/>
decree ordering armed Republicans to<br/>
be shot without trial, and the estab-<br/>
lishment of Peonage. Another reso-<br/>
lution, strongly pointed against Mexi-<br/>
co, was introduced in the House and<br/>
laid over.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Charleston correspondent of<br/>
the 'Herald' asserts that General Grant,<br/>
in the course of conversation at the<br/>
dinner given by General Sickles, stated<br/>
that now was the favorable moment<br/>
to drive Maximilian from Mexico, and<br/>
that such an opportunity might not<br/>
occur again. General Grant has re-<br/>
turned to Washington, and reports<br/>
that the negroes are in comparative<br/>
idleness and refused to renew their<br/>
contracts. He believes that the pro-<br/>
fessions of loyalty expressed by the<br/>
Sothern masses are sincere.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bill had been introduced into the<br/>
House of Representatives, providing<br/>
for the payment to Mrs. Lincoln of<br/>
the sum of 100,000 dollars, being the<br/>
salary of her husband for the four<br/>
years' term for which he was last<br/>
elected. The bill was referred to a<br/>
committee of one from each State.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Provisional Governor Perry, of South<br/>
Carolina, recently received the follow-<br/>
ing telegram from the President:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I do not think it necessary for<br/>
the members elect from South Caro-<br/>
lina to be present at the organization<br/>
of Congress. On the contrary, it will<br/>
be better policy to present their certi-<br/>
ficates of election after the two Houses<br/>
have been organized, which will then be<br/>
a simple question under the constitu-<br/>
tion of the members taking their seats.<br/>
Each House must judge for itself the<br/>
election returns and qualifications of<br/>
its own members. As to what the two<br/>
Houses will do in reference to the<br/>
oath required to be taken by members<br/>
is unknown to me, and I do not like<br/>
to predict. But, upon the whole, I<br/>
am of the opinion it would be better<br/>
for the question to come up after<br/>
Congress has been organised. I hope<br/>
that your legislature will adopt a code<br/>
in reference to free persons of colour<br/>
that will be acceptable to the country,<br/>
and at the same time do justice to the<br/>
white and coloured population..
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ANDREW JOHNSON, President.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A circular of the Freedmen's Aid<br/>
Society states that, unless some special<br/>
provision was made for them, 70,000<br/>
negroes will probably perish during<br/>
this winter in Georgia and Alabama<br/>
alone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Logan, it is said, has re-<br/>
fused to accept the Mexican mission<br/>
unless the United States government<br/>
will give material aid to Mexico. The<br/>
President had refused to give such<br/>
assurance, Mr. Seward adding that<br/>
the Mexican policy of the Government<br/>
would for the present remain un-<br/>
changed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
News from New Orleans to the 8th<br/>
Dec. states that cotton receipts at<br/>
Shreveport are falling off. At Jeffer-<br/>
son, Texas, the head of the Red River<br/>
navigation, there were 12,000 bales<br/>
on hand and 20,000 more to come in.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LATEST INTELLIGENCE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
AMERICA.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from the Southern States<br/>
are generally satisfactory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Three-fourths of the States having<br/>
ratified the constitutional amendment<br/>
abolishing slavery, it is now the su-<br/>
preme law, and the great end for<br/>
which the war was fought is practi-<br/>
cally accomplished. Four Southern<br/>
States—North Carolina, South Caro-<br/>
lina; Georgia, and Alabama—have <br/>
ratified the amendment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Cowan, of Pennsylvania. sub-<br/>
mitted a resolution requesting the<br/>
President of the United States to fur-<br/>
nish the Senate with information of<br/>
the state of that portion of the coun-<br/>
try recently in rebellion—whether the <br/>
rebellion has been suppressed, United<br/>
States courts restored, post-offices<br/>
opened, revenues collected, and whe-<br/>
ther the people of those States yield<br/>
obedience to the laws and government<br/>
of the United States. Under objection<br/>
of Mr. Sumner, this resolution was<br/>
laid over.—In the House of Repre-<br/>
sentatives, Mr. Blaine, of Maine, in-<br/>
troduced a bill which was referred to<br/>
a select committee, providing for the<br/>
reimbursement of the loyal States for<br/>
all expenditures in support of the<br/>
war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Legislature of Mississippi has<br/>
reported against the constitutional<br/>
amendment on 'account of the second<br/>
clause, which reads,—" Congress shall<br/>
have power to enforce this article<br/>
by appropriate legislation." Such a<br/>
division of the amendment is, it alle-<br/>
ges, of the Legislature is tantamount<br/>
to a rejection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'New York News' of Dec.<br/>
12th has the following very unlikely<br/>
story.—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Cabinet meeting to-day, our<br/>
relations with England, which have<br/>
now assumed a serious if not alarming<br/>
aspect, were discussed at some length.<br/>
It is understood that the President has<br/>
directed Mr. Seward to prepare an<br/>
ultimatum to be presented to the Eng-<br/>
lish Government, and in the event of<br/>
its not being complied with, our min-<br/>
ister is to ask for his passports, and<br/>
return home.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest from China
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Overland Trade Report
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st Feb. 1866
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The northern news of the fortnight<br/>
which has just elapsed is full of rumours<br/>
concerning rebel movements. The<br/>
Nienfei are said to be on the neigh-<br/>
bourhood of the Grand Canal, about<br/>
300 li, north of the Yangtze. They<br/>
are described as pushing steadily south-<br/>
wards and as having inflicted defeats on<br/>
the Imperial troops. Very late news<br/>
from Hankow, brought by a steamer<br/>
which left that place on the 21st, relates<br/>
to further rebel movements. A large<br/>
force was within 30 miles of the city,<br/>
and one of the chief imperialist generals<br/>
had gone over to the enemy. The<br/>
Taoutai had applied for help to all the<br/>
foreign consuls. The gunboat Algerine<br/>
lying at Kewkiang proceeded immedi-<br/>
ately to Hankow. The French gunboat<br/>
Fardif was already at Hankow. Re-<br/>
fugees were flocking into the foreign<br/>
settlement from all directions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From Chinkiang there are accounts<br/>
of a new canal on a large scale which<br/>
is under construction. It is on the<br/>
South Bank, just above the British<br/>
Concession, and is intended for the<br/>
shelter of native craft from the north<br/>
winds when the proclamation ordering<br/>
them to quit the north side shall be<br/>
enforced. About 2,000 men are kept<br/>
constantly at work, and though the<br/>
canal cannot be thoroughly finished un-<br/>
der two years it will, it is said, be<br/>
ready for partial use in a month's time.<br/>
The idea is to connect Nankin with<br/>
Chinkiang. At Nankin the authorities<br/>
have issued an edict taking off all duties<br/>
from silks woven there for five years,<br/>
and a great effect has been produced.<br/>
No fewer than 2,500 silk looms have<br/>
been established in the place in six<br/>
months. Six or seven hundred extra<br/>
looms are at work at Chinkiang and<br/>
the number of junks on the north side,<br/>
has increased marvellously. They lie<br/>
all along the river bank for more than<br/>
a mile, in tiers 18 to 23 deep.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Piratical operations have been very<br/>
active during the past fortnight. A<br/>
French brig the Jeanne et Joseph<br/>
which left Hongkong for Takao on the<br/>
16th instant, came to anchor in the<br/>
Ly-ee-moon passage off Tamtoo for<br/>
the night and was attacked by three<br/>
junks at about 8 o'clock in the evening.<br/>
About two hundred men boarded her<br/>
and overpowered resistance. Every-<br/>
thing of value was taken from her; but<br/>
the pirates, before they had quite<br/>
completed their work were interrupted<br/>
by the accidental appearance of a<br/>
Spanish war steamer, the Circe. They<br/>
made off, and the Circe lay alongside<br/>
the brig all night. Next day the Jeanne<br/>
et Joseph returned to Hongkong hav-<br/>
ing lost two of her men in the attack.<br/>
On the 21st another successful achieve-<br/>
ment of the pirates was announced<br/>
by the reappearance in the harbor of<br/>
the American schooner Alma. The<br/>
previous day she had sailed for Japan<br/>
and was attacked outside the Ly-ee-<br/>
moon. Her captain and crew escaped<br/>
in boats having the pirates at leisure<br/>
but after robbing the vessel of all she<br/>
contained, they turned her adrift, and<br/>
she was brought into Hongkong by the<br/>
crew of a passing vessel. Not content<br/>
with these two feats, the pirates at-<br/>
tempted a still bolder exploit. They<br/>
actually boarded a German barque, the<br/>
Albert Fures as she lay at anchor in<br/>
the harbor, near Stone Cutter island.<br/>
This was done during the night of the<br/>
23rd. There were a few chests of<br/>
opium on board, and the intention<br/>
probably was to kill the anchor watch,<br/>
—one man,—before he could give the<br/>
alarm and carry off the plunder without<br/>
the knowledge of the crew. The man<br/>
on watch, however, though severely<br/>
wounded, defended his life, and the<br/>
noise aroused his shipmates and also<br/>
excited the attention of the next vessel.<br/>
The pirates took themselves off there-<br/>
fore this time unsuccessful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Macao is gradually loosing its old<br/>
character for orderly propriety. Kid-<br/>
napping Chinese for the coolie trade<br/>
is carried to a fearful extent. Boat<br/>
loads of men are being brought in from<br/>
the west coast almost daily. In the<br/>
town itself rowdyism is beginning, and<br/>
respectable Europeans go about armed.<br/>
The China boys employed in steamers<br/>
visiting the port are afraid to go on<br/>
shore for fear of being kidnapped.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How to keep Poor.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Buy two glasses of ale every day, at<br/>
five cents each, amounting in one year<br/>
to $36,50; smoke three cigars, one after<br/>
each meal, counting up in the course<br/>
of the year to $54,75; keep a big dog,<br/>
which will consume in a year at least<br/>
$15 worth of provisions; and a cat $4<br/>
more—-altogether this amounts to the<br/>
snug sum of $110.25—-sufficient to buy<br/>
six barrels of flour, one hundred bush-<br/>
els of coal, and a barrel of sugar, one<br/>
sack of coffee and a good coat, a re-<br/>
spectable dress, besides a frock for the<br/>
baby, and a half a dozen pairs of shoes<br/>
—more or less. Just think of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Love the work you are doing and<br/>
must do; but when it is done, train the<br/>
rose-vines over your door!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Josh Billings says: If a man is<br/>
going to make a business of serving<br/>
the Lord, he likes to see him do it<br/>
when he measures out onions, as well<br/>
as when he hollers halleluier.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
February 22nd 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Never would we forget when we<br/>
write, or see, or think of the date above<br/>
given, that it points to the anniversary<br/>
of the birth of the immortal GEORGE<br/>
WASHINGTON one hundred and thirty<br/>
four years since—-a name that will<br/>
ever become more and more illustrious<br/>
while the principles of free government<br/>
shall continue to deepen, and streng-<br/>
then, and expand, until, as we, firmly<br/>
believe, they will, like Nebuchadnez-<br/>
zer’s mountain, "fill the whole earth."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The arrival of the Siamese Steamer<br/>
“Chow Phya” on the eve of the 17th<br/>
inst, brought for our small foreign<br/>
community here but a meagre European<br/>
Mail. Our latest dates from London<br/>
are to Dec. 26th, and from the U. S.<br/>
Am. to the 6th of Dec. We think<br/>
that we have in the late news both from<br/>
Europe and America peculiar reasons<br/>
for uniting with the sweet Psalmist of<br/>
Israel in the sentiment—-“The Lord<br/>
reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the<br/>
multitude of isles be glad thereof”<br/>
We see Him at the helm of all the<br/>
governments in Europe guiding them<br/>
to his own praise and glory, and con-<br/>
tinually assuring them that He will<br/>
cause all things to work together for<br/>
the good of His people. Most signally<br/>
did He interpose and arrest the rising<br/>
of a rebellion in Ireland, which, had<br/>
it been left to expend and strengthen<br/>
a few months more, would in all prob-<br/>
ability have done infinite damage to<br/>
England, to the U. S. Am., and to the<br/>
world. We rejoice to see, as we think<br/>
we do, among nearly all the nations of<br/>
Europe the principles of liberty and<br/>
freedom in human governments rapid-<br/>
ly gaining ground over oppression and<br/>
absolutism. Peculiarly glad are we<br/>
to notice the great expansion and power<br/>
and blessings of Republicanism in the<br/>
U. S. While we are pained at seeing<br/>
that many of the bitter and dangerous<br/>
roots of slavery are still living in the<br/>
hearts of men at the North and in the great<br/>
majority of the South we foresee a day<br/>
not far off, when they shall all be erad-<br/>
icated, and the coloured race univer-<br/>
sally acknowledged to be in the fullest<br/>
sense citizens of that great Republic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have read the message of Pres-<br/>
ident Johnson with much satisfaction<br/>
and see good reason why the first tel-<br/>
egraphic reports of it to all parts of<br/>
the world represented it as being very<br/>
generally commended in the U. S. and<br/>
commanding the high regards of nearly<br/>
or quite all the European powers. It<br/>
is indeed “an able state paper”<br/>
being another grand proof that its<br/>
author is an extraordinary man and<br/>
that he can and does grace well the<br/>
Presidential chair. But there are a few<br/>
paragraphs in the message with which<br/>
we cannot coincide. The one in which<br/>
the President apologizes for not hav-<br/>
ing taken any steps to extend the elec-<br/>
tive franchise to some, at least, of the<br/>
more worthy freedmen of the South,<br/>
appears to us strangely weak. He seems<br/>
to us to have utterly failed to<br/>
prove that the constitution stood in<br/>
his way of taking any such steps. And<br/>
his reasoning to show that the south-<br/>
ern States will ultimately give the<br/>
freedmen the right of suffrage, is as<br/>
“chaff before the summer threshing<br/>
floors.” While the old spirit of slavery<br/>
is but smothered in the bosoms of at<br/>
least three-fourths of their old mas-<br/>
ters, as is but too plainly manifested, it<br/>
is vain to think that they will allow<br/>
the blacks to stand up with them as<br/>
their equals at the ballot box. And<br/>
such is the nature of this accursed<br/>
spirit that it descends from the fathers<br/>
to the children, and if the question be<br/>
left for the whites at the South to set-<br/>
tle for themselves, we may look in<br/>
vain for their sons or their son’s sons<br/>
to give suffrage to the coloured race.<br/>
Nothing short of another terrible<br/>
struggle like that through which Slav-<br/>
ery and Freedom have just passed in<br/>
the U. S. will, in our humble opinion,<br/>
ever do it if this glorious opportunity,<br/>
opened by the most signal interposi-<br/>
tion of the Almighty be neglected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson certainly had the<br/>
power and the right to elevate the<br/>
status of all the freedmen to at least<br/>
the grade of the poorest and most<br/>
illiterate white men, giving them the<br/>
best of guarantees that an ordinary<br/>
education and loyal behavior will<br/>
bring them all to the ballot box, and<br/>
allow them to vote for their own ru-<br/>
lers with privileges and honors equal<br/>
to their white neighbours. But since<br/>
President Johnson has lost that op-<br/>
portunity, Congress now assembled, we<br/>
are happy to hope and believe, will<br/>
embrace it, and promptly do the freed-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
men that justice which the U. S. gov-<br/>
ernment has solemnly promised them,<br/>
and which Holy Heaven will insist<br/>
upon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It did our hearts good to read<br/>
the report of an Am. correspondent<br/>
to, the London Times of which we<br/>
give an extract below. The writer<br/>
seems to speak of the Radicals, much<br/>
in the sense of the old slang "Rabid<br/>
abolitionist." We glory in belonging<br/>
to the radical party. It was the radi-<br/>
cals that elected and re-elected the<br/>
illustrious Lincoln and placed by his<br/>
side Andrew Johnson, and that sus-<br/>
tains him in his most responsible po-<br/>
sition. The war for subduing<br/>
the great Rebellion, and for the glori-<br/>
ous work of destroying slavery was a<br/>
radical work, and was waged by<br/>
radical men. And the same radicals<br/>
are called of God now to eradicate<br/>
all the remaining bitter roots of sla-<br/>
very, and we have lively hope in God<br/>
that they will do it quickly and in it<br/>
well.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Philadelphia, Dec. 4th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Federal Congress, which assem-<br/>
bled in Washington to-day at 12<br/>
o'clock noon, began a Session that will<br/>
no doubt be among the most impor-<br/>
tant in American history. The Pres-<br/>
ident having gone over to the Radic-<br/>
als on the question of admitting the<br/>
Southern members, the Republicans<br/>
commence their long winter's work<br/>
with apparent harmony, and have laid<br/>
down their plan of operations upon<br/>
the reconstruction question in the<br/>
following resolution:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Resolved by the Senate and House<br/>
of Representatives of the United States<br/>
in Congress assembled, that a joint<br/>
committee of 15 members shall be ap-<br/>
pointed, nine of whom shall be mem-<br/>
bers of the House and six of the<br/>
Senate, who shall inquire into the<br/>
condition of the States which formed<br/>
the so-called Confederate States of<br/>
America, and report whether they or<br/>
any of them are entitled to be repre-<br/>
sented in either House of Congress,<br/>
with leave to report at any time, by<br/>
Bill or otherwise; and until such re-<br/>
port shall have been made and finally<br/>
acted upon by Congress, no member<br/>
shall be received into either House<br/>
from any of the said so called Con-<br/>
federate States, and papers relating to<br/>
the representatives of the said States<br/>
shall be referred to the said committee<br/>
without debate."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This resolution was unanimously<br/>
adopted in a caucus of 124 Radical<br/>
and Conservative Republican members<br/>
of the House of Representatives, and<br/>
was concurred in by a large majority<br/>
of the senators. It has not yet been<br/>
finally acted upon by Congress, and,<br/>
although strenuous opposition is made<br/>
to it by the Democratic members, its<br/>
friends, having so large a majority, it<br/>
must ultimately pass. The President<br/>
may or not sign it, but the pro-<br/>
babilities are strong that in his pre-<br/>
sent temper he will sign it. The<br/>
resolution is a complete disposal of<br/>
the case of every Southern member.<br/>
It permits no debate and no alterna-<br/>
tive. No matter how strong the<br/>
claims of any Southerner, it removes<br/>
him at once from the halls of Congress<br/>
to a close committee room, where 15<br/>
men can vote him in or out of<br/>
Congress. Thaddeus Stevens, of<br/>
Pennsylvania, a Radical Republican,<br/>
is the mover of this resolution, and<br/>
will be chairman of the committee,<br/>
and the majority of the member ap-<br/>
pointed upon it will be as Radical as<br/>
he is. There is little chance of the<br/>
admission of any Southern members<br/>
for weeks to come.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,-—Your last issue contained two<br/>
articles the one signed Penelope Brown,<br/>
the other unsigned, which having com-<br/>
menced and laid aside as more full of<br/>
words than good matter, I was in-<br/>
duced to read through on hearing that<br/>
they contained an assertion most in-<br/>
jurious and insulting to this commun-<br/>
ity, which ought not to be let pass<br/>
without reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The two articles in question are so<br/>
similar in tone that I shall deal with<br/>
them in connection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The one written immediately after<br/>
an excellently managed Ball at the<br/>
British Consulate, at which almost ev-<br/>
ery European and American of any<br/>
standing in this town was present,<br/>
complains of the evil of “promiscuous”<br/>
dancing. It does not argue against<br/>
the practice of dancing or give proofs<br/>
of its alleged immoral tendencies, but<br/>
assumes the wickedness and condemns<br/>
those who indulge in it, condemning<br/>
at the same time all those nations<br/>
dwelling in temperate climes, who find<br/>
the pleasant harmonious action of the<br/>
dance a relaxation from dull routine<br/>
constitutional walking and riding. If<br/>
Penelope Brown will resort to argu-<br/>
ment in support of her tirade I should<br/>
like her to shew that the races among<br/>
which dancing is not a general and<br/>
popular recreation are more moral, or<br/>
in any way better, or in most things<br/>
so good as those among which it is.<br/>
I must however protest against her<br/>
using ambiguous adjectives such as<br/>
"promiscuous" for while her use of<br/>
that word may only refer to gentlemen<br/>
dancing with ladies instead of by<br/>
themselves, it may be taken and in,<br/>
this case has been taken, to infer an<br/>
unsuitable association of persons such<br/>
as does not occur at any of the Balls<br/>
given by the ladies or gentlemen of<br/>
Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very kind of Penelope to hope<br/>
that some other means may be devised<br/>
of bringing harmoniously, if not prom-<br/>
iscuously together this little commun-<br/>
ity. We can join as we did before in<br/>
a social meeting, with perhaps a cup<br/>
of tea and a speech by some orator<br/>
unknown to fame on liberty or any<br/>
other of those fine subjects which ev-<br/>
ery talker can get impassioned about.<br/>
But if we join in such things good-<br/>
humouredly for the sake of good fel-<br/>
lowship, we in return shall expect<br/>
Penelope to smile on our way of<br/>
amusing ourselves. Probably the mu-<br/>
sic which excites us to dance might<br/>
not be disagreeable to her; she must<br/>
have some music in her, - though moved<br/>
but little she surely is not akin to<br/>
those of whom Shakespeare wrote
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—'The man that hath no music in his soul,<br/>
And is not moved by concourse of sweet sounds<br/>
Is fit for treasons, plots, conspiracies'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now for the other letter that<br/>
quotes a proverb that eight years ago<br/>
a sober European after dinner was a<br/>
curiosity. And adds that the statement<br/>
might now be applied with more truth<br/>
than poetry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A resident since the beginning of<br/>
1857 I probably know more about<br/>
this place than our unknown accuser,<br/>
who must be a later immigrant, and<br/>
my testimony is, first, that I have never<br/>
heard of such a proverb and believe it<br/>
to be either the writer's own coining,<br/>
or the dictum of a peculiar set I do<br/>
not associate with. Secondly, with re-<br/>
spect to the charge I say it is an un-<br/>
just one. It is true that some of the<br/>
younger men in the place have been<br/>
at times wild and noisy, so young men<br/>
are every where, and it is undeniable<br/>
that in the old time there was a set of<br/>
rowdies here much given to intoxica-<br/>
tion, but they were not the communi-<br/>
ty, they were only a bad part of it,<br/>
which very quickly got weeded out.<br/>
They were the exception, not the rule,<br/>
and their presence did not justify such<br/>
an accusation against the community<br/>
as a body. So much for the first part<br/>
of the charge, which the writer, it is<br/>
presumed, got from others; for the sec-<br/>
ond part he is himself responsible. Let<br/>
him go night after night from dining<br/>
room to dining along the East Bank of<br/>
the river (not the west Bank where<br/>
he will find few but missionaries,<br/>
whose habits I am unacquainted) and<br/>
he will learn that drunkenness is now<br/>
very rare indeed among our residents;<br/>
and even the hotels, are quiet and re-<br/>
spectable. If he will only observe facts,<br/>
and try to curb his nasty unpoetical<br/>
imagination, he will, perhaps, one day<br/>
see that this is not such a bad com-<br/>
munity after all, though it occasionally<br/>
indulges in dinner parties and Balls,<br/>
but that it contains many very worthy<br/>
men and women outside that little<br/>
circle where he and Penelope have<br/>
been nourishing their unkindly feelings
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
H. A.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the Chinese holidays we<br/>
enjoyed a little respite at this end of<br/>
town, from noise, dust, and smoke:<br/>
but the rice mills have started up again,<br/>
and things have assumed their usual<br/>
activity. John Chinaman however was<br/>
again triumphant, which is another<br/>
evidence that, in a certain sense, he<br/>
rules Siam. We are certainly very much<br/>
dependent upon him here as a "hewer<br/>
of wood and drawer of water." Indeed<br/>
he is the great producer of the king-<br/>
dom. Feeling conscious of his im-<br/>
portance, he was not going to be<br/>
cheated out of his holiday sports, and<br/>
when he sets his mind upon play it<br/>
takes a pretty good force to change it.<br/>
Some of the rice mills had a kind of<br/>
hope that they would be able to keep<br/>
going during the holidays, and had<br/>
secured a quantity of paddy ahead, but<br/>
even then they found it impossible<br/>
to run without John's assistance. The<br/>
noise of exploding fire crackers, the<br/>
loads of pork, and sweet meats continu-<br/>
ally passing along, proved clearly that<br/>
he was determined to have his feast,<br/>
and fun, and let the rest of the world jog<br/>
on as best it could without him. Still, if<br/>
he would do nothing worse than play,<br/>
we could not complain. When he does<br/>
work he works well, and we must<br/>
give him time to play. True, he will<br/>
not hang on as tenaciously as a Euro-<br/>
pean, but still he makes an excellent<br/>
coolie. Whilst Paddy is so taken up<br/>
with Fenianisim in the Eastern ports<br/>
of the United States, John is gradually<br/>
working him out of business in the<br/>
great West. A late paper states that<br/>
there are at present some ten thousand<br/>
Chinamen at work on the new Pacific<br/>
Rail Road.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The following extract translated from<br/>
a government document prepared for our<br/>
Siamese paper and published in our last<br/>
issue on the 15th inst. indicates pretty<br/>
clearly which way the wind blows and<br/>
whence it cometh. It is manifestly in-<br/>
tended to cramp the freedom of our<br/>
press.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Government Document.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Translated for the Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In cases of litigation in the city or<br/>
out of the city where the lawyers and<br/>
judges adjudicate not according to<br/>
justice, and either of the parties feel<br/>
aggrieved he has the privilege of ap-<br/>
pealing to the court of the deputy<br/>
governor or governor of the province in<br/>
which he lives, or to the court of any<br/>
high officer in the province. And then,<br/>
if he think any such court has not<br/>
done him justice through carelessness<br/>
or neglect or through some misunder-<br/>
standing, the king in great mercy has<br/>
been pleased to provide another mode<br/>
of redress which is as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whoever of the people or subjects of<br/>
the kingdom, without respect of per-<br/>
sons—all whoever they may be, that are<br/>
engaged in lawsuits, and feel themsel-<br/>
ves oppressed by lawyers and judges<br/>
in whatever court, let them make a<br/>
written complaint and present it to<br/>
the king when he comes out to his<br/>
seat called Sóót-t'ie-sa wán (on certain<br/>
days every waxing and waning moon<br/>
—-about 4 times a month) or he may<br/>
send the written complaint by the hand<br/>
of any relative, or by any lord or<br/>
noble or less honorable personage out<br/>
of the royal harem or within it, at any<br/>
time above indicated. The king will<br/>
then attend to all such complaints,<br/>
and cause the matter to be truthfully<br/>
investigated and justice done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But to reject this course, and go<br/>
and publish the matter in the “papers,”<br/>
causing odium to fall upon the judges<br/>
and upon their antagonists is the same<br/>
as placarding such persons. There-<br/>
fore whoever hires his complaints to be<br/>
printed is a transgressor, and he<br/>
will only defeat his own cause. He is<br/>
like one who beats his own legs until<br/>
they are bruised and broken.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Newspapers are continually<br/>
murmuring complaints of wicked con-<br/>
duct at Máaklawng. There is proba-<br/>
bly much truth in them. The govern-<br/>
or of that Province has within his juris-<br/>
diction many bands of lawless men,<br/>
who oppress the people and disturb<br/>
greatly the peace of the community.<br/>
Very many cases of litigation have<br/>
come up from that quarter—some of<br/>
murder, and some of the violent seiz-<br/>
ure of young women and the conse-<br/>
quent crimes. Complaint of such<br/>
crimes having been made in due form,<br/>
the cases were long under adjudication,<br/>
first in the court of the P'rák'lang in<br/>
this city and then in the court of the<br/>
Lord Mayor. But when appeals were<br/>
made directly to the king, thorough<br/>
trials were instituted. Judgment ren-<br/>
dered, and punishment inflicted upon<br/>
the offenders in front of the throne<br/>
Sóót-t'ie-sa wán. There have been<br/>
many such cases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Concerning the case reported in the<br/>
papers to have been adjudicated<br/>
through the influence of bribes, the<br/>
report is true. The old judge who<br/>
was bribed was connected with the<br/>
court of the P'rá-k'lang. His title<br/>
was P'rá P'ep'aksá. He came before<br/>
the king and testified that the man<br/>
and the girl truly loved each other<br/>
—-that the man did not take her for-<br/>
cibly from her parents, and that subse-<br/>
quently, the girl, changing her mind,<br/>
testified before the court that she had<br/>
never loved the man. This testimony<br/>
of the judge was found to be false,<br/>
and that he had indeed been influenced<br/>
by bribes in deciding the case as he<br/>
did. Judgment was accordingly rend-<br/>
ered in favor of the girl, and the man<br/>
who had forced her away from her<br/>
parents was imprisoned and the old<br/>
judge was degraded from his office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now this is but an illustration of<br/>
the proper mode of procedure, in all<br/>
cases of complicated litigation where<br/>
justice is long in being executed and<br/>
the party aggrieved finds no redress.<br/>
It is to go directly up to the throne<br/>
with the complaints stated in writing<br/>
and substantiated by suitable witnesses.<br/>
It is customary for the king in such<br/>
cases, to press forward the necessary<br/>
trial until the transgressor be taken<br/>
and justice executed upon him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Concerning that case which the<br/>
Newspaper reports that the prisoner<br/>
had escaped through the influence of<br/>
bribes—that is also true. The base<br/>
man Koolâp, a son of an officer in<br/>
the court of the P’râk’lang, having<br/>
forced the daughter of a plebeian<br/>
went and sold her as a slave. The<br/>
case was a long time under litigation<br/>
at M’râklawng, and was swaying from<br/>
side to side when at length it was<br/>
brought to Bangkok for trial. And<br/>
here for a long time, having balanced<br/>
one way and the other, a written com-<br/>
plaint was carried up to the throne.<br/>
The king commanded that the case be<br/>
speedily investigated. There were<br/>
certain individuals who influenced the<br/>
P’râk’lang to write a letter to the king<br/>
with the view to prevail upon him to<br/>
look upon the charges as being in<br/>
many respects false, so that the trans-<br/>
gressor might escape the severity of<br/>
the law. There was so much of error<br/>
and wrong action in this act of the P’râ-<br/>
k’lang, that the king became quite<br/>
displeased with him for it, and order-<br/>
ed the man Koolâp, together with his<br/>
father and mother, to be publicly flog-<br/>
ged, and then had Kool’âp thrust into<br/>
prison. He was in prison but a short<br/>
time, however, when he made his es-<br/>
cape. A report of this was made to<br/>
the king, when a royal command was<br/>
given to have him captured forthwith;<br/>
which being done, he was again flogged<br/>
and again imprisoned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are persons called Mâw-p’rn<br/>
(doctors of quarrels) who make a<br/>
business of instigating quarrels and<br/>
cases of litigation. They are contin-<br/>
ually entering complaints against<br/>
others, having ranges of them in their<br/>
neighbourhood. They go and pick up<br/>
little matters, which seem not to be<br/>
truthful, or they take up the quar-<br/>
rels of others not at all their own.<br/>
There are many such persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M’râklawng is a province more sub-<br/>
ject to cases of litigation than any<br/>
other. The king believes this to be a<br/>
true character of the place. But those<br/>
persons who continually murmur com-<br/>
plaints of it in the Newspapers with<br/>
the view of having the king take no-<br/>
tice of them, and cause them to be<br/>
investigated, shall not accomplish their<br/>
wishes. Because there is another<br/>
way to do this, a way appointed by the<br/>
king, and they will not walk in it.<br/>
That way is first to make complaint<br/>
of offences to the court of the gov-<br/>
ernors of the Province in which they<br/>
have occurred. But should the case fail of<br/>
being satisfactorily tried in the lower<br/>
courts of the Province, it can then be<br/>
carried to the sub-deputy of the place,<br/>
and then to the deputy, and then to the<br/>
governor. Should after all this, the<br/>
case fail of getting a fair trial, appeal<br/>
can be made to the royal court in
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, or to the court of the P’râ-<br/>
klang. And then should the matter fail<br/>
of a thorough investigation, a written<br/>
statement of it can be carried up to<br/>
the throne. The person desiring this<br/>
may do it personally, or he may do it<br/>
by proxy: but let the name of the<br/>
plaintiff be appended to the complaints<br/>
rendered. This is the proper way of<br/>
procedure in all such cases. But the<br/>
practice of placarding complaints, or<br/>
casting them about, or publishing them<br/>
in the Newspapers, sometimes naming<br/>
the so called offenders and the place<br/>
of their residence is improper, and will<br/>
not meet with the approbation of the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Newspapers are prone to credit<br/>
the reports of parties that have been<br/>
legally vanquished. Such parties, see-<br/>
ing that they cannot get their own<br/>
way, go and report their views of the<br/>
case in the papers. Then if they shall<br/>
seem not to have enlisted the atten-<br/>
tion of the king, they will gather up<br/>
lots of foul matter and heap it upon<br/>
their opponent and upon the place of<br/>
his residence. Now the king under-<br/>
stands this matter full well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
White men think white men like<br/>
themselves are really men, and that<br/>
black men are not men. And although<br/>
they can become so much pleased with<br/>
black men as to say they love them, it<br/>
is all the same as when they pass up and<br/>
down on the river, and seeing monkeys,<br/>
become pleased with them, and throw<br/>
out bananas and sugar cane to to them.<br/>
They do not love them as relatives<br/>
and brethren.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[And then having no less than four<br/>
times discribed the way to the throne<br/>
and to certain justice, a regular royal<br/>
edict is brought forward by which all<br/>
doubt is to be dissipated and all re-<br/>
remaining weakness of law made<br/>
strong. It is as follows]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is an edict of the king on<br/>
this subject. It is this. When com-<br/>
plaints against others are flung about,<br/>
or placarded, or published in the pa-<br/>
pers of the English Doctors, such<br/>
complaints shall not be accounted as<br/>
reliable, but shall be regarded as strong<br/>
evidences against those who have them<br/>
published. Because they who do this<br/>
give palpable evidence that they are<br/>
not able to withstand their opponents<br/>
face to face, but dissemble and charge<br/>
them falsely for the purpose of mak-<br/>
ing a great noise about it. Such re-<br/>
ports are not truthful. Even if they<br/>
be, it is an improper way of procedure.<br/>
The proper way is to make such com-<br/>
plaints to the regular courts of the<br/>
land, and then, when they have failed,<br/>
to carry them up directly to the throne.<br/>
This is a way open to all, none can<br/>
forbid it. The king in great compas-<br/>
sion for his subjects has opened this<br/>
door to his presence, so that whoso-<br/>
ever will may enter it. Should the<br/>
aggrieved person, from any cause, not<br/>
be able to present himself before the<br/>
king, he may send in his complaint<br/>
by some officer of government, or by<br/>
some relative—any one may present<br/>
it. Complaints within and without the<br/>
royal harem can all find access to the<br/>
king in this way. Now since such a<br/>
way has been opened to the throne,<br/>
and certain parties refuse to take it,<br/>
and go and publish their complaints<br/>
in the Newspapers, or fling them about<br/>
the streets, or place them on the gates<br/>
of the city and temples, these acts<br/>
shall be accounted as strong evidence<br/>
against their honesty. Let them not<br/>
think that they will ever obtain the<br/>
favorable regard of the king. They<br/>
shall weary themselves in vain. Let<br/>
none who read their complaints in the<br/>
Newspapers regard them as being true.<br/>
Let all read and understand this royal<br/>
soon late.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The time for the cremation of the<br/>
body of H. E. Chow Phya Kalahom's<br/>
sister, lately deceased, we learn is, fixed<br/>
to the 5th proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that His Majesty the king<br/>
has determined to take a pleasure trip<br/>
to P'etchaburee about the last of next<br/>
month. We earnestly wish the king<br/>
could see the necessity of improving<br/>
the inland rout to that Diamond city.<br/>
He always goes in his royal yacht<br/>
steamer across the gulf, and does not<br/>
experience one of the many trials of<br/>
patience and comfort which his sub-<br/>
jects do by the inland route at Ban-<br/>
lawng, and crossing the arm of the gulf<br/>
at Maaklawng. In the former the ca-<br/>
nal is so narrow and shallow and the<br/>
crowd of boats so great that not only<br/>
common traveling boats but also boats<br/>
laden with merchandise and in great<br/>
haste to get to Bangkok are often<br/>
hindered for days. And in crossing<br/>
the arm of the gulf they are always<br/>
obliged to wait for early morning<br/>
when the sea is calm ere they dare<br/>
pass over. Hence much precious time<br/>
is lost—often twelve hours on a trip.<br/>
Now this could be avoided if there<br/>
were but eight miles of canal out from<br/>
the Maaklawng river over to the Esan<br/>
creek, and the canal thence to Bangka-<br/>
boon widened and deepened. Thus<br/>
would that very uncomfortable and<br/>
sometimes dangerous gulf be aban-<br/>
doned to those only who would prefer<br/>
to have some farther experience of<br/>
the nauseous sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would beg His Majesty to con-<br/>
sider well the expediency of such an<br/>
improvement, not only for expediting<br/>
the great amount of travel and busi-<br/>
ness transacted between Bangkok and<br/>
the Diamond City, but also for having<br/>
a pleasant, direct, and safe high-way to<br/>
His Majesty's beautiful mountain pal-<br/>
ace at Petchaburee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since our last issue rumors have<br/>
been received by the Siamese govern-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
mant of serious disturbances having<br/>
taken place in the Teak forests of<br/>
Cheang-Mai, between two parties of<br/>
natives under English leadership, and<br/>
that some lives have been lost in the<br/>
affray. The authorities here seem to<br/>
have learned a good deal about it, but<br/>
keep it all to themselves, so that no<br/>
degree of pumping in this dry time<br/>
can bring any thing from them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Ship "Kiun Eng Bee"<br/>
which arrived here from Hong Kong,<br/>
on the 18th inst. reports that after<br/>
sailing from Hong Kong she was fol-<br/>
lowed by pirates and had to put back<br/>
to port, and sailed the second time in<br/>
company with two other Ships, for<br/>
mutual protection against the pirates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a time of remarkable quietness<br/>
in this great emporium. The business<br/>
of buying and selling rice must be<br/>
brisk, but there is scarcely the least<br/>
noise made about it. Rice is most abund-<br/>
ant, but the holders of it seem firm in<br/>
the belief that they can keep the prices<br/>
up yet a long time without danger of<br/>
becoming loosers by their obstinacy in<br/>
the end. The shipping in port has<br/>
diminished but little though many<br/>
vessels have recently left.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Besides the Foreign vessels in port<br/>
according to annexed list, there are 54<br/>
Siamese square rigged vessels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been informed that Mr.<br/>
Buius, the brother of the late R. Burns<br/>
arrived a few days since from Maul-<br/>
main, whether by water or by land the<br/>
authorities profess not to know, nor<br/>
whether he brings any reliable inform-<br/>
ation from the teak forests or not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Arrivals of Passengers per Chow<br/>
Phya Capt. Greig.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chow Phya, sailed from this<br/>
about 10 A. M. this morning, having<br/>
on board as passengers, Messrs. Henri<br/>
and Howetson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RICE—Common Cargo Tie. 65½ P coyan<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Good " 69 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Clean " 77 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}White " 90 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Paddy " 64 do<br/>
TREESED " 104 do<br/>
SUGAR—No. 1. " 10½ P picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}do 2 " 11 do<br/>
BLACK PEPPER " 10 do<br/>
BUFFALO HIDES " 11 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}do HORNS " 12½ do<br/>
COW HIDES " 15⅓ do<br/>
GUM BENJAMIN—Mixed " 210 do<br/>
TIN " 39 do<br/>
HEMP—No. 1. " 22½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}do 2. " 20⅓ do<br/>
SILK—Korat " 332 do<br/>
GAMBOGH " 56 do<br/>
STICKLAC " 13⅔ do<br/>
CARDAMUMS—Best " 185 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Bastard " 25 do<br/>
SAPANWOOD—3 @ 4 " 3 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}5 @ 6 " 2⅚ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}6 @ 7 " 2½ do<br/>
TEAKWOOD " 10 P rok<br/>
ROSEWOOD " 256 P 100 pt.<br/>
MAT-BAGS " 8 P 100<br/>
GOLD-LEAF—Tic. 16⅔ P ticals weight.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
DIED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. R. H. Princess Chdàng, the 13th<br/>
daughter of His late Majesty the se-<br/>
cond King of first reign of the present<br/>
royal dynasty, born in the year of the<br/>
Christian era 1790 living with her<br/>
elder half sister H. R. H. “Tarawati”<br/>
the princess consort of the late second<br/>
King on third reign, at palace of he-<br/>
highness, son of late Prince Chaufa “Is-<br/>
sarabongs” at upper part of the sed<br/>
cond King's palace during last 30<br/>
years, became sick of a disease occurer<br/>
for her decaying or advanced age, and<br/>
sunk gradually during last three years<br/>
and expired on 12th, Jan. last, five<br/>
days after the second King, aged 76<br/>
years. Her cremation and funeral ser-<br/>
vice took place on 12th February.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. R. H. Princess “Ying Suwanna”<br/>
the sixth royal daughter of his late<br/>
majesty the second King on first reign,<br/>
the elder half sister of the aforesaid<br/>
deceased, was born on the Christian<br/>
era 1785, living in second King's pa-<br/>
lace since her birth until the present<br/>
year, when she was 81 years of age.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The accident unfortunately occurred to<br/>
her on the night of the 13th, of Feb.,<br/>
She went to sleep on her bed at upper<br/>
story of her brick house. Her few<br/>
servants went to sleep, without any<br/>
one watching her. At about 11 P. M.<br/>
she, being wakened without any noise,<br/>
rose from her bed and walked for the<br/>
door to get down from her room; but<br/>
alas! she mistook the door and opened<br/>
a window and got out, thinking it was<br/>
the door, and fell to the ground from<br/>
a height of about 10 feet, and a large<br/>
vessel full of earth for planting shrubs<br/>
or herbs placed at her window, became<br/>
disturbed by striking of her legs against<br/>
it, and falling, with her, struck her<br/>
left leg and broke the bone. She had<br/>
great pain and suffering for two days<br/>
and nights, and expired on the 16th,<br/>
inst, at the age of 81 years. The<br/>
second King of first reign had several<br/>
sons and daughters, but now only his<br/>
son and four old daughters are yet<br/>
living.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Benares.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Delhi Gazette.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A MARRIAGE has lately taken place<br/>
here which caused no little astonish-<br/>
ment. A European holding a respect-<br/>
able position in one of the districts<br/>
under, the Benares Commissionership,<br/>
throwing off the garb of prejudice and<br/>
putting on the coat of unmindfulness<br/>
of the world's opinion, led to the<br/>
hymenal altar at the Ligra' church a<br/>
native female, who was formerly a Ma-<br/>
homedan. The marriage was brought<br/>
about by the kind interposition of a<br/>
Missionary of the C. M. S. who one<br/>
evening having gone out for a drive to-<br/>
wards that portion of the station where<br/>
the European was a resident, saw a<br/>
female in European costume taking out<br/>
three children for a walk; his attention<br/>
was directed towards the pretty little<br/>
children, having taken her for the ayah<br/>
in charge. To satisfy his curiosity he<br/>
and his wife called at the house of a<br/>
widow lady, a centenarian, and who<br/>
has lived in that neighbourhood for<br/>
the last seventy or eighty years; she<br/>
informed him that the female he saw<br/>
was married behind the church or in<br/>
other words; was the mistress of the<br/>
European in question, and that she<br/>
was the mother of four of his children,<br/>
the eldest, a girl, being at some school.<br/>
The next step that this good Missionary<br/>
took in the matter was to call upon the<br/>
European, and declare to him the life of<br/>
sin he was leading, and finally ended<br/>
his harangue by desiring him to unite<br/>
himself to the female in holy wedlock;<br/>
the European asked for a day's respite<br/>
to consider the momentous question<br/>
and the next waited upon the Mission-<br/>
ary and informed him that he had de-<br/>
cided in the affirmative. At this<br/>
stage of the affair some of the relatives<br/>
of the intended bridegroom interfered,<br/>
in trying to hinder the solemnization of<br/>
the marriage: to be short, all their ar-<br/>
guments having failed with their kins-<br/>
man, who was inexorable in his deter-<br/>
mination, they tried another dodge by<br/>
inducing the woman's Mahomedan hus-<br/>
band to set up an objection, but he was<br/>
also pacified by the offer of the douceur<br/>
to the extent a hundred rupees. Then<br/>
there came another hindrance, the<br/>
female was a Mahomedan this barrier<br/>
was also removed by an avowal on<br/>
her part to forsake the crescent and to<br/>
become a soldier of the Cross, and af-<br/>
ter due instruction she was baptized.<br/>
As I have before mentioned this affair<br/>
has caused no little astonishment as the<br/>
bridegroom is respectably connected;<br/>
one brother being a Deputy Commis-<br/>
sioner and another a Deputy Collector.<br/>
This marriage may be recorded as the<br/>
first one in which a European has taken<br/>
advantage of the provisions of the Con-<br/>
verts' Re-marriage Act. Shortly after<br/>
the solemnization of this marriage, an-<br/>
other European being in a similar pre-<br/>
dicament, except that he has two chil-<br/>
dren instead of four, also availed<br/>
himself of the same Act, and got<br/>
married to his mistress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[How could the European above<br/>
spoken of have done better than to<br/>
become united in "holy wedlock" to<br/>
"the mother of his own children" ?<br/>
If he felt sure that the children were<br/>
his own offspring and that the woman<br/>
was truly their own mother, and could<br/>
testify before God that he had no other<br/>
mistress, how could he have taken any<br/>
other course than that advised by the<br/>
"kind interposition of the Missionary<br/>
of the C. M. S."—and hope to have<br/>
an approving conscience toward his<br/>
mistress, his children, his neighbours,<br/>
or his God. Had he refused compliance<br/>
with the counsel given him, would<br/>
it not in all probability have been done<br/>
mainly for the purpose of being at<br/>
liberty to abandon the mother of<br/>
his children whenever, circumstances<br/>
might be such as to cross his pride of<br/>
caste too much to have her with him<br/>
as his mistress, and to cast off his<br/>
children upon the cold care of strang-<br/>
ers whenever it might too plainly<br/>
diminish his respectability to have it<br/>
openly appear that he was their father?<br/>
What could be more certainly a ter-<br/>
rible wrong upon ones own offspring<br/>
and their mother than such conduct?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For all Europeans in a similar predi-<br/>
cament the path of duty and wisdom<br/>
would seem to have been clearly<br/>
opened up by the example of the<br/>
European in question. But there are<br/>
multitudes of the European race in<br/>
this Eastern world whose relations to<br/>
their mistresses are far more compli-<br/>
cated and sad. What shall they do?]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Table Talk.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Paris illustrated newspapers<br/>
have given portraits of Lord Palmer-<br/>
ston, which are more or less good<br/>
likenesses, for photography had long<br/>
since made his face familiar on the<br/>
Continent. The biographical notices<br/>
attached to the engravings are frequent-<br/>
ly highly amusing. One writer ob-<br/>
serves:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The man who so often guided the<br/>
destinies of nations was a gentleman<br/>
in every sense of the word. He was<br/>
a sportsman, and a beau cavalier, always<br/>
making love, and getting into scrapes.<br/>
At all periods of life he was a most in-<br/>
veterate dancer, and would leave off<br/>
dispatch writing at any time for a<br/>
waltz. He introduced into England<br/>
la valse a deux temps. He could<br/>
talk and joke about everything, from<br/>
the rise and fall of empires to a cotil-<br/>
lion. He was gay even in a London<br/>
fog. He had little of the sadness and<br/>
gloom of the Englishmen who make<br/>
life one long story of care and work,<br/>
producing meanwhile numerous fam-<br/>
ilies which they know not what to do<br/>
with. He was fond of boxing and<br/>
hunting; in fact, an Englishman, but<br/>
not a gloomy Englishman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—An impatient boy waiting for the<br/>
grist, said to the miller: "I could eat<br/>
the meal as fast as the mill grinds it."<br/>
"How long could you do so?" inquired<br/>
the miller. "Till I starved to death,"<br/>
was the sarcastic reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—There is no higher, nobler duty<br/>
than that of work, and of all work that<br/>
which elevates a fellow man, is the<br/>
dearest, the sweetest, the most divine.<br/>
-—H. W. Beecher.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"Come, go to bed, Eddie," said an<br/>
anxious aunt, "you see the sun is set,<br/>
and the little chickens all go to roost<br/>
at that time." "Yes, aunty," said Eddie,<br/>
"but the old hen goes with them."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_11 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="ra4">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. FEB. 22ND 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r76">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="ra5">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>TON</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHEN FOR</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7d">
        <p class="r01">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Heng Hoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">852</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r80">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7d">
        <p class="r01">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">V. Canning</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Shannon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra9">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raa">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Iona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">500</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Frederick VII</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Hoyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Norseman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">711</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Dioseuseu</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Wagner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">853</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jasmin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Ortize</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Fre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">K. E. Bee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">722</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Dwina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Russ.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">A. M. Lawrence</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Tayler</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">604</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Am.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Gustav</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Kier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">240</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">August</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Brock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">412</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Amazone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Bollstadt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">215</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Kim Youngtye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Stroke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">327</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Ann Lucy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Yuthia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Davanant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">201</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">M. Mildred</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Fine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">460</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Henreitte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Horten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Dut.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Jaya</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Bragg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r92">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r93">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r95">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r98">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r92">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r93">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb4">
        <p class="r01">W. Cundell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r95">
        <p class="r01">Semple</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9a">
        <p class="r49">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb5">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb6">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb7">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_3_12 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02"><b>Vessel's Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrived.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r02"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Destination.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r50">
        <p class="r01">A. M. Lawrance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">606</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Taylor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">San Francisco</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Nardberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Annora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Brena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Weyhausen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">309</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Asmoreson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">406</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Caton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">223</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Dupuy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Mathesen Jullian. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Charlotte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ahrens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Kargill</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Lightening</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">G. Finke Seu.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">F. or Charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Ino</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">367</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bannaw</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Iona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">550</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Isis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Danish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Schuits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Jactmel Packet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">105</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Day</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">232</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Megerdrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Kusrovie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Naoodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Kung Mou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Westcott</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Laura</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Genitz</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gilfillan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">F. or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Mienen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">624</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ballard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">319</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ahimann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Rantipole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">100</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Stiles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Rudolph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Olrichs</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Sophia Amalia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Overclers</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Stella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">262</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Day</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bechmermann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Turandot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">403</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Meinert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Cubbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Wartburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">308</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Germer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">434</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
RESCUE OF THE ENGLISH GIRL ANEE<br/>
CROUCHES FROM A MAHOMEDAN<br/>
HARBM.— It is not long since we<br/>
noticed in these columns with regret,<br/>
the sale of an English girl by her pa-<br/>
rents to a licentious but aged Mahome-<br/>
dan. Since then, we learn from the<br/>
Bangalore Herald that this poor<br/>
girl has been rescued from a life worse<br/>
than death, by the gallantry of an<br/>
English soldier. As the tale savours<br/>
much of the romantic and will, pro-<br/>
bably, be read with pleasure by most,<br/>
if not all, our readers, we here reprint<br/>
what our contemporary says on the<br/>
subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would seem that a Sergeant of H.<br/>
M's 10th was roused into indignation,<br/>
as we all were when he heard the<br/>
shameful story; but unlike us who<br/>
could only fret and do nothing. The<br/>
Sergeant set his wits to work, deter-<br/>
mined to rescue his fair young coun-<br/>
trywoman. Being a married man him-<br/>
self, he could not exactly run away<br/>
with her, but what he could not do,<br/>
some other man might do. So rea-<br/>
soning on this hypothesis, the Ser-<br/>
geant got the girl down to his house<br/>
on the plea of spending the day with<br/>
his wife.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And as the day was being<br/>
spent, there happened the most na-<br/>
tural thing in the world to come in<br/>
on a visit, a Sergeant of H. M. 76th,<br/>
as handsome a young fellow as ever<br/>
wore a soldier's garb. Of course what<br/>
took place from this casual and ex-<br/>
traordinary meeting was to have been ex-<br/>
pected; the fair-haired girl fell in love<br/>
with the handsome young man, and<br/>
the handsome young man fell in love<br/>
with the beautiful girl. And as the<br/>
young Sergeant was no laggard in love<br/>
or dastard in war, he there and then<br/>
proposed and was accepted. A car-<br/>
riage was found near the Barracks;<br/>
into it they got, drove to church, got<br/>
hold of the Padre, who somehow or<br/>
other was not far distant, were married,<br/>
and off they now are with their Re-<br/>
giment to Bellary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"She is wou[?] we are gone, over<br/>
bank, bush and scaur;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They'll have fleet steeds that fol-<br/>
low, quoth Young Lochinvar."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now such is our story, and will not<br/>
every Englishman exult over it ? We<br/>
vote an address of thanks to the gal-<br/>
lant Sergeant of the 10th. And as to<br/>
the disappointed mother (shall we call<br/>
her by that blessed name?) and the<br/>
still more disappointed Bahadur, they<br/>
are served right, and over their baffled<br/>
hopes we joyfully raise a hearty Eng-<br/>
lish cheer! Hurrah! Hurrah!"—Ran-<br/>
goon Gazette.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-08_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the Buildings on the<br/>
premises now occupied by the<br/>
undersigned ; adjoining the<br/>
Portuguese Consulate ; consist-<br/>
ing of
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Dwelling house 120 by 34 ft. with river front<br/>
1 {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} 70 " 40 " {{< news/indent1 >}} do {{< news/indent1 >}} do <br/>
1 {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} 48 " 24 " in the rear.<br/>
2 Godowns {{< news/indent2 >}} 100 " 50 " capacity 10,000<br/>
pets. Rice each, together with sundry Out<br/>
houses, sheds, etc. etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For terms of Sale, apply to
F. BLAKE
Bangkok 7th February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he has recently pur-<br/>
chased all the presses and type, together<br/>
with all the typecasting and book-bind-<br/>
ing apparatus formerly belonging to<br/>
the Am. Baptist Mission in this city;<br/>
and having thus reinforced his original<br/>
Printing establishment with 'a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to per-<br/>
form a much greater amount of print-<br/>
ing for the Mission and for this business<br/>
community, and to fulfil the desires of<br/>
his patrons with more promptness and<br/>
certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
Union Hotel.<br/>
THE OLDEST<br/>
ESTABLISHED HOTEL<br/>
IN BANGKOK.<br/>
Billiard Tables and Bowling<br/>
Alleys are attached to the<br/>
Establishment.<br/>
P. CARTER,<br/>
Proprietor. Bangkok, 14th Jan. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA TRADERS.
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed Agent at Bang-<br/>
kok for the above named Insurance<br/>
Company, is now prepared to issue<br/>
policies on Marine Risks upon the usual<br/>
terms, to an extent not exceeding<br/>
$40,000 on first class sailing vessels,<br/>
and $70,000 on steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the usual Brokerage<br/>
of 10 P cent, a further cash return<br/>
of Five per cent upon premium paid,<br/>
will be made to all Insurers with this<br/>
Company. Payment for losses will be<br/>
made whereever an Agency of the<br/>
Company exists, in one month after<br/>
proof of loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. ST. Crs<br/>
JULIEN in our firm ceased from this<br/>
date, and Mr. J. M. ALLOIN will sign<br/>
by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RHMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam Nov. 1st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_26 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ré Estate of C. A. Chilcott deceas-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been duly<br/>
appointed administrator of the Estate<br/>
of C. A. Chilcote, late of Bangkok de-<br/>
ceased; all persons having claims upon<br/>
the said estate are hereby requested to<br/>
present the same, with proper vouches,<br/>
without delay. All persons indebted<br/>
to the said estate are called upon to<br/>
make payment of same to<br/>
January 5th 1866. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
W. DEAN
Administrator
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
