---
linkTitle: 'March 22nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 22nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 22nd'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 34
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, March 22nd, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 11.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chinese Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since the date of the last report the<br/>
pirates have been growing more and<br/>
more enterprising. It is not too much<br/>
to say that a vessel of small size can<br/>
scarcely leave Hongkong by the wind-<br/>
ward passage without falling a victim<br/>
to the predatory junks, which infest<br/>
the creeks and hidden bays of the in-<br/>
tricate coast. If she be a very fast<br/>
sailer and can run into the wind, she<br/>
may escape; if she be heavily armed<br/>
and filled with men, she may beat off<br/>
any junks which attack her, though<br/>
the pirates have now been rendered<br/>
daring by their success and continual-<br/>
ly board ships under fire. If they once<br/>
get near enough to throw stink pots,<br/>
further resistance on the part of the<br/>
vessel attacked seems useless. On the<br/>
1st a piratical attempt was made at<br/>
Aberdeen (on the south side of the is-<br/>
land of Hongkong,) but the buccaneers<br/>
do not seem to have had such good<br/>
information as usual, and boarded some<br/>
worthless native boats. H. M. S. Ad-<br/>
venture was in the bay and succeeded<br/>
in making a few prisoners. On the<br/>
night of the 2nd a very daring attack<br/>
was made on a water boat belonging<br/>
to Messrs. LANE, CRAWFORD & Co.<br/>
lying within the harbor limits, off the<br/>
new Mint. The pirates came on board<br/>
stealthily, battened down the crew and<br/>
hoped to be altogether unmolested,<br/>
but the master, although a prisoner in<br/>
his cabin, contrived to make so much<br/>
noise that he roused the attention of<br/>
the men on board a neighbouring<br/>
water boat, who came to his assistance<br/>
and fought the pirates hand to hand,<br/>
obtaining the victory in the end after<br/>
a severe struggle. Five bodies have<br/>
since been washed ashore, and it is<br/>
supposed that they are bodies of pir-<br/>
ates, engaged in this enterprise who<br/>
were killed in the fight. On the 5th<br/>
the Nuevo Lepanto a Spanish brig<br/>
left Hongkong for Macao. In the ev-<br/>
ening she was attacked by two pirates<br/>
junks, near Lantao, and though the<br/>
Captain tried to keep them off by his<br/>
fire, they ran him on board, and threw<br/>
stink pots. Officers and crew had to<br/>
beat a precipitate retreat in their boats.<br/>
As a general rule the pirates content<br/>
themselves with ransacking a ship.<br/>
They then leave her to her original<br/>
owners, but in this case, they set sail,<br/>
and carried off the prize altogether.<br/>
Her legitimate crew returned to Hong-<br/>
kong in the boats. Next morning a<br/>
Hamburg brig came in and reported<br/>
having seen the Nuevo Lepanto cru-<br/>
ising about outside with the Spanish<br/>
flag still flying. A Spanish war steam-<br/>
er then went in search of her, found<br/>
her and brought her in, the pirates<br/>
deserving their capture at the first signs<br/>
of danger. On the 10th, the schooner<br/>
Chin-chin was beating out of the Ly-<br/>
ee-moon when she was attacked and<br/>
captured in the usual way. In this<br/>
case the pirates left the vessel as soon<br/>
as they had plundered her, and her<br/>
crew, who had taken refuge meanwhile<br/>
in the foretop, brought her back to<br/>
harbor. The details of the piratical<br/>
successes become uninteresting from<br/>
their monotony. It seems to be re-<br/>
cognised as an inevitable decree of<br/>
providence, that almost all small ves-<br/>
sels leaving Hongkong should be rob-<br/>
bed, if they are worth robbing, and<br/>
unprovided with a battery of Arm-<br/>
strong guns. Meanwhile the gunboats<br/>
make captures now and then, but fail<br/>
to reduce the evil to any appreciable<br/>
extent. On the 12th the g. b. Opos-<br/>
sum went into Macao reporting that<br/>
she had destroyed a fleet of fifteen<br/>
piratical junks. It does not appear,<br/>
however, that she made any prisoners,<br/>
and the junks will no doubt be easily<br/>
replaced. Piracy in these waters is<br/>
too remunerative to be neglected for<br/>
want of capital, and it is commonly<br/>
supposed that without going away from<br/>
Hongkong, it would be possible to<br/>
find the money for replacing any<br/>
number of vessels which the British<br/>
gunboats may destroy. At present,<br/>
the gunboats, even when they capture<br/>
men, do not know what to do with<br/>
them. The local mandarins, if given<br/>
up to them, either torture or let them<br/>
go, being governed entirely by the sol-<br/>
vency of the pirates and their friends.<br/>
If they are brought to Hongkong, na-<br/>
tive traders here engage counsel on<br/>
their behalf, every advantage is taken<br/>
of the obscurity which must necessarily<br/>
hang over the evidence of their guilt<br/>
(as they are seldom caught in fla-<br/>
grante delicto) and nine times out of<br/>
ten they escape and resume operations<br/>
in triumph.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the North there have been<br/>
exciting accounts of rebel movements<br/>
and European measures for defence.<br/>
At Hankow, especially, there has been<br/>
great apprehension. On the 23rd of<br/>
January, a meeting was held under<br/>
the presidency of Mr. Medhurst the<br/>
Consul, at which it was resolved to<br/>
form a volunteer artillery corps. The<br/>
foreign community does not number<br/>
200, and of course in the event of a<br/>
serious attack by the Nienfei, there<br/>
would not have been much chance for<br/>
the settlement, although with an ef-<br/>
ficient garrison, it would be impregna-<br/>
ble. The Chinese have built a wall<br/>
which embraces it completely, touch-<br/>
ing the river at both ends. There is<br/>
a ditch fifty feet wide, a vast embank-<br/>
ment faced with granite, but unfortu-<br/>
nately no troops on which the slight-<br/>
est reliance could be placed. The<br/>
greatest danger in which the commun-<br/>
ity stood, was from the revolted sold-<br/>
iers of the Imperial Army. A large<br/>
body of these men, 6,000 strong (dri-<br/>
ven to rebellion by want, their pay<br/>
being eighteen months in arrears,) rose<br/>
and captured a place called Sungpoo,<br/>
about 80 miles from Hankow. They<br/>
afterwards formed a junction with the<br/>
Nienfei, and took the towns called<br/>
Wang-chow and Wang-po, respectively<br/>
50 and 30 miles from Hankow. De-<br/>
tachments began to scour the country<br/>
in all directions burning villages and<br/>
plundering the inhabitants. The po-<br/>
pulation flocked to Hankow, and al-<br/>
though when the last accounts left that<br/>
place, it was said that the panic was<br/>
subsiding, refugees continued to pour<br/>
into the town.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The census returns of Hongkong<br/>
made up to the 31st of December, 1865,<br/>
have been published in the Govern-<br/>
ment Gazette. It appears that the<br/>
population of the island is 125,504; of<br/>
these 2,084 are Europeans and Amer-<br/>
ican (1,142 men, 467 women and the<br/>
rest children). "Goa, Manila, Indian<br/>
and others of mixed breed" number<br/>
1,645. Details of the census will be<br/>
found in another page Trade Report.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
(From the "Hankow Times" of Feb-<br/>
ruary 3rd.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hankow is actually in a state of<br/>
siege, the wall is in its entire length<br/>
feebly manned, tents and flags are seen<br/>
at uniform distances along it, and<br/>
throughout all hours of the day and<br/>
night the sound of cannon is heard<br/>
booming through the air. The gates<br/>
are shut, and the refugees from the<br/>
country flock in for protection by a<br/>
narrow space on the extreme edge of<br/>
the river bank between barricades<br/>
formed of sandstone hastily thrown up,<br/>
whilst a perfect exodus of the natives<br/>
of the town itself took place in the<br/>
middle of the week. Such as they<br/>
are, the defences of Hankow are com-<br/>
plete. Against an unarmed force, as the<br/>
Nienfei are known to be, they may<br/>
avail some-what, if the soldiers on the<br/>
wall can be kept in face of the enemy<br/>
when it arrives. Against any deter-<br/>
mined attack by armed troops, and<br/>
those even Chinese, the defence af-<br/>
forded by the wall and the troops on<br/>
it is simply ridiculous. From all<br/>
Chinese sources, we must infer that<br/>
the hordes of Nienfei are countless in<br/>
number.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Overland Trade Report.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The jugglery of Spiritualism.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Well meaning persons have some-<br/>
times been perplexed by the marvels<br/>
wrought by the mountebank professors<br/>
of spiritualism. It would be good for<br/>
such folks to consider the revelations<br/>
made in the case of one Dr. Colches-<br/>
ter, who was sued by the Collector of<br/>
Internal Revenue, at Rochester, N. Y.,<br/>
because he had refused to take out li-<br/>
cense as a juggler. The case was tried<br/>
in the U. S. District Court, and able<br/>
counsel contested it on both sides for<br/>
two days, so that the investigation was<br/>
thorough and exhaustive. No better<br/>
subject could have been selected than<br/>
this Colchester. He was published as<br/>
the chief among the mediums: such<br/>
men as John W. Forney, members of<br/>
Congress, lawyers, and doctors, men<br/>
of national reputation for wisdom and<br/>
shrewdness, certified that he excelled<br/>
all others in the wonderful feats that<br/>
he performed, and that there was no<br/>
possible way of accounting for them,<br/>
except by ascribing them to the spirits.<br/>
He would do all that tipping, rapping,<br/>
writing, speaking, music-playing me-<br/>
diums could do-—do all that the Da-<br/>
venports pretended to do, and much<br/>
more. Many smart, keen men had<br/>
tried to detect the deceiver, but failed,<br/>
and all seemed dumbfounded by the<br/>
mysterious performer. He would an-<br/>
swer questions handed him in sealed<br/>
envelopes, without opening them, pro-<br/>
cure messages from departed friends,<br/>
and, most wonderful of all, the names<br/>
of the departed would appear upon his<br/>
arm in blood-red characters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What now was the result when these<br/>
extraordinary pretensions came to be<br/>
sifted in a court of law? It appears<br/>
that professional jugglers were sum-<br/>
moned for the prosecution, and they<br/>
testified that these were tricks of jug-<br/>
glery with which they were familiar;<br/>
that they could do all that Colchester<br/>
could, by sleight-of-hand; and, more-<br/>
over, two of them testified that Col-<br/>
chester had proposed to enter into<br/>
partnership with them, and go in for<br/>
a large business in spiritual manifesta-<br/>
tion, and make piles of money, not pre-<br/>
tending to deny that the whole thing<br/>
was a deception and fraud, but prefer-<br/>
ring to work under the guise of spir-<br/>
itualism, because that took better a-<br/>
mong the people than jugglery, and<br/>
consequently was more profitable. It<br/>
was proved that Colchester opened the<br/>
envelopes and read the questions which<br/>
he answered by a peculiar sleight-of-<br/>
hand; that he wrote the blood-red<br/>
letters on his arm by a process known<br/>
to jugglers, and did all his marvelous<br/>
feats by similar acts which it was near-<br/>
ly impossible for the uninitiated to de-<br/>
tect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The investigation was very interest-<br/>
ing, as it opened up a broad field of<br/>
deceit and marvelous fraud upon the<br/>
credulity of the people, of which very<br/>
few even have a suspicion. These<br/>
tricks are so neatly performed that<br/>
the sharpest observer is likely to be<br/>
deceived. The testimony in this case<br/>
lifted the vail, and it took the jury<br/>
only ten minutes to bring in a verdict<br/>
that Colchester was a juggler, and ev-<br/>
ery candid man who heard the testi-<br/>
mony said that the decision was just.<br/>
But the dupes of spiritualism denoun-<br/>
ced it as persecution of their religion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Buffalo Advocate, in comment-<br/>
ing on the verdict, says: "But even<br/>
this gives to the deviltry practised by<br/>
the leading spiritualists we have known,<br/>
by far too good a character. Jugglery<br/>
need not necessarily damn souls, while<br/>
spiritualism has led thousands to ruin<br/>
and perdition. Deluded men and wo-<br/>
men by multitudes, are easily entrap-<br/>
ped by Satan at his will."—
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
End of a Gambler.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent of the Portsmouth<br/>
Journal gives the following account<br/>
of one of the many victims of the gam-<br/>
ing table:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Of the many evil influences in-<br/>
cident to fallen humanity, the passion<br/>
for gaming may be ranked among the<br/>
foremost. For the drunkard, even in<br/>
the worst stages of that degrading vice,<br/>
there is hope; but there is none for<br/>
the victim to the fascinations of the<br/>
gaming table when once they have<br/>
seized him in their iron grasp. One<br/>
of the worst instances of this nature,<br/>
in final results, that has ever come to<br/>
my personal knowledge, occurred in<br/>
this vicinity in the case of a physician,<br/>
the son of a most worthy clergyman,<br/>
recently deceased. After the usual strug-<br/>
gles that most of the profession experi-<br/>
ence, he succeeded in obtaining,<br/>
through the aid of kind friends, a<br/>
practice sufficiently remunerative, be-<br/>
sides affording all the comforts of life,<br/>
to enable him and his little family to<br/>
make the respectable appearance in the<br/>
community requisite to continued suc-<br/>
cess in his calling. Notwithstanding<br/>
this evident prosperity, however, which<br/>
had been greatly advanced by the<br/>
generous acknowledgment on the part<br/>
of some of the older and more experienc-<br/>
ed physicians of their confidence in<br/>
his ability, there was a mystery about<br/>
him that those who knew him most<br/>
intimately were unable to fathom.<br/>
While living in an economical manner,<br/>
and pressing the payment of his bills<br/>
on the plea that his necessities required<br/>
it, he did not diminish the debts he<br/>
had contracted to enable him to acquire<br/>
a knowledge of his profession; obliga-<br/>
tions, in some instances, that he was<br/>
bound by every principle of honor and<br/>
gratitude to redeem, shared a like fate.<br/>
So far from reducing his liabilities, he<br/>
was continually adding to them,—often<br/>
procuring pecuniary aid from friends<br/>
on various pretences of sudden and<br/>
unanticipated need, which were found<br/>
to be the grossest fabrications. After<br/>
living for several years in this way,<br/>
he accepted the situation of surgeon on<br/>
board a steamer bound to various dis-<br/>
tant ports, on a voyage of about a<br/>
year’s duration, giving as a reason<br/>
declining health; but, instead of re-<br/>
turning home in the vessel on her re-<br/>
turn, to resume his practice, which he<br/>
had left in the hands of another mem-<br/>
ber of the profession, he left the steamer<br/>
and sent for his family to join him at<br/>
San Francisco.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From that time little was heard of<br/>
him; he was, in a measure, forgotten,<br/>
until the details reached his former<br/>
place of residence, through the journals<br/>
of San Francisco, of one of the most<br/>
awful tragedies, in which he was the<br/>
chief actor, that ever transpired in a<br/>
civilized community. He had occupied<br/>
the upper portion of a dwelling, and<br/>
nothing being seen of him or his family<br/>
for an unusual length of time, his<br/>
fellow tenants became alarmed, and<br/>
failing to obtain admittance by other<br/>
means, broke open the door, when a<br/>
most frightful spectacle presented it-<br/>
self. He was found lying in bed, with<br/>
one arm extended over a waterpail<br/>
that was nearly filled with blood, and<br/>
had apparently been dead many hours;<br/>
by his side was his wife, and in an<br/>
adjoining room their daughter and only<br/>
child, about ten years of age, in both<br/>
of whom life was also extinct. From<br/>
a couple of brief notes that he had left,<br/>
it was learned that being in destitute<br/>
circumstances, he had administered<br/>
strychnine to his family, and then<br/>
committed suicide by opening the veins<br/>
in his arm. It seemed that in the case<br/>
of his child, the poison had not pro-<br/>
duced death so soon as he wished, and<br/>
he had then fractured her skull with<br/>
an iron window weight, that bore<br/>
evidences of having been used for that<br/>
purpose. Such a frightful tale of mur-<br/>
der and suicide naturally excited, at<br/>
first, the greatest astonishment among<br/>
those who remembered him here only<br/>
as a respectable physician, until the<br/>
fact became known that he had been<br/>
for a long time a confirmed gambler,<br/>
which fully explained, as a matter of<br/>
course, all that had previously been<br/>
incomprehensible in his character. One<br/>
of the most thrilling of the dramas of<br/>
a former day is “The Gambler’s Fate.”<br/>
but it presents nothing that equals tho<br/>
closing scene of this modern tragedy<br/>
of real life."{{< news/indent4 >}}Pacific.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"The Record" on Sir John
Lawrence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The peace of India has been well<br/>
maintained, if we except the Bhootan<br/>
war, which has just been terminated<br/>
by a treaty, the merits of which are<br/>
still under discussion. There can be<br/>
no doubt that a war with savage hill-<br/>
men, in a deadly climate, and at a<br/>
distance from the centre of power, is<br/>
no evil to be abated at any sacrifice<br/>
consistent with the Imperial honour<br/>
and the Imperial safety. We have full<br/>
confidence that both will be maintained<br/>
by Sir John Lawrence, in spite of the<br/>
ceaseless efforts of detractors, one sec-<br/>
tion of whom hate him for his religion,<br/>
which rebukes their ungodliness and<br/>
immorality, whilst another section<br/>
entertains opinions hostile to some of<br/>
his views of Indian policy. There is<br/>
a third party, who are affronted by<br/>
the simplicity of the Viceroy's habits,<br/>
and the absence of that Oriental splen-<br/>
dour in which his most illustrious<br/>
predecessors were accustomed to in-<br/>
dulge. It is possible that Sir John<br/>
Lawrence errs on the side of simplicity,<br/>
and forgets how Napoleon, when he<br/>
rose to power, remarked with eagle-<br/>
eye, and philosophie truth, as he look-<br/>
ed from his window on the Tuileries,<br/>
on the obvious impression produced<br/>
even on the revolutionary mobs by<br/>
gay uniforms and glittering decorations.<br/>
If this were true of human nature in<br/>
France, much more must it be so in<br/>
India, where the people have been so<br/>
long accustomed to barbarie pomp and<br/>
splendour. It may be also, as has<br/>
been alleged, that some of the Vice-<br/>
roy's retinue, in their zeal for economy,<br/>
have carried his own views on the<br/>
subject further than he intended. It<br/>
is a fault easily corrected, and if it<br/>
has somewhat paled the blaze of his<br/>
just popularity, it never can extinguish<br/>
the memory of that vigorous policy<br/>
which saved the empire of India, nor<br/>
materially counteract the efficiency of<br/>
the great talents, and the vast experi-<br/>
ence, by which God has been pleased<br/>
to render this Christian Viceroy so<br/>
great an ornament to Her Majesty and<br/>
her subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Quarrelling.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If anything in the world will make<br/>
a man feel badly, except pinching his<br/>
fingers in the crack of a door, it is,<br/>
unquestionably a quarrel. No man<br/>
ever fails to think less of himself af-<br/>
ter it than before. It degrades him in<br/>
the eyes of others, and what is worse,<br/>
blunts his sensibilities on one hand,<br/>
and increases the power of passionate<br/>
irritability on the other. The truth is,<br/>
the more peaceably and quietly we<br/>
get on, the better for our neighbours.<br/>
In nine cases out of ten, the better<br/>
course is, if a man cheats you, quit<br/>
dealing with him: if he abuses you,<br/>
quit his company: if he slanders you,<br/>
take care to live so that no one will<br/>
believe him. No matter who he is or<br/>
how he injures you, the wisest way<br/>
is to let him alone: for there is noth-<br/>
ing better than the cool, calm, and<br/>
quiet way of dealing with the wrongs<br/>
we meet with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Editorial Treadmill.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Home Journal thus describes<br/>
the editor's burdens:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is one of the hardships of our<br/>
profession that its working wheels—<br/>
brains and heart—are not allowed to<br/>
lag for sickness or to stop for calami-<br/>
ty or sorrow. The Judge may ad-<br/>
journ his court, the school and work-<br/>
shop may close their shutters, the<br/>
mourner may wail his features, and<br/>
turn friend and change from the door;<br/>
but the journalists must forget be-<br/>
fore to-morrow the sorrows of to-day,<br/>
must write gaily and freshly as a<br/>
newsmonger, on the trifle of the hour,<br/>
whatever burden has been laid up-<br/>
on that same hour by providence<br/>
on his brains as a man. It sometimes<br/>
tries and mocks as the world that<br/>
reads what is thus written would never<br/>
dream of. The public looks upon the<br/>
editor's labors as the Indian did upon<br/>
the man that was cutting hay. He<br/>
finally gave in his opinion that it was<br/>
“nice to see the white man mow.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
March 22nd 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BRIGHTENING HOPES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is with a good deal of hope we<br/>
hear that the Siamese government was<br/>
probably more in play than in earnest<br/>
in ridiculing Electric Telegraphs as ap-<br/>
peared in our issue of the 8th inst.<br/>
We are informed that the government<br/>
would be glad to have a Telegraph<br/>
line established between the King's<br/>
palace and the Bar provided it can<br/>
be done by a company purely inde-<br/>
pendent of government money, and<br/>
with such limitations as will give the<br/>
government control of the line in<br/>
times of war when she might be im-<br/>
peded by the want of such control.<br/>
If the Siamese government has indeed<br/>
advanced thus far, we shall think we<br/>
have good reason to hope she will take<br/>
other steps still more encouraging in<br/>
the same direction, until Bangkok<br/>
shall not only be in telegraphic com-<br/>
munication with Paknam and the<br/>
Bar, but also with Singapore, Tavoy,<br/>
Maulmain, Rangoon, and Calcutta—<br/>
nay with all the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are also cheered in our hopes<br/>
for the welfare of Siam by hearing<br/>
that the Siamese government is en-<br/>
tertaining quite seriously the pro-<br/>
position of a company in Singapore,<br/>
having connections in London, of grant-<br/>
ing to said company or to the English<br/>
government the privilege of establish-<br/>
ing a Telegraphic line in Siamese<br/>
territory that shall bring Maulmain,<br/>
Tavoy, and Singapore into electric<br/>
communication with Bangkok, and<br/>
that government has dispatched an<br/>
officer with letters to all the Siamese<br/>
provinces within the Malayan peninsula<br/>
seeking information relative to this<br/>
question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most heartily would we advise the<br/>
Siamese government to allow British<br/>
subjects to secure such interests within<br/>
her dominions, for we are persuaded<br/>
that it will tend to make England her<br/>
friend indeed in any future time of<br/>
need.—-Siam feels that she is still weak<br/>
and far behind the western nations in<br/>
very many respects, and this we regard<br/>
as a good indication for her future<br/>
prosperity provided it be accompanied<br/>
by a determination to increase in<br/>
knowledge and righteous power. The<br/>
Siamese government, we are persuaded,<br/>
has too much good sense to flatter her-<br/>
self that in this age of the world she<br/>
can stand wholly independent of the<br/>
protection of one or more of the great<br/>
western powers which have become<br/>
her near neighbors. It seems to us<br/>
that she should choose quickly in which<br/>
of these neighbors, her western or her<br/>
eastern, she will henceforward place her<br/>
chief reliance as a protector. France,<br/>
if she be faithful, will protect Cambo-<br/>
dia for Siam, and not with any inten-<br/>
tion of ever annexing her to her own<br/>
dominions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a fixed fact, and settled for ever,<br/>
we think, that England desires no more<br/>
extension, and will do every thing she<br/>
can honorably to avoid any further<br/>
annexation to her vast territory. Hence<br/>
Siam has no reason to fear that if she<br/>
herself be in a good degree faithful to<br/>
her treaty relations with Great Britain,<br/>
that she will ever be absorbed by her.<br/>
Nay she may most confidently expect<br/>
England to exert her powerful in-<br/>
fluence to strengthen and perpetuate<br/>
her as an independent nation. What<br/>
other neighboring power so strong, so<br/>
wise and so good can she find in which<br/>
to strengthen herself? She needs the<br/>
arm of a western power the least grasp-<br/>
ing, subtle, unreasonable, and ex-<br/>
horbitant: for all nations are prone to<br/>
have more or less of these unhappy qual-<br/>
ities. Let her loose no time in making<br/>
a selection in view of facts that have<br/>
but recently transpired. If she pre-<br/>
fer England for her ally though not<br/>
in form but in fact—-a power which she<br/>
has happily lived with as her western<br/>
neighbor for scores of years, let her<br/>
open the way more and more for Eng-<br/>
land to become mutually interested in<br/>
the welfare of Siam. Let England<br/>
have the privilege of Telegraph lines<br/>
in her territory, and a railroad as is<br/>
proposed across the isthmus of Kraw,<br/>
and a ship canal, even, in the same lo-<br/>
cality. In this way Siam may obtain<br/>
a powerful protector with but little<br/>
expense, and with no sacrifice of hon-<br/>
or, but a positive acquisition of power<br/>
and glory.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
JOHN COLLINS WARREN M. D.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Through the kindness of a Boston<br/>
friend, we have recently enjoyed the<br/>
perusal of a neatly executed work of<br/>
two octavo volumes, comprising more.<br/>
than 800 pages entitled The Life of<br/>
JOHN COLLINS WARREN M. D. Who<br/>
died at his residence in Boston May<br/>
4th 1856 aged nearly eighty years.<br/>
He was the elder, if we mistake not,<br/>
and perhaps the more skillful of two<br/>
illustrious American surgeons, who<br/>
had no equals in their profession with-<br/>
in the limits of the great American<br/>
Republic, if indeed any superiors in<br/>
Europe. The man alluded to as be-<br/>
ing so nearly his equal was VALEN-<br/>
TINE MOTT M. D. of New York city<br/>
who died two or three years since full<br/>
of riches and honors both temporal<br/>
and spiritual.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was our privilege in youth to sit<br/>
at the feet of both of these great and<br/>
good men. Would that we had made<br/>
a better improvement of the extraor-<br/>
dinary opportunities we then enjoyed<br/>
—-more especially that we had copied<br/>
more closely their benevolence. In<br/>
honor of Dr. John C. Warren our es-<br/>
teemed preceptor, and to the praise of<br/>
divine grace which wrought effectually<br/>
in him, we would now speak more es-<br/>
pecially of his christian character.<br/>
And in doing so we feel that we can-<br/>
not do better than to quote two brief<br/>
extracts from the work to which we<br/>
have referred. The first that we se-<br/>
lect is from a letter which he wrote to<br/>
his wife and children twenty three<br/>
years before his death, and one year<br/>
after we had received our last lessons<br/>
in anatomy and surgery from his lips.<br/>
It is the closing paragraph of his will,<br/>
which though in usual health, he felt<br/>
it to be his duty to have always in<br/>
readiness for a sudden death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“May God Almighty, in his infi-<br/>
nite mercy, take you and my dear<br/>
children in his holy keeping, and pre-<br/>
serve you from the snares and dang-<br/>
ers of this world. May he give you<br/>
an awful and overpowering sense of the<br/>
amazing change which you must soon<br/>
be called to pass through! and by this<br/>
may he bring your hearts to feel the<br/>
indescribable importance of a full pre-<br/>
paration for this change, and a solemn<br/>
conviction that you have no hope of<br/>
salvation but by a perfect feeling of<br/>
your own unworthiness, and of the<br/>
absolute necessity of placing your<br/>
whole trust and confidence in the<br/>
atoning blood of your blessed Saviour<br/>
and Mediator Jesus Christ, which<br/>
alone is able to purify and justify you,<br/>
and bring you to the mansions of<br/>
everlasting happiness! May God bless<br/>
you all, is the prayer of your affec-<br/>
tionate husband and father.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such sobriety and solemnity we think<br/>
was eminently characteristic of the<br/>
whole christian life of Doctor Warren.<br/>
—-The following extract from his pri-<br/>
vate papers will show how much this<br/>
physician and surgeon of a world<br/>
wide renown loved the words of<br/>
Jesus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I never read this Chapter (XIV)<br/>
without experiencing a species of de-<br/>
light, which scarcely anything else<br/>
has power to excite,—a holy fervor<br/>
combined with melting tenderness. I<br/>
can almost realize the scene where<br/>
the heavenly comforter poured upon<br/>
the hearts of his mourning and won-<br/>
dering disciples the unction from above,<br/>
which rendered them superior to temp-<br/>
tation, and patient amid scenes of<br/>
tribulation. ‘I will come to you.<br/>
Yet a little while and the world seeth<br/>
me no more; but ye see me; because<br/>
I live, ye shall live also.’ These words<br/>
have sometimes been to my heart<br/>
what oil is to the commotion of the<br/>
billow. And shall this heart which<br/>
is capable of immortal blessedness<br/>
and expansion, resign its high privile-<br/>
ges and shrink from its exalted<br/>
duties?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I pray God to grant me strength to<br/>
renounce firmly, deliberately, and re-<br/>
ligiously every earthly hope. I desire<br/>
to preserve my heart from the danger<br/>
of creating an idol in his own temple,<br/>
and to be constant in my supplica-<br/>
tions to the Spirit who is the Sancti-<br/>
fier that will make of my heart a a<br/>
spotless sanctuary for his own abode.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How refreshing is it to look at a<br/>
man on the very pinnacle of eminence<br/>
in a learned profession, which is often<br/>
erroneously thought to be infidel in its<br/>
tendencies, so Christ-like in his daily<br/>
walk among men! The whole work<br/>
shows with charming clearness that a<br/>
life long seriousness and solemnity<br/>
with regard to the eternal future, and<br/>
a continual pressing onward and up-<br/>
ward towards heaven is no hinderance<br/>
or damper in the pursuit of the greatest<br/>
celebrity in the arts and sciences.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COCOANUT TREES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Cocoanut trees in<br/>
Siam are being rapidly destroyed by<br/>
grub worms which eat out their vitals<br/>
at their tops. This is said to be one<br/>
cause of the high price now ruling for<br/>
cocoanuts and cocoanut oil. Twen-<br/>
ty catties in weight sells for about six<br/>
Ticals. This high price has so long<br/>
ruled that cocoanut oil is now being<br/>
imported at a fair profit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that that disease among<br/>
the trees may be greatly controlled<br/>
by human skill. It has long been<br/>
known in this eastern world, and the<br/>
most successful treatment would seem<br/>
to be one akin to that of extinguishing<br/>
a conflagration. The trees that have<br/>
already been killed by the grubs and<br/>
all such as show unmistakable signs of<br/>
having grubs at work in them, must be<br/>
cut down and the animals killed. The<br/>
natives say they make excellent food<br/>
when cooked with the milk of the co-<br/>
coanut!—-so they need not be lost.<br/>
But it manifestly is too expensive to<br/>
cultivate them in the tops of cocoanut<br/>
trees. If left to themselves the grubs<br/>
by some means or other quickly take<br/>
possession of neighboring trees and<br/>
thus the destruction spreads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to us that the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment, if she would have Siam con-<br/>
tinue to be enriched and beautified<br/>
by the cocus nucifera, she should<br/>
promptly issue a proclamation to have<br/>
all owners of cocoanut trees, cut down<br/>
forthwith all trees that have recently<br/>
died and such as are dying of this<br/>
disease, and require them to burn up<br/>
or eat up, as they may prefer, all the<br/>
grubs that are living in them. This<br/>
course will certainly stay the plague<br/>
and no other will.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
H. S. M. G. B. IMPREGNABLE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have called on board His Siam-<br/>
ese Majesty's Gun Boat Impregnable to<br/>
have a look at the beautiful creature<br/>
as she is riding at anchor near our<br/>
dwelling. As you look at her from<br/>
without you are forced at once to ex-<br/>
claim—How completely European and<br/>
modern she is in all her appearance!<br/>
You can scarcely believe that she was<br/>
made in Siam and is manned entirely<br/>
by Siamese marines. And when you<br/>
come to step on board, and have a<br/>
close inspection of every part of the rig-<br/>
ging, the guns, the magazine, the saloon<br/>
the captain's cabin, the berths etc. you<br/>
become more than satisfied that the<br/>
Siamese are not a whit behind the<br/>
Chinese in their inititative powers.<br/>
And if you had been long intimately<br/>
acquainted with his Majesty Prabat<br/>
Pra-Pin Klow, the late second king as<br/>
we have been, you will not fail to see<br/>
his ingenuity, and skill, and neatness<br/>
and good taste imprinted on every<br/>
thing you see connected with the ves-<br/>
sel; for she belonged to him and was<br/>
his last work in that line.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Daniel Maclean Esq. our most dis-<br/>
tinguished ship builder, we are in-<br/>
formed, was the designer of this spright-<br/>
ly vessel by which he will be honored.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Impregnable" carries 1 Com-<br/>
mon gun-a 32 pounder, 2 Brass How-<br/>
etsers-24 pounders, and 1 Armstrong<br/>
gun-a 40 pounder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain E. C. Walrond has by long<br/>
patience. and a good name, through<br/>
the influence of H. B. M's Consul<br/>
George T. Knox Esq. obtained a fine<br/>
berth for the display of his talents in<br/>
the Siamese navy. We hope and trust<br/>
he will prove himself well worthy of<br/>
his position. His men, numbering<br/>
more than fifty, look wonderfully neat<br/>
and able bodied for Siamese: but they<br/>
need yet much training in working<br/>
the guns ere they will stand a compar-<br/>
ison with European artillerymen. We<br/>
will with patience wait and see what<br/>
Capt. We can make of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the "Bangkok Recorder"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. EDITOR ;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You are aware that I have heard<br/>
from Ulysses. Poor fellow! he is<br/>
wandering still, but it is apparently<br/>
a kind of mental aberration, worse by<br/>
far than a twenty years at sea. You<br/>
are also aware that he once feigned<br/>
dementation, lest he should be obliged<br/>
to leave his darling Penelope for a<br/>
Trojan war. He yoked the horse,<br/>
and bull together, and ploughed the<br/>
sea shore, and sowed salt. The com-<br/>
munication from him associates things<br/>
as unseemingly, as the yoking of the<br/>
horse and the ox, and also has appa-<br/>
rently a sprinkling of salt ; yet it is<br/>
not what I would have expected from<br/>
my long lost Ulysses. So different<br/>
is it from him, that I am sometimes<br/>
inclined to think, that some one has<br/>
disguised her sex, and assumed that<br/>
revered name, in order to tantalize<br/>
me. Look for a moment at the first<br/>
sentence of this wonderful communi-<br/>
cation. "It is a tempting the meof<br/>
speculation, and as it has already<br/>
been broached in your last two issues,<br/>
worth our while to follow it up in<br/>
imagination; but it must be done<br/>
with a mind clearly alive to every step<br/>
won in philosophy, every discovery<br/>
in science, every marked token of so-<br/>
cial advance, and progress of every<br/>
shape whatever—-with a liberal heart;<br/>
by which I mean a mind not narrowed<br/>
by its own acts, and opinions as the<br/>
minds of benevolent and truly pious<br/>
people are apt to be, but with a mind<br/>
respectful to every sort of individual-<br/>
ity, indulgent to all established cus-<br/>
toms or constitutional peculiarities as<br/>
to what the world would be without<br/>
dancing—-the twin sister of which is<br/>
music." You will recollect in the<br/>
outstart I laid no special claims to lit-<br/>
erary ability, and perhaps it may be<br/>
my obtuseness, but I confess that I<br/>
am unable to analyze this sentence so<br/>
as to make any sense out of it. The<br/>
thing predicated appears to be purely<br/>
in the imagination, and that is " what<br/>
the world would be without dancing."<br/>
But the mind capable of imagining<br/>
such a thing must be so broad, so<br/>
comprehensive, so benevolent, and so<br/>
indulgent to every fault, and peculiari-<br/>
ty, that I suppose no one person upon<br/>
earth even has or ever will possess it.<br/>
To find such a mind we would have<br/>
to fuse some of the greatest and most<br/>
benevolent minds upon earth, or call<br/>
down some eminent saint, whose men-<br/>
tal powers have long been expanding<br/>
in a world of glory. But after all, it<br/>
would not be difficult to imagine what<br/>
the world would be without dancing, in<br/>
its modern acceptation of the term. It<br/>
may be called the twin sister of mu-<br/>
sic; but they should both be the<br/>
handmaidens of religion. They were<br/>
originally so intended. The ancient<br/>
Hebrews, and Egyptians, frequently<br/>
accompanied their religious ceremo-<br/>
nies with music, and dancing; but<br/>
it consisted of little more than giving<br/>
expression to the feelings in gesticula-<br/>
tions, indicative of certain mental<br/>
emotions. The Greeks borrowed it<br/>
from the Egyptians. Polished and<br/>
improved by them, it was introduced<br/>
into all their festive ceremonies. They<br/>
were an athletic people, setting much<br/>
store upon bodily exercises, and<br/>
amongst them it still answered a good<br/>
purpose. The Romans again borrow-<br/>
ed from the Greeks, but their "salta[?]tio"<br/>
was still a gymnastic, and mimo-<br/>
tic exercises. Dancing became some-<br/>
what separated from religion among<br/>
the Greeks and Romans; but Plato<br/>
thought that all dancing should be<br/>
connected with religion, and based<br/>
upon it, as among the Egyptians. But<br/>
I believe the sexes did not mingle,<br/>
in the dances of any of those nations.<br/>
Dancing has become wholly divorced<br/>
from religion, as we find it now in this<br/>
Spanish fandango, the French quad-<br/>
rille and cotillion, and the German<br/>
waltz and gallopade. It has now<br/>
nothing in common with that of the<br/>
Hebrews, and Egyptians, and very<br/>
little with that of the Greeks and<br/>
Romans. Amongst modern heathen<br/>
nations we find it performed by hired<br/>
dancers, mostly female, for the amuse-<br/>
ment of those in higher life. If it<br/>
ever was an "inherent physical law,"<br/>
in its modern form, it has certainly<br/>
lost all that made it valuable as a<br/>
physical exercise. The attempt to<br/>
make it graceful has robbed it of all<br/>
those wild gesticulations, which gave<br/>
the "broad shoulders" to the Greeks.<br/>
Instead of being the "pleasant, ex-<br/>
hilarating, graceful study of every<br/>
well regulated" family, it frequently<br/>
destroys the peace and happiness of<br/>
those families where it is admitted.<br/>
The best regulated christian families,<br/>
will have nothing to do with it. Other<br/>
and far better physical exercises are<br/>
now provided in well regulated chris-<br/>
tian families, such as gymnastics and<br/>
calisthenics. As a physical exercise<br/>
alone it must be admitted that mod-<br/>
ern dancing is sadly deficient. It is<br/>
too local,—exercising only the lower<br/>
extremities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But in the communication in ques-<br/>
tion, we find the following remarkable<br/>
sentence. "And so blinded are some<br/>
really good worthy people in this mat-<br/>
ter, that they would prohibit danc-<br/>
ing, forsooth of its evil tendencies,<br/>
and all exhibitions of physical strength<br/>
as belonging to the barbaric ages, and<br/>
attempt to give us a maximum of<br/>
saintliness[?] with a minimum of pul-<br/>
monary digestive and weak morbid<br/>
capacity."—-" Parvum in multo"! But<br/>
suppose, for instance, that modern danc-<br/>
ing is not immoral in its tendencies,<br/>
shall one upon examination find it a<br/>
healthy exercise favorable to physical<br/>
development? I fear not. Take one<br/>
of our cities in Europe or America<br/>
where balls and select dancing parties<br/>
are the amusement of many the whole<br/>
year round. Four and five nights in<br/>
the week, are given to it. Nearly, if<br/>
not all, of the ladies’ time is wasted<br/>
in preparation. The hours allotted to<br/>
sleep, by nature, are spent in dancing.<br/>
Ladies attend those balls in cold damp<br/>
weather so thinly clad, and with shoes<br/>
never intended to keep the feet warm,<br/>
but merely to cover them. Exercising<br/>
violently in a warm ill ventilated<br/>
room, they return home at early<br/>
dawn chilled by the freshness of the<br/>
morning air. Nature has been robbed<br/>
of its necessary repose, and the whole<br/>
system is relaxed. Such a course, in<br/>
very many instances, results in severe<br/>
colds, pulmonary disease, and prema-<br/>
ture death. This is no fancy picture.<br/>
Every physician’s diary will attest<br/>
its truth. Thousands, especially<br/>
of young females, are thus hurried<br/>
prematurely into eternity. Yet those<br/>
“saints” who would dare say a word<br/>
against the practice, are held up by<br/>
would be philanthropists, great and<br/>
broad freethinkers, and pseudo-be-<br/>
nefactors of the race, as the “worst<br/>
sinners upon earth.” Dancing has al-<br/>
ways been found to be a damper up-<br/>
on religious feelings, and impressions<br/>
in any community, because it absorbs<br/>
the whole time and thoughts of the<br/>
young, and draws them from the con-<br/>
templation of those eternal things,<br/>
which pertain to their eternal welfare.<br/>
For that reason pious parents dread<br/>
its influence upon their children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I do not think it advisable here to<br/>
enter into those details, which good peo-<br/>
ple think constitute the immoral ten-<br/>
dencies of dancing. I only, for<br/>
instance, mention the _Waltz_, and ap-<br/>
peal to all candid and impartial,<br/>
thinkers upon the subject, if they<br/>
can see nothing unbecoming in it!<br/>
When taken in connection with the<br/>
present modes of female dress, what<br/>
are likely to be its tendencies upon<br/>
the young? I acknowledge no such<br/>
pseudo-philosophy as that “_every_<br/>
social enjoyment is indifferent.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am referred to my canary bird as<br/>
an example of that inherent principle<br/>
for dancing in nature. I don’t believe<br/>
he even thought of dancing, or I at<br/>
least have never seen any thing to in-<br/>
dicate it. He is a good singer, and<br/>
he knows it, and like some ladies, is<br/>
probably charmed with the sound of<br/>
his own voice. If he ever thought of<br/>
dancing, it was merely a leaping for<br/>
joy like David at the sight of the ark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am also pointed back to the days of<br/>
Queen Elizabeth for example of prac-<br/>
tical piety. Because Sir Walter Ra-<br/>
leigh led the fair old Queen to the<br/>
country dance, and they were christ-<br/>
ians, therefore dancing is not immoral<br/>
in its tendencies. Whilst there were<br/>
many things, both in the Queen, and<br/>
Sir Walter which all admire, and will<br/>
ever cherish in fond remembrance,<br/>
still there were also many things<br/>
which christians of the present day<br/>
must condemn. They lived too near<br/>
the middle ages, and we must not<br/>
overlook the times in which they lived.<br/>
Sir Walter thought it not wrong at<br/>
one time to receive a heavy bribe, and<br/>
I presume there are few christians<br/>
who would advocate bribery because<br/>
he received one. Says a writer on those<br/>
times, “A transaction so shameless,<br/>
has no other apology than that it was<br/>
not condemned by the opinion of the<br/>
age.” Happily, however, for the<br/>
church, and the world, times and<br/>
“_Saints_” are changing. I know of<br/>
no respectable religious denomination<br/>
now, in the U. S. at least, that would<br/>
advocate promiscuous dancing as a<br/>
healthy physical exercise. And here<br/>
I may state for the benefit of my pe-<br/>
culiarly sensitive readers, that by pro-<br/>
miscuous dancing I mean ladies. and<br/>
gentlemen dancing together, rather<br/>
than each sex dancing alone. By danc-<br/>
ing I refer to dancing in general, and<br/>
not that suggested by an “elegantly<br/>
managed ball” or any ball in parti-<br/>
cular.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Happily for the church, too, men do<br/>
not now, as a general thing, present<br/>
their “puny brainless offspring” to<br/>
the church and God, that they may<br/>
secure a “living.” There is a free<br/>
church where men voluntarily lay<br/>
their best offspring upon the altar of<br/>
the Lord. The talent in the ministry<br/>
of the present day is equal to, and if<br/>
any thing surpasses that of any other<br/>
of the learned professions.<br/>
There are many other fings in the<br/>
communication which I cannot con-<br/>
descend to notice. It winds up with<br/>
the following egotistic flourish. "But<br/>
after all it is my private opinion, that<br/>
too much thought is given to the<br/>
next world, by a "Vinegar" whole-<br/>
sale denunciation of the present.<br/>
One world ought to be enough for us<br/>
to manage at a time etc., etc." Any<br/>
thing so Jesuitical, and at the same<br/>
time so sceptical, I did not expect to<br/>
find in this community. At one sweep<br/>
it takes away the whole object of the<br/>
plan of salvation, and the teachings<br/>
of scripture. For Paul says "If in<br/>
this life only we have hope in Christ,<br/>
we are of all men most miserable."<br/>
Any one holding such sentiments as<br/>
these, is really more to be pitied<br/>
than the Fangs of Africa or the<br/>
Steins of Cambodia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PENELOPE BROWN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Chow Phya" sailed from the<br/>
bar at 6 P. M. on the 17 inst. having on<br/>
board as passengers H. D. Thompson<br/>
Esq. Mr. Abdool Russel, & Mr. Farnby.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that an estimate for<br/>
a Telegraphic line from His Majesty's<br/>
Palace to the Bar has been submitted<br/>
for the consideration of the Govern-<br/>
ment. H. B. M.'s Consul we hear for-<br/>
warded the document in question to the<br/>
authorities accompanied no doubt with<br/>
the recommendation that the line<br/>
should be in the hands of the govern-<br/>
ment, and not of private individuals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent, writing from Maul-<br/>
main informs us "That authentic intel-<br/>
ligence has been received of the chief<br/>
of Zimmoy having attacked Mr Burn's<br/>
forester encampment in the My-long-<br/>
kee forests, without warning, with a<br/>
force of over 200 men, killing four of<br/>
the party, and displaying their heads<br/>
stuck on bamboos outside of the en-<br/>
campment, and wounded other four,<br/>
out of a party of thirty five. Thirteen<br/>
of the party are missing and no ac-<br/>
counts can be had of them. After the<br/>
attack the said forests were taken pos-<br/>
session of by the Chief and all the wood<br/>
found therein he stamped with the el-<br/>
ephant stamp. There is a report very<br/>
generally believed that the My-long-<br/>
kee Chief has thrown off his allegiance<br/>
to the king of Siam, and has joined the<br/>
Burman government."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Officers from the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment have, we ascertained, been sent<br/>
up to ascertain the truth of the<br/>
many reports that have reached<br/>
this country, and in a few days the<br/>
scouts will doubtless lay their reports<br/>
before the authorities that be. We<br/>
did hear that the chief is actually on<br/>
his way to Bangkok, but this is too<br/>
good to be relied upon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Low Poh Yim retains the opium<br/>
farm for other two years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that the "Impregnable"<br/>
Captain E. C. Walrond, will run the<br/>
mails for Singapore while the "Chow<br/>
Phya" is in dock. With such advan-<br/>
tages as are possessed by the "Bangkok<br/>
Dock Company," it is to be hoped that<br/>
the enterprising owners of the said<br/>
Steamer will patronise the local estab-<br/>
lishment in preference to the Singapore<br/>
one. The undertaking deserves well at<br/>
the hands of our wealthy ship-owners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are given to understand that an<br/>
iron bridge is to be thrown across the<br/>
Klong Koot Mei in place of the wood-<br/>
en one which is now across it, and<br/>
preparations have commenced for its<br/>
erection, by pulling down the houses<br/>
near the bridge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. E. Chow Phya Kalahome the<br/>
Prime Minister left this city on the<br/>
evening of the 19th inst. per Steamer<br/>
"Volant" for Petchaburee, to make<br/>
preparation for the reception of His<br/>
Majesty the king at the royal moun-<br/>
tain palace in that vicinity. His Maj-<br/>
esty we hear has postponed his depar-<br/>
ture thence to Sunday the 25th inst.<br/>
He is expected to be absent about ten<br/>
days.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
English opinion on the
Bhootan Treaty.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ENGLAND has uttered no uncertain<br/>
sound on the humiliating policy which<br/>
dictated the Bhootan treaty. All the<br/>
leading, daily, and weekly journals have<br/>
condemned it except the Daily News<br/>
and the Times. The former is the<br/>
organ of the peace-at-any-price party;<br/>
[?]It spake the thoughts of the purely util-<br/>
itarian school of trade-politicians; 'it<br/>
is the exponent of Goldwin Smith who<br/>
would go so far as to give up every colo-<br/>
ny and military settlement which Eng-<br/>
land possesses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will be observed that all these<br/>
opinions against the Treaty are based<br/>
on purely moral and political consid-<br/>
erations, and do not question the<br/>
soundness of the facts as to the difficul-<br/>
ty and desolation of the country, and<br/>
the necessity for mercy to its rulers,<br/>
on which alone the authors of the<br/>
Treaty rest their defence. But it is<br/>
satisfactory to find an authority like<br/>
Dr. J. D. Hooker, who has roamed<br/>
over Sikkim and in his book has told<br/>
us more of Bhootan than any other,<br/>
thus writing in the Times:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“It is asserted that the Bhootanese<br/>
would starve but for the Dooars we pro-<br/>
pose to occupy, and for which we are to<br/>
pay them rent. This is is a mistake.<br/>
They cling to the Dooars because they<br/>
there hold a timid race in slavery to grow<br/>
crops which go partly to support them-<br/>
selves in idleness, while the rest is sold<br/>
on the frontier to feed the Chinese troops<br/>
at L’Hassa. Bhootan consists of a series<br/>
of magnificent valleys as long as England<br/>
is broad, where between 1,000 and 7,000<br/>
feet elevation, rice, maize, millet, &c., are<br/>
grown without tillage or irrigation, and a-<br/>
bove that elevation all European grains<br/>
and vegetables flourish; its forests are im-<br/>
mense and its timber excellent, while cat-<br/>
tle, ponies, sheep, poultry are abundant<br/>
and of most excellent quality. Sikkim, a<br/>
far less productive province, was equally<br/>
regarded as an unproductive wilderness,<br/>
but has been redeemed from barbarism,<br/>
and under every discouragement made to<br/>
yield a revenue through the exertions of<br/>
its late political agent and superintendent.<br/>
Dr. Campbell; and half-a-dozen such men<br/>
in Bhootan, with the frontier open on the<br/>
north, and Assam to supply tea, rice, su-<br/>
gar, tobacco, &c., in the south, would raise<br/>
a splendid revenue in a few years, and<br/>
civilize a vast tract of country now held<br/>
by a nation of as treacherous, indolent,<br/>
debauched, and priest-ridden barbarians<br/>
as the world ever saw.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If any confidence is to be placed in<br/>
the united testimony of every authori-<br/>
ty who has really penetrated the coun-<br/>
try, from Major Turner to the mem-<br/>
bers of Lord Elgin’s Mission, this is<br/>
true. It is much more true of West<br/>
than of East Bhootan where the Tong-<br/>
so Penlow rules. But those who hold<br/>
an opposite opinion, who paint the<br/>
barren hills, the howling ravines, the<br/>
pathless valleys, the malarious jungle,<br/>
and the poverty-stricken land, are the<br/>
military or civil authorities who have<br/>
never gone ten miles beyond Buxa<br/>
and Dewangiri, or who think that be-<br/>
cause the hill country has been mis-<br/>
governed and depopulated it is incapa-<br/>
ble of becoming prosperous. At pre-<br/>
sent the bulk of the testimony of eye-<br/>
witnesses, as given in the Blue Book,<br/>
and stated by Dr. Hooker, is against<br/>
the lugubrious apology of our humi-<br/>
liated Government. Whether, there-<br/>
fore, we look to honour, which the<br/>
authors of the Treaty admit to have<br/>
been sacrificed, or to difficulties which<br/>
the most reliable testimony shows to<br/>
be exaggerated, in the present state of<br/>
our information, the almost unanimous<br/>
verdict of England and India against<br/>
the Treaty is fully justified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Friend of India
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jamaica.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We suppose that most of our readers<br/>
have read, in the daily papers, the<br/>
particulars of what is called the insur-<br/>
rection in Jamaica and its suppression.<br/>
We shall therefore only touch on a<br/>
few of the more prominent points.<br/>
And, first of all, there is not a title of<br/>
evidence produced by Governor Eyre<br/>
to show that there existed any con-<br/>
spiracy at all. The existence of an<br/>
intended insurrection seems to rest<br/>
only on vague rumors, arising, doubt-<br/>
less, from the fears of the conscience-<br/>
stricken planters. That extensive and<br/>
well-grounded discontent existed<br/>
throughout the island is unquestionable<br/>
from sources quite independent of Gov.<br/>
Eyre; but that there was any scheme<br/>
for the general extermination of the<br/>
whites and browns, there has as yet<br/>
been nothing like evidence to show.<br/>
The fact that Mr. George W. Gordon,<br/>
who was extra judicially murdered as<br/>
the chief promoter of this conspiracy,<br/>
was a brown man with a white wife<br/>
would seem to be a sufficient con-<br/>
tradiction of this assertion. A bloody, <br/>
but by no means unprovoked, riot at<br/>
Morant Bay seems to be the only fact<br/>
established by evidence of any violence<br/>
committed or contemplated by the<br/>
negroes before the massacres began.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The original cause of the riot was a<br/>
question of disputed title, which ex-<br/>
cited general interest among the<br/>
negroes, whose demonstration of it an-<br/>
noyed the court, who ordered one of<br/>
them into custody. He was rescued.<br/>
This was on Saturday. Warrants<br/>
were issued for the arrest of the re-<br/>
cuers; which were resisted. On the<br/>
next meeting of the court, on Wed-<br/>
nesday, a great body of negroes came<br/>
down to attend it. There was noth-<br/>
ing but their numbers that rendered<br/>
them formidable. There is no evid-<br/>
ence whatever that they had any pur-<br/>
poses of violence. The magistrates<br/>
had a small force of eighteen volunteers,<br/>
who, after a hasty reading of the riot<br/>
act, fired on the blacks, killing and<br/>
wounding several of them. Then the<br/>
blacks rushed in, overpowered the<br/>
volunteers, sacked the court-house,<br/>
killed several of the magistrates, of the<br/>
police, and the volunteers. Other acts<br/>
of violence on the part of the negroes<br/>
are reported, with particulars of atroc-<br/>
ities attending them, which all want<br/>
any authentication excepting rumor.<br/>
That acts were thus committed which<br/>
deserved punishment we may well be-<br/>
lieve; but that these riots were any<br/>
part of a concerted movement on the<br/>
part of the negroes does not any where<br/>
appear. It will be remembered that<br/>
they were fired on fatally, without any<br/>
absolute necessity, before there was<br/>
any blood shed by them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On this provocation the governor<br/>
proclaimed martial law in that district,<br/>
excepting Kingston, the capital, and<br/>
immediately proceeded to hang, shoot,<br/>
and whip men and women right and<br/>
left. The troops perambulated the<br/>
region, without meeting with a symp-<br/>
tom of armed resistance, arresting,<br/>
hanging, and shooting all and singular<br/>
that they come across. One gallant<br/>
officer, having taken more prisoners<br/>
than he could well guard, made sure<br/>
of them by shooting them on the spot,<br/>
without even the ceremony of a drum-<br/>
head court-martial. A large number<br/>
of men and women, some fifty or<br/>
there-abouts, were arrested by another,<br/>
and, as nothing whatever was brought<br/>
against them, their lives were mer-<br/>
cifully spared, and they were only tied<br/>
successively to a gun and fifty lashes<br/>
administered on their bare backs.<br/>
One of them, indeed, presuming to<br/>
gnash his teeth and give a disrespect-<br/>
ful look at the presiding officer, at the<br/>
forty-seventh lash, was instantly strung<br/>
up to teach him better manners. But<br/>
the case which will excite the most<br/>
attention in England, doubtless, from<br/>
the fact that the victim was a man of<br/>
wealth and position, and a member of<br/>
the assembly was that of Mr. G. W.<br/>
Gordon, before mentioned. This gen-<br/>
tleman had made himself odious to the<br/>
government of the island and the pro-<br/>
prietary class by his zeal in behalf of<br/>
the blacks. He was in Kingston, far<br/>
from the scene of the riot, and there has<br/>
not appeared a particle of evidence to<br/>
connect him with it in the slightest<br/>
degree. A warrant was issued against<br/>
him, but he surrendered himself before<br/>
it could be served. Kingston was<br/>
specially excepted from the operation<br/>
of martial law, so Governor Eyre had<br/>
him taken round to Morant Bay within<br/>
its jurisdiction, summarily tried by<br/>
court-martial, and hanged! Whatever<br/>
may be said for the other killings, it<br/>
is hard to see how this can be taken<br/>
out of the category of legal murder.<br/>
And after this campaign against un-<br/>
armed men, with no blood shed but<br/>
that of persons entirely innocent, with<br/>
one or two exceptions, of the original<br/>
rioting. Governor Eyre recommends<br/>
the officers, whose only merit was<br/>
their readiness to shed the blood of<br/>
unresistingmen and women, to thenotice<br/>
of the commander-in-chief, for pro-<br/>
motion! We doubt whether there was<br/>
ever before "honorable mention in the<br/>
dispatches" on such grounds as this.<br/>
But it will be responded to, and we<br/>
venture to predict that within three<br/>
months Governor Eyre will be gazet-<br/>
ted as Sir E. Eyre, K. C. B. We are<br/>
glad to see that these atrocities have<br/>
excited a very general indignation on<br/>
the part of the liberal portion of the<br/>
English people. The papers and per-<br/>
sons who felt with us during our war<br/>
are loud in their demands for justice.<br/>
But the *Times* and the organs of<br/>
the governing classes range themselves<br/>
on the side of the planters of Jamaica,<br/>
as they did on that of those of South<br/>
Carolina.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
N. Y. Independent
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}RICE—Common cargo Tic. 63 [?] coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}Good do " 70 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}Clean do " 61 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}White do " 88 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}PADDY—Namaan " 37 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}Nassaa " 62 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TEELSEED— " 104½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SUGAR No. 1. " 11 Picnl<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}2. " 10¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}3. " 10½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}Steam made No. 1. " 11½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}} 2. " 10½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BROWN " 1 " 7 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 6 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BLACK PEPPER— " 9¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BUFFALO HIDES " 10¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}HORNS " 12 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}COW HIDES " 13¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GUMBENJAMIN No. 1. " 220 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 123 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TIN " 1. " 40 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 30 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}HEMP " 1. " 22 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 20 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GAMBOGE " 50 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SILK—KORAT " 320 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}Cochin China " 800 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}Cambodia " 650 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}STICKLAC No. 1. " 14 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 13 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}CARDAMUMS—Best " 190 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}Bastard " 26 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SAPANWOOD—4 @ 5 " 3½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}6 @ 7 " 2½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}8 @ 9 " 2½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BEES WAX " 95 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}LUK KRABOW SEED " 2¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}IVORY—4 @ 5 " 350 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}6 @ 7 " 340 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}8 @ 9 " 320 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}DRIED FISH—Plaheng " 9½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}Plasalet " 7½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TEAKWOOD " 10 [?] Yuk<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}ROSEWOOD " 240 [?] 100 Pie.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}REDWOOD. No. 1. " 270 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent4 >}}2. " 100 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}MATBAGS " 8 P 100<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GOLD LEAF—-Tic. 16 [?] Ticals weight.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
SPAIN—Prim's insurrection appears<br/>
to be suppressed. The latest accounts<br/>
leave him in the Guadalupe mount<br/>
tains retreating into Portugal. Gen-<br/>
eral Concha has returned to Madrid<br/>
and the Moderate party hope he will,<br/>
be called on to form a new Cabinet.<br/>
Slight disturbances have occurred at<br/>
Sarragossa and Barcelona, the troops<br/>
firing on the people in the latter city.<br/>
It was reported at Madrid that Ad-<br/>
miral Pareja had committed suicide.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—-The Mexican<br/>
question is the topic of interest in the<br/>
New York papers, which give curren-<br/>
cy to numerous strange solutions.<br/>
Mr. Seward is on a voyage to the<br/>
West Indies for his health, and some<br/>
say he will proceed as far as Vera<br/>
Cruz. A Torpedo-ship is reported<br/>
to have been despatched from New<br/>
York for service against the Spanish<br/>
fleet on the Coast of Chili. The<br/>
Federal debt on the first of January<br/>
was $2,500,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Applying The Sermon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Nott, a missionary to one of the<br/>
Islands in the Pacific Ocean, preached<br/>
a sermon one day on the words “Let<br/>
him that stole, steal no more.” In the<br/>
sermon he said that it was a duty to<br/>
return things that had formerly been<br/>
stolen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next morning, when he opened<br/>
his door, he saw a number of natives<br/>
sitting on the ground around the house.<br/>
He was surprised to see them there<br/>
so early, and asked why they had<br/>
come. “We have not been able to<br/>
sleep all night,” they said. “We were<br/>
at chapel yesterday, and heard you say<br/>
from the Word of God that Jehovah<br/>
commanded us not to steal; whereas<br/>
we used to worship a god who, we<br/>
thought, would protect thieves. We<br/>
have stolen, and all these things we<br/>
have brought with us are stolen goods.<br/>
“Then one of the men held up a saw,<br/>
saying, “I stole this from the carpen-<br/>
ter of such and such a ship.” Others<br/>
held up knives and various tools.<br/>
“Why have you brought them to me?”<br/>
asked Mr. Nott. “Take them home,<br/>
and wait till the ships from which you<br/>
stole them come again, and then return<br/>
them with a present besides.” Still,<br/>
the people begged Mr. Nott to keep<br/>
the things until they could find the<br/>
owners. One man who had stolen<br/>
from a missionary, then being on an-<br/>
other island, took a voyage of seventy<br/>
miles to restore the goods.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DOMESTIC WINE.—-As to wine, we<br/>
can not but remember that domestic<br/>
wine introduced the cause of drunken-<br/>
ness into the world, and can therefore<br/>
hardly be trusted to expel the evil,<br/>
unless it has ceased to be what God<br/>
in his word declares it to be, a “mock-<br/>
er.” It is an instructive fact, that<br/>
families who go into the production,<br/>
and indulge in the consumption of<br/>
domestic wine, nine times in ten cease<br/>
thereafter all direct efforts to save<br/>
men from death and destruction by<br/>
whisky.—-Dr. Jewett
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FIVE GOVERNORS OF NEW YORK.—<br/>
Five Governors of the State of New<br/>
York, including three of the greatest<br/>
and best, had died drunkards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ONE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED<br/>
DAUGHTERS OF RICH MEN.—-There are<br/>
at present 1,300 daughters of rich men<br/>
asking admission to the Binghampton<br/>
asylum for inebriates. What a proof<br/>
of the sinful luxury of the age, and<br/>
the terrible danger of tampering with<br/>
strong drink!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_3_12 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="13" valign="bottom" class="rd5">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MARCH 22ND 1860.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="6" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="7" valign="bottom" class="rd6">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r01"><b>Ton</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r01"><b>Ton</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where For</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Enterprise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r02">Somfelt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r03">488</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r02">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Charlotte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r02">Ahrens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">[..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Hm.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Kung Mou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r02">Westcott</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">[..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Prot.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r02">Orion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">[..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Siam.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">St.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Finke Scur</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbe">
        <p class="r02">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">[..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Herm.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc1">
        <p class="r02">Manners</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">99</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Hm.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r02">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rd1">
        <p class="r02">Gilldon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r03">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r77">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rd4">
        <p class="r01"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessel's Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrived</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">A. M. Lawrance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r02">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r03">606</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Taylor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sandberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Brema</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Weyhausen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Catherina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Tansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">K[....]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Chanthaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Capt. Hodgson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Chanthaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Elleds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">178</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Rundberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Iona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">550</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">232</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Megendrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Lancelot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">888</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dougall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Lennox Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">613</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dobbie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Maury</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">378</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Harms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Pickenfack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r03">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Coble</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r02">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-22_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Diphtheria is a very troublesome<br/>
and dangerous disease. A very easy<br/>
remedy has been found for it that will<br/>
effect a speedy relief. Take a common<br/>
tobacco pipe, place a live coal in the<br/>
bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal,<br/>
draw the smoke into the mouth and<br/>
discharge it through the nostrils—<br/>
The West Indian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-To love and to labor is the sum of<br/>
all living; and yet how many think<br/>
they live who neither labor nor love.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The proof reader of the London<br/>
Times receives an editorial salary—<br/>
but has to forfeit one guinea for eve-<br/>
ry typographical error, even a turned<br/>
letter in each day's impression: if he<br/>
has marked an error on the proof, the<br/>
compositor who neglects to correct it<br/>
pays the forfeit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Two old New England ministers<br/>
were riding by a gallows, when the<br/>
elder one asked the other: “Where<br/>
would you be if that tree bore its<br/>
proper fruit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—"Riding alone, sir,” was the imme-<br/>
diate reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“Pat, buy a trunk to put your<br/>
clothes in,” said his Yankee compan-<br/>
ion. “What, and go naked this cold<br/>
weather?” asked the honest spalpeen<br/>
of Killarney.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“Billy,” said a benevolent vender<br/>
of food for stoves, as with cheerful vis-<br/>
age he sat down to his matutinal repast,<br/>
“is it cold?” “Werry cold, father,”<br/>
was the reply. “Is the gutters froze,<br/>
Billy,” rejoined the parent. “Werry<br/>
hard, father, they is,” was the response.<br/>
“Ah!” sighed the old gentlemen,<br/>
“put up the coal two pence a pan,<br/>
Billy. God help the poor!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A medical student who had been<br/>
screwed pretty hard at his examination<br/>
for admission to the faculty, on a very<br/>
warm day, was nearly overcome by the<br/>
questions put to him, when the follow-<br/>
ing query was added:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“What course would you adopt to<br/>
produce a copious perspiration!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After a long breath he observed,<br/>
wiping his forehead,—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I would have the patient examined<br/>
by the Medical Society!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Folly would do but little mischief if<br/>
it were confined to fools.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Most of the shadows that cross the<br/>
pathway in life are caused by standing<br/>
in our own light.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Why is a married man like a candle !<br/>
Because he sometimes goes out at night<br/>
when he ought not to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A worthy man who was hesitating<br/>
whether he should marry a woman pious<br/>
but cross-grained, or another who was<br/>
amiable but not specially religious, ask-<br/>
ed his pastor’s advice upon the subject.<br/>
He advised him to take the woman he<br/>
loved, remarking: “John, the grace of<br/>
God can live where you and I can’t.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A little fellow, not more than five<br/>
years of age, hearing some gentlemen<br/>
at his father’s table discussing the fa-<br/>
miliar line, “An honest man’s the<br/>
noblest work of God” said he knew it<br/>
wasn’t true, his mother was better than<br/>
any man that was ever made.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A lady’s dressing table is perhaps<br/>
called a toilet, because it is the scene most<br/>
of her toil is generally performed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C. CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
wil be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S & Co with their patronage areassure-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg<br/>
to inform that in consequence<br/>
of the decease of their friend,<br/>
PAUL SCHILL Esq. the firm<br/>
of MESSRS SCHILL, MALHERBE<br/>
& co. having entered into<br/>
liquidation and their con-<br/>
nexion with the said firm,<br/>
but for the liquidation of their<br/>
interest in the same, having<br/>
entirely ceased from the date<br/>
of 31st December 1865, the<br/>
same have formed at Bangkok<br/>
a new Import and General<br/>
Commission business under<br/>
the firm of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D HENRY & co.<br/>
into which MR. HUGO RANBER<br/>
also Partner in their Saigon<br/>
firm, has been admitted as a<br/>
Partner too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
Bordeaux, 1st January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED<br/>
would hereby inform the pub-<br/>
lic that they have a well as-<br/>
sorted stock, on hand, of all<br/>
kinds of liquids and other<br/>
merchandise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY
& CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, March 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
