---
linkTitle: 'May 31st, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 31st, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 31st'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 44
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, May 31st, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 21.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Extracts from a Himalayan
Journal.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LAKE OF OUNGA BAL.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the valley of Tillail across the<br/>
mountains to Cashmere, there is a short<br/>
and unfrequented route which will well<br/>
repay the pedestrian who loves to explore<br/>
the more sequestered beauties of nature,<br/>
unprofaned by the crowds of tourists and<br/>
sportsmen that annually flock to the hunt-<br/>
ing grounds of the Himalaya. Tillail is a<br/>
small narrow valley among the mountains<br/>
to the north of Cashmere, on the banks of<br/>
the Kishanganga, which flows between the<br/>
lawn like slopes of turf dotted with groves<br/>
of trees and patches of cultivation that<br/>
follow the winding course of the river for<br/>
about twenty miles. The mountains rise<br/>
so far and so steeply above it that, for four<br/>
or five months in the year, the primitive<br/>
inhabitants are completely cut off from all<br/>
intercourse with their neighbours. They<br/>
cultivate their tiny crops of barley and<br/>
buck wheat, and live on the produce of<br/>
their sheep and goats which they drive up<br/>
to the higher slopes of the mountain in the<br/>
summer, like the Swiss herdsmen. They<br/>
have little care and no use for money, ex-<br/>
cept to pay their yearly rent to the Maha-<br/>
rajah of Cashmere to whom the valley be-<br/>
longs. Each little village constitutes a<br/>
sort of family, of which their headman,<br/>
who is often also their priest, is the father.<br/>
They never heard of any other religion<br/>
than their own, scarcely of any other coun-<br/>
try beyond the neighbouring valleys. A<br/>
journey to Cashmere constitutes an event<br/>
in their lives to date by for years. It in-<br/>
duces a strangely solemn feeling to visit<br/>
such a people and to think of the vast<br/>
difference between them and one of our<br/>
European nations, and yet to feel that they<br/>
are a part of the great family of the human<br/>
race, which exhibits on a grand scale the<br/>
little differences in character, disposition<br/>
and physique of a single household. To<br/>
the Tillailees, lawsuits, politics, poligious<br/>
differences and doubts, divorce courts,<br/>
taxes, social good and social evil are<br/>
things unknown. From birth to death<br/>
they have no farther outlook into life than<br/>
that which is bounded by their own pine-<br/>
covered mountains and the silent snow-<br/>
peaks which stand there for ever around<br/>
and above them. Their ignorance prevents<br/>
much communication with them. Of their<br/>
thoughts, feelings, ideas, you can learn<br/>
nothing. They are strong, active, willing,<br/>
not without a rough sort of primitive<br/>
humour, and kindly towards one another.<br/>
Each of their little villages is built of large<br/>
rude wooden houses, strong and heavy to<br/>
resist the tremendous storms which sweep<br/>
down through the mountain passes. Dou-<br/>
ble-storied, the lower one receives their<br/>
ponies, sheep, goats, and hen-throughs,<br/>
when the snow and cold will not permit<br/>
them to exist out of doors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second day’s march towards Cash-<br/>
mere, after crossing the first high moun-<br/>
tain range which surrounds Tillail, lies<br/>
along an immense glacier which issues<br/>
from a mass of precipitous rocks, whose<br/>
spire like summits rise to a vast height and<br/>
so steeply that the snow will not rest upon<br/>
them. They tower above the surface of<br/>
white gleaming snow, dark and barren,<br/>
like the blasted ruins of some temple built<br/>
by the primæval giants. This indeed the<br/>
Tillail coolies believe to be a fact. As<br/>
you approach this impassable barrier the<br/>
path turns suddenly to the right and up<br/>
one of the steepest ascents I have seen in<br/>
the Himalaya. Having been unwell for<br/>
some days I was mounted on a Tillail pony<br/>
and had enough to do to keep myself from<br/>
slipping over his tail. These ponies are<br/>
well made, hardy, active and wonderfully<br/>
surefooted. I have seen them go up and<br/>
down places which would have presented<br/>
considerable difficulty to a man unaccus-<br/>
tomed to hill work. The Tillailaes are for-<br/>
ced to keep a certain number in readiness<br/>
in the event of the Maharajah going to war,<br/>
for which they recieve a small sum yearly.<br/>
This is not only done in Tillail but in all<br/>
the districts of his territory, so that "car-<br/>
riage" is always ready AT A MOMENT'S<br/>
NOTICE. From which providential arrange-<br/>
ment might not the Government of India<br/>
take a hint?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After crossing the pass, I descended into<br/>
a little strip of narrow valley quite unin-<br/>
habited. A small glacier stream runs<br/>
through it issuing from a grand cathedral-<br/>
like mass of snow-covered rocks which<br/>
bound the head of the valley. The moun-<br/>
tains on each side are bare, rugged and<br/>
very steep. Heaps of boulders and frag-<br/>
ments of rock encumber the valley MARK-<br/>
ING the progress and devastation of ancient<br/>
floods, landslip, avalanches and glaciers.<br/>
I passed a night here, and next morning<br/>
commenced a long ascent over the high<br/>
mountain range which forms the northern<br/>
boundary of Cashmere. After toiling a con-<br/>
siderable height I crossed a broad open<br/>
plateau. At the further end was an im-<br/>
mense wall-like ridge of rock, through<br/>
which there was a broad opening complete-<br/>
ly paved with enormous boulders which,<br/>
being of the same nature as the dark moun-<br/>
tain limestone above, must have fallen<br/>
whenever the passage was formed. And<br/>
as a proof that the opening WAS formed<br/>
in the solid rock I plainly observed several<br/>
projections on one side of the pass with<br/>
corresponding indentations on the other.<br/>
The time since it took place must have<br/>
been of vast duration, for all the boulders<br/>
were worn and rounded in that manner<br/>
which unmistakeably marks the long con-<br/>
tinued and violent action of running water.<br/>
The conformation of the surrounding coun-<br/>
try must have been very different then<br/>
since now the ground falls away from the<br/>
pass, on one side steeply, on the other<br/>
gradually. So here in this little spot<br/>
seemed to be written in a few short sen-<br/>
tences, as plain and authoritative a con-<br/>
firmation of the leading ideas of modern<br/>
Geology, as if they had been traced upon<br/>
the rock like the handwriting of old upon<br/>
the wall. After passing through this, the<br/>
path turned to the right up a steep and<br/>
rugged ascent whose summit was a very<br/>
narrow ridge, whence I looked down into<br/>
a vast amphitheatre half encircled by<br/>
mountain peaks, and on the other side<br/>
stretching away towards the edge of the<br/>
range on which you stand immediately<br/>
above the vale of Cashmere. Beneath my<br/>
feet clouds of mist and vapour were drift-<br/>
ing about in all directions, and as the<br/>
wind caught and lifted them I got a glimpse<br/>
of the lake of Gungabal, repoising at the<br/>
foot of the great peak of the Hararmuk,<br/>
whose white cone is seen from the valley<br/>
of Cashmere towering far above all its<br/>
fellows. It is supported by an enormous<br/>
mass of mountain and rock which itself<br/>
rises to a height of 4,000 feet above the<br/>
lake, terminating on that side in a dark<br/>
precipice of granate extending along the<br/>
whole length of the lake, and casting its<br/>
dark shadow half across its waters, whose<br/>
tiny wavelets continually break against<br/>
the vast adamantine wall which rises<br/>
darkly above it, like the murmurings of<br/>
weak human voices against the im-<br/>
mutable laws that govern the moral as<br/>
well as the material universe. Upon the<br/>
summit of the precipice is a huge glacier,<br/>
almost overhanging the rock, and looking<br/>
as if a touch would send it into the water<br/>
below. A torrent of snow-white water<br/>
plunges from it perpetually, 300 feet sheer<br/>
down into the lake—and, far above lake<br/>
and rock and glacier, the white peak of<br/>
the Hararmuk rears its mass of snow never<br/>
to be approached by human foot 3000 feet<br/>
into the blue depths of Heaven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sublime grandeur, lonely desolation,<br/>
stern magnificence of immutable repose,<br/>
all touched with fairest beauty! How<br/>
eloquently do such scenes speak to the hu-<br/>
man heart, and bid it lay aside its vain<br/>
complaining and its weak doubts, and to<br/>
raise itself above worldly pleasures into a<br/>
purer atmosphere of loftier aspiration,<br/>
of firmer faith, to realise more to ourselves<br/>
the existence and the care for us of that<br/>
Being from whom, we as well as these<br/>
rocks and mountains proceeded, to make<br/>
our lives and thoughts more worthy of<br/>
Him who has created scenes of such sub-<br/>
lime beauty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have called these mountain solitudes<br/>
"sacred temples of nature" and not with-<br/>
out reason, since they seem to have been<br/>
formed by the great Creator for no other<br/>
purpose than to impress the souls of His<br/>
human creatures with a knowledge of His<br/>
Glory, Power and Love, to develop that<br/>
feeling of admiration for the sublime and<br/>
beautiful, and that indistinct longing for a<br/>
higher life, which are the patents of our<br/>
celestial origin and destiny. With how<br/>
much deeper feelings of reverence and<br/>
even of awe shall we behold such scenes,<br/>
when we realise to ourselves that it was<br/>
the THOUGHT of the Creator that they<br/>
should touch our hearts and teach them of<br/>
Himself. To think that they have been<br/>
thus cared for, brings God nearer to us.<br/>
Nature thus becomes a link between him<br/>
and us, an everlasting sign and seal of<br/>
His love for us, a pledge that He has for-<br/>
gotten us not, that we are not abandoned<br/>
to the caprice of accident, or the tyranny<br/>
of fate. She speaks to us of a [......]-<br/>
[...] by God of our spiritual nature, of the<br/>
human heart which loves and admires,<br/>
which can wonder and can feel. For its<br/>
development, for its teaching and purify-<br/>
ing were these cathedrals of nature en-<br/>
dowed with such sublimity of form, such<br/>
wondrous delicacy of colour and beauty.<br/>
We are fond of tracing evidences of the<br/>
design of the Creator in fashioning the<br/>
material world with reference to our phy-<br/>
sical wants, but we seldom think how our<br/>
minds and our spiritual wants have been<br/>
also cared for. And it is very striking to<br/>
trace the similarity between the plan of<br/>
the Divine working with regard to the<br/>
grandeur of the mountains, and those won-<br/>
derful provisions for our physical wants<br/>
to which I have just alluded. Compare<br/>
for example what we know of the origin<br/>
and formation of the coal which has play-<br/>
ed so prominent a part in the history of<br/>
civilization. At a period of time in the<br/>
past, so long ago as to be literally not con-<br/>
ceivable by our minds, and when no life<br/>
but that of a few fishes existed upon our<br/>
planet, its surface was covered with a rank<br/>
and teeming vegetation, so thickly that, in<br/>
the words of Hugh Miller, "even to dis-<br/>
tant planets our earth must have shone<br/>
with a green and delicate ray." The con-<br/>
ditions of climate, of soil and of rain, were<br/>
of course totally different from those of<br/>
the present day, and were exquisitely<br/>
adapted to the development of the enor-<br/>
mous tree ferns, pine-like ARAUCARIANS<br/>
and gigantic reed shaped calamites which<br/>
formed the staple of the magnificent forests<br/>
of the carboniferous era.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a glorious yet purposeless display<br/>
of power would this have seemed to the<br/>
mind of an intelligent being, could such<br/>
have witnessed it. There were no men to<br/>
comprehend the beauty of these forests or<br/>
to receive any knowledge and love of God<br/>
from their magnificence—and although<br/>
before their decay a few inferior races of<br/>
animals came into existence those trees<br/>
could afford food to none. Ages passed<br/>
away and the forests disappeared from the<br/>
face of the earth; they sunk into it, or in<br/>
many places were covered with soil and<br/>
swept over them by floods and glaciers.<br/>
Other families of trees took their place,<br/>
and type after type of strange and varying<br/>
forms of fishes, reptiles, birds and quad-<br/>
rupeds occupied in slow and regular suc-<br/>
cession the earth, the air and the waters<br/>
of the globe. But all the time certain<br/>
chemical processes of nature were gradual-<br/>
ly converting the remains of the carboni-<br/>
ferous forests into another substance.<br/>
And still the question, for what purpose<br/>
would have forced itself upon the mind of<br/>
an intelligent being who could have seen<br/>
it. Now that it is an accomplished fact,<br/>
now that coal has increased the comforts,<br/>
advanced the the civilization, and develop-<br/>
ed the energies of the human race, we can<br/>
understand the meaning of this chapter of<br/>
revelation in the Book of Nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But what a striking lesson does it reveal<br/>
to us with regard to the mysteries of the<br/>
moral world. We now stand in the same<br/>
relation to them as the imaginary intelli-<br/>
gent being to the coal forests while they<br/>
were yet blooming upon the earth. And<br/>
as surely as they had a purpose and a<br/>
meaning, so surely have those other mys-<br/>
teries which now baffle our finite compre-<br/>
hension a purpose and a meaning which<br/>
will one day be also developed, and which<br/>
work even as these hidden forces of nature,<br/>
silently, slowly, but surely towards some<br/>
great end in the far off and unknown fu-<br/>
ture. And now if we compare this pro-<br/>
vision for man's physical wants with the<br/>
working of those laws which produced the<br/>
sublimity and beauty of the mountains we<br/>
shall find some very striking similitudes<br/>
which, in addition to other considerations,<br/>
compel us to believe that they were given<br/>
by the great Creator to develop the moral<br/>
and poetic part of human nature, in the<br/>
same way as we have seen provision was<br/>
made for our physical and intellectual<br/>
wants. The first resemblance is in the<br/>
vast periods of time during which the<br/>
beauty of the mountains existed apparent-<br/>
ly without purpose or meaning, since there<br/>
was no intelligence which could perceive<br/>
it. But now that this and all the aspects<br/>
of beauty which the earth presents to us<br/>
have had so wonderful an influence upon<br/>
our religion, our literature and conse-<br/>
quently upon our whole life and tone of<br/>
thought and feeling, their meaning and pur-<br/>
pose has become apparent, and herein lies<br/>
the great resemblance regarding this part<br/>
of the plan of creation, and that which<br/>
was noticed regarding the coal forest.<br/>
Another lies in the slow operation of un-<br/>
changing laws which have brought about<br/>
the grand result. The gradual upheaval<br/>
of sea bottoms, breakings forth of molten<br/>
lava from beneath the earth's crust, the<br/>
friction of ancient glaciers, the rush of<br/>
primeval torrents, the silent frosts, the soft<br/>
rains and dews and the burning suns of<br/>
countless summers—these have been the<br/>
implements in the hands of the Divine<br/>
Architect with which He has shaped the<br/>
mountain temple, and given sublimity to<br/>
the glacier and the snow peak, softness and<br/>
bloom to the sweet valleys winding beneath<br/>
them, and repose and the beauty of peace<br/>
to the dreaming mountain lakes that in<br/>
after ages they might teach and purify the<br/>
heart of man. Those who realize the vast<br/>
periods of time which have been required<br/>
for the development of purposes like those<br/>
in the material world, can surely never<br/>
feel surprise or disquietude that the brief<br/>
period of a few thousand years has not re-<br/>
vealed to us the meaning and the mystery<br/>
of that more wonderful creation of man.<br/>
Nor will they imagine that time can ever<br/>
reveal it. The creation of the immaterial,<br/>
of the spirit of man, that mystic essence<br/>
of his being which loves, hopes, fears, be-<br/>
lieves, aspires, is infinitely more mysteri-<br/>
ous and more sublime than all the inanim-<br/>
ate worlds and suns which circle at God's<br/>
bidding through space, and if these un-<br/>
fathomable depths of space (when we look<br/>
to the Heavens), these incalculable dura-<br/>
tions of time (when we look to the earth)<br/>
have been required for the completion of<br/>
the idea of material creation—-what less<br/>
than infinity and eternity shall complete<br/>
the destiny and solve the mystery of the<br/>
creation of the spirit of man?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COURT.-—The Queen and Royal Fam-<br/>
ily are at Osborne, but will shortly leave<br/>
for Balmoral, staying a few days at<br/>
Windsor en route.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARLIAMENT.-—The debate on the sec-<br/>
ond reading of the Franchise Bill is still<br/>
unfinished. Its tendency so far is unfa-<br/>
vourable to Government. Colonel Sykes<br/>
has asked questions regarding the rebels<br/>
in China.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.—-A war panic has prevailed<br/>
in Paris with regard to the position of<br/>
the two great German Powers. A de-<br/>
claration of the Emperor's sentiments is<br/>
anxiously looked for. His Majesty's visit<br/>
to the Camp at Chalons is to take place<br/>
in May, instead of in August, the usual<br/>
period. The payment for exemption<br/>
from military service is fixed at 200<br/>
francs less than last year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRUSSIA AND GERMANY.—-The Crown<br/>
Princess of Prussia gave birth to a<br/>
daughter on the 12th. More diplomatic<br/>
notes have been passing between the<br/>
German Powers. It is reported that<br/>
several of the Middle States will demand<br/>
that the Schleswig-Holstein question<br/>
shall be settled before the reform of the<br/>
Federal Constitution be taken into consi-<br/>
deration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AUSTRIA.—-The intelligence from Vien-<br/>
na is warlike. The Ministry are much<br/>
occupied with bank and currency ques-<br/>
tions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOLLAND.—-The First Chamber of the<br/>
States General has adjourned, and the<br/>
day for the reassembling of the Second<br/>
Chamber is not yet fixed. The Minis-<br/>
ter's defence of his Culture Bill is before<br/>
the public. The measure has undergone<br/>
some modifications in relation to sugar,<br/>
and the Minister denies that he desires to<br/>
abolish the cultivation of coffee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
KINGDOM OF ITALY.-—The Minister of<br/>
Finance and the Financial Committee<br/>
have agreed on mutual concessions. A<br/>
Vienna journal professes to give the stip-<br/>
ulations of a treaty, offensive and defen-<br/>
sive, just concluded between Italy and<br/>
Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES.—-The Pro-<br/>
visional Government recommend Prince<br/>
Charles of Hohenzollern as the new<br/>
Hospodar. Prince Couza's Ministers<br/>
have been impeached for wasteful expen-<br/>
diture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CANADA.—-An order issued for dishand-<br/>
ing the volunteers has been rescinded,<br/>
and bodies of them continue to be des-<br/>
patched to the frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—-A proclamation from<br/>
President Johnson declares the insurrec-<br/>
tion "to be ended, and henceforth to be<br/>
so regarded." General Hawley has been<br/>
elected Governor of Connecticut, and<br/>
Mr. G. Edmonds appointed Senator in<br/>
place of the late Mr. Foote. Mr. Seward<br/>
has entertained Madame Juarez. It is<br/>
said the regular army, being mainly com-<br/>
posed of Irishmen, is not to be depended<br/>
on to check Fenian action on the frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JAMAICA.—-The Royal Commission would<br/>
finish its labours in a few more days. The<br/>
evidence of about 1,000 witnesses has<br/>
been taken. Two of the men convicted<br/>
before the Special Commission have been<br/>
executed. The new Constitution is heart-<br/>
ily welcomed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOUTH PACIFIC STATES.—-The Chilian<br/>
Government has decreed a medal to those<br/>
engaged in the late naval action with the<br/>
Spaniards. A screw steamer bearing the<br/>
Chilian flag is reported off Corrientes.<br/>
The bay of Callao is bristling with can-<br/>
non.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BRAZIL.—-The allied army crossed the<br/>
Parana on the 14th March. The Princess<br/>
Leopoldine has given birth to a prince.<br/>
The bank of Brazil will not be wound<br/>
up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONTINENTAL COMMERCE WITH THE<br/>
FAR EAST.—-The Danish Government has<br/>
relinquished the idea of sending a steam<br/>
frigate and a corvette to the Far East;<br/>
and the Austrian expedition is also final-<br/>
ly deferred. The Hamburg underwriters<br/>
have been great sufferers lately, their last<br/>
loss being the destruction of the Fow-<br/>
TANET in the China Seas, learnt by over-<br/>
land telegram. Herr E. von der Heyde is<br/>
appointed Prussian Consul at Singapore,<br/>
Vice Schreiber.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE REFORM BILL.—-Several meetings<br/>
have been held, but public feeling is not<br/>
very strong. Mr. Bright's demand for a<br/>
great popular demonstration was not re-<br/>
sponded to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAVAL AND MILITARY.—-Further retire-<br/>
ments and promotions have been gazet-<br/>
ted. Rear-Admiral St. Vincent King is<br/>
now second on the list for promotion,<br/>
and, says the ARMY AND NAVY GAZETTE,<br/>
several officers have intimated their read-<br/>
iness to take command as his successor.<br/>
Lieutenant H. C. St. John, of the Opos-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sun, is promoted to the rank of Com-<br/>
mander, for his conduct in destroying the<br/>
piratical junks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
OBITUARY.—-The deaths include Lord<br/>
Clinton, Lady Ponsonby, Sir P. Fleet-<br/>
wood, and Dr. Hodgkin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MISCELLANEOUS.—-Mr. Peabody's reply<br/>
to the Queen's letter is published. Mr.<br/>
P. P. Ralli has made a munificent dona-<br/>
tion to King's College Hospital. A letter<br/>
from Dr. Beke announces the discovery<br/>
of coal-fields in Abyssinia. The cattle<br/>
plague is decreasing. Temple Bar is to<br/>
be removed. A city merchant has been<br/>
convicted of forgery. The GREAT EAST-<br/>
ERN is now taking in the new Atlantic<br/>
cable. A shocking murder has taken<br/>
place in Cannon-street. General Grant<br/>
is about to visit Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COMMERCIAL.—-The Bank rate is still<br/>
6 per cent, but money is more plentiful<br/>
Consols, 86 to 86½. The panic in Fin-<br/>
ance shares still continues. Bar silver<br/>
in demand at 5s. 1⅛d. to 5s. 1½d. per oz.,<br/>
and Mexican dollars at 5s. 0½d. per oz.<br/>
The report of the Commercial Bank<br/>
Corporation of India and the East is<br/>
very unfavourable, showing losses a-<br/>
mounting to £235,000. The Oriental<br/>
Bank will declare a dividend of 10 per<br/>
cent.-—L. & CHINA Ex. 17th April.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE AND EGYPT.—-The final arrnge-<br/>
ments between the French and the Pasha<br/>
of Egypt as to the Suez Canal are these:<br/>
-—The Company do not retain a single<br/>
acre of ground, except such as is needed<br/>
for the maritime channal. In con-<br/>
sideration of this cession, the Viceroy<br/>
adds 10,000,000f. to the already large<br/>
indemnity fixed some time back by<br/>
the Emperor Napoleon, and pays the<br/>
whole within four years from this, instead<br/>
of sixteen, as stipulated originally. Fur-<br/>
thermore, the Company sell the property<br/>
called Ouadi (which they purchased a<br/>
few years ago for 2,000,000f.) to the<br/>
Viceroy for the sum of 10,000,000f.; but<br/>
considering the great sums expended in<br/>
improvements by the Company, this a-<br/>
mount is not thought extravagant. Po-<br/>
litically the arrangement removes all pos-<br/>
sible questions of dispute, while for the<br/>
Company it has the great advantage of<br/>
enabling them to avoid an appeal for<br/>
capital, which most likely would have<br/>
created discontent among the sharehold-<br/>
ers. Although purchased dearly, the<br/>
Viceroy, it is said, will turn these new<br/>
acquisitions to account. A line will soon<br/>
run through them, of which the terminus<br/>
already existing in Zagazig will from the<br/>
commencing point, whence it will pass<br/>
Ismalieh and go direct to Suez traversing<br/>
the valley and ancient province of Goshen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE JAPAN HERALD relates a painful<br/>
incident which has taken place at Yoko-<br/>
hama. A Japanese, one of those put<br/>
forward by the native government as hav-<br/>
ing been concerned in the attack on a<br/>
French sailor which took place at the<br/>
beginning of last month, had been de-<br/>
capitated. It appears that the affray was<br/>
brought on entirely by the conduct of the<br/>
Frenchman who was drunk, and who is<br/>
represented to have provoked the Japan-<br/>
ese in an intolerable manner: but beyond<br/>
this it is said to be certain that the man<br/>
decapitated had in reality nothing what-<br/>
ever to do with the affair. He was a<br/>
common robber who had been in the gaol<br/>
at the time the affray took place. One<br/>
set of people affirm that the French min-<br/>
ister, M. LÉON ROCHES, insisted on hav-<br/>
ing the man beheaded, but he himself<br/>
denies this strenuously. The matter seems<br/>
to have excited a great deal of indigna-<br/>
tion and there has been a subscription<br/>
amongst the Europeans for the widow of<br/>
the Japanese who was beheaded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
IN THE NORTH the Rebellion continues<br/>
to assume a serious complexion. The<br/>
foreign drilled Pekin troops, about 2,000<br/>
in number together with some 6,000 or-<br/>
dinarily armed Chinese that were sent<br/>
from the Chi-li province, in all about<br/>
8,000 men, have been unable to make<br/>
head against a much smaller Rebel army<br/>
of only some 3,000 to 5,000. The latter,<br/>
on the contrary, have executed an ex-<br/>
tremely clever and creditable strategical<br/>
move. They contrived to lure the Im-<br/>
perial army northwards, by assembling<br/>
and retiring slowly. While however, one<br/>
half of their number kept the Imperial-<br/>
ists thus in play and led them on to some<br/>
eight or ten days march north of Fou[?]kden,<br/>
about 1,500 well mounted fellows made a<br/>
bend through a wild forest region, and<br/>
then re-entering the cultivated portion of<br/>
the province, they advanced on Moukden,<br/>
which had been left nearly bare of troops.<br/>
The foreign drilled Pekinese are now<br/>
nearly all back in Moukden again, to which<br/>
they have been forced by this move on<br/>
the part of the Rebels; and the new<br/>
Military Governor of the province (a<br/>
man said to have distinguished himself in<br/>
the suppression of the Tai-Ping Rebel-<br/>
lion in the South) is now shut up in the<br/>
City of Kae-Ping about two days' march<br/>
north of Moukden, and the Mandarins<br/>
are in apprehension of his being taken<br/>
there, notwithstanding that he has 300<br/>
of the Pekin foreign drilled troops, be-<br/>
sides others with him.—-RECORD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
May 31st 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The only thing of interest which<br/>
has transpired to break the monotony<br/>
of the week, is the arrival of the<br/>
Chow Phya, bringing European mails,<br/>
down to April 17th. The steamer was<br/>
rather ahead of time this trip, which<br/>
is rather encouraging if she is going<br/>
to continue, considering the interest-<br/>
ing feature of the news from Europe.<br/>
After the closing of the rebellion in<br/>
the United States, our western mails<br/>
for a time became flat, but they have<br/>
again assumed their usual interest<br/>
Things in Europe are looking no bet-<br/>
ter fast. Taking what we have al-<br/>
ready heard as a basis upon which to<br/>
found our conclusions, we may justly<br/>
conclude that actual hostilities are<br/>
now going on. Considering also that<br/>
we are separated from the Continent<br/>
by the distance of nearly half the<br/>
globe, it is not to be expected, that<br/>
they would wait for our opinion or<br/>
advice in those important matters, al-<br/>
though we may be abundantly capa-<br/>
ble of giving it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But a short time ago Prussia and<br/>
Austria were united in wrestling from<br/>
Denmark part of her territory, but<br/>
now they in turn, are fighting over the<br/>
spoils. It appears strange indeed that<br/>
the two leading German powers should<br/>
go to war about so little, for when we<br/>
look at the map, the whole of the land<br/>
in dispute, appears but little larger in<br/>
area, than the possessions of a thrifty<br/>
Illinois farmer, still a "little fire"<br/>
oftentimes "kindleth a great matter."<br/>
They now appear bent upon war, and<br/>
the friendly offices of the Emperor of<br/>
Russia, and Her Majesty the Queen of<br/>
England to mitigate the feud have<br/>
both been thrown aside. For aught<br/>
we know to day, the whole of Europe<br/>
may be in a blaze. So far as we can<br/>
see it would be madness, in the ex-<br/>
treme, for Austria to go to war no<br/>
matter what the principle, or interest<br/>
at stake may be, for in such a war<br/>
she risks every thing, even her very<br/>
existence as an independent empire.<br/>
War with Prussia, of course means<br/>
war all around. Hungary, although<br/>
she has lately made some friendly de-<br/>
monstrations, when the Emperor Fran-<br/>
cis Joseph passed through, is undoubt-<br/>
edly only waiting for an opportunity.<br/>
Venitia will undoubtedly rise, and the<br/>
Italian army was already moving to-<br/>
ward her assistance. It is indeed dif-<br/>
ficult to see how any part of Europe,<br/>
can avoid, eventually becoming engag-<br/>
ed in the quarrel. These things might<br/>
alarm us, were it not that the hand of<br/>
an Almighty mover is in it all. We<br/>
are in the midst of a prophetic year.<br/>
Great events are still expected by the<br/>
believers in prophecy, to transpire in<br/>
Europe, and most interpreters of pro-<br/>
phecy agree, that this is about the<br/>
time that those events are to transpire,<br/>
and who can say they have not alrea-<br/>
dy commenced. Europe to-day may<br/>
be the theatre of an Armageddon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Both the political and commercial<br/>
world appear to be a little shaky<br/>
throughout.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the United States President<br/>
Johnson has again shown his firmness<br/>
and good sense, by the exercise of the<br/>
veto power. Scarcely any previous<br/>
President has had occasion to exercise,<br/>
the veto power more than once during<br/>
an administration, but the pressure of<br/>
the radicals upon the President, and<br/>
his policy, has been such that it is dif-<br/>
ficult to see how he could have done<br/>
otherwise. The "Civil Rights Bill"<br/>
which the President vetoed, had for<br/>
its object the extension to the colour-<br/>
ed population, the full rights of citi-<br/>
zenship. The President declared the<br/>
bill unconstitutional, unnecessary, and<br/>
anomalous in its character. In this<br/>
matter Mr. Johnson has not only<br/>
shown firmness, but also great ability.<br/>
His message to the Senate in defence<br/>
of his course, contains arguments which<br/>
are apparently unanswerable. The<br/>
Senate may pass the bill over the veto,<br/>
but it will be lost in the House. The<br/>
majority of the people too, will un-<br/>
doubtedly sustain the President.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As "St. Patricks' day in the morn-<br/>
ing," and evening too, passed off con-<br/>
trary to expectations, without any<br/>
very warlike demonstrations on the<br/>
part of the Fenians, it was supposed<br/>
and hoped that further apprehensions<br/>
on that score were unnecessary, but<br/>
later advices, state that they again ap-<br/>
pear to be moving, and both the Ca-<br/>
nadian and United States authorities<br/>
have sent troops to the border to watch<br/>
their movements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle item of news which<br/>
especially interests Siam is the total<br/>
loss of the new steamer, bearing the<br/>
name of the kingdom. This is a mat-<br/>
ter too, wholly of dollars, and cents.<br/>
We publish in another coluinn the<br/>
statement of some of the officers on<br/>
board at the time. Part of the state-<br/>
ments however, we have thought pro-<br/>
per to suppress, until further authen-<br/>
ticated, as they are exceedingly damag-<br/>
ing to the Captain. If they are at all<br/>
true, his conduct was simply outra-<br/>
geous. We did not make the acquaint-<br/>
ance of Captain B. when he was in<br/>
this port, but confess we were not<br/>
much prepossessed with his appear-<br/>
ance, but then, persons are oftentimes<br/>
deceived by appearances. It may arise<br/>
from a kind of epauletta phobia on<br/>
our part, but we are free to confess<br/>
that when we see a man in the simple<br/>
civil service, swelling around in the<br/>
dress of a high naval, or military offi-<br/>
cer we are always forced to the con-<br/>
clusion, that there is something sadly<br/>
deficient in the upper story, for which<br/>
deficiency, it requires a vast amount of<br/>
externals to make up If the state-<br/>
ment we have received is at all true,<br/>
the loss of a steamer in such a place,<br/>
must have arisen either from extreme<br/>
carelessness, or incompetency. The<br/>
vessel and cargo are supposed to be<br/>
worth over $ 200,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The only local item of importance<br/>
is the absence of the Editor of the<br/>
Bangkok Recorder, who has gone to<br/>
Petchabure in order to enjoy a short<br/>
relaxation and rest from his many and<br/>
various labours. On account there-<br/>
fore of the Editor's absence we have con-<br/>
cluded not to have an editoral this week,<br/>
which omission our readers we trust<br/>
will pardon.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Loss of the S. S. Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 11th at 11 A. M. got under<br/>
way from Rangoon and proceeded on<br/>
our voyage to Calcutta. Engines and<br/>
boilers in good working order. Every<br/>
thing went well until Wednesday the<br/>
12th at 7. 45 P. M. at this time the<br/>
Capt being on the bridge in charge of<br/>
the vessel, she struck the Alguada<br/>
Reef about 1 1/2 miles from the light-<br/>
house. The vessel struck heavily two<br/>
or three times before the Capt. gave<br/>
the order to stop the engines. And<br/>
when he did give the order, the vessel<br/>
was hard and fast upon the rocks.<br/>
When the order was given to stop<br/>
the vessel, the 2nd engineer let off the<br/>
steam and came on deck, the chief en-<br/>
gineer, and firemen following him as<br/>
quick as they could. As we came up<br/>
on deck the Capt. left the bridge, and<br/>
came aft. He ordered the boats to<br/>
be cleared away and lowered. The<br/>
three engineers, seven firemen, en-<br/>
gineers cook and four passengers went<br/>
into one boat, and pulled round the<br/>
stern of the steamer, when the Capt.<br/>
ordered us to steer straight for the<br/>
light-house. When we were about a<br/>
quarter of a mile from the lighthouse<br/>
we could see nothing, but rocks and<br/>
surf, although the red light was<br/>
burning half way up the light-house.<br/>
We were afraid to go any nearer, and<br/>
not seeing any entrance to get in by<br/>
to the light-house, we turned back and<br/>
tried to find an entrance at several<br/>
places, but not being successful we<br/>
went back to the ship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we reached the ship, the Capt.<br/>
told us that the Chinamen had taken<br/>
away the other boat without leave.<br/>
We remained alongside of the ship<br/>
till 4½ A. M. on the 13th, when we<br/>
made another attempt to reach the<br/>
light-house by going on the lee side of<br/>
the reef, we got abreast of the light-<br/>
house, when the keeper came out as far<br/>
as he could on the rocks, and showed<br/>
us where to land. We got all safe on<br/>
shore and pulled the boat on the rocks,<br/>
when we went to the light-house and<br/>
found the Chinamen had landed with<br/>
the other boat. The light-house keep-<br/>
er told us that a sea had washed<br/>
the other boat on shore, when the<br/>
Chinamen jumped out and run for the<br/>
light-house, another sea came and with<br/>
resurge the boat was carried out to<br/>
sea again. The Chinamen had told him<br/>
that there was plenty of money in the<br/>
boat, and he had went in search of her,<br/>
and having found her he had brought<br/>
her in between the rocks, and landed<br/>
all the money he found on board, a<br/>
considerable portion of it was lost as the<br/>
bags were open and the boat stove in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A short time having passed the<br/>
Engineers proposed repairing the boat<br/>
and returning to the ship and make the<br/>
attempt to save the remainder of those<br/>
who were on board. The light-house<br/>
keeper told us it would be no use to<br/>
make the attempt before low water, as<br/>
the boat would surely be swamped and<br/>
our lives endangered for no purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notwithstanding this, the boat was<br/>
soon repaired as well as circumstances<br/>
would enable us to do, but in launch-<br/>
ing her, she got half full of water.<br/>
The 2nd and 3rd engineers and five of<br/>
the crew got into the boat, but three<br/>
hands were required to keep her free<br/>
of water.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we got alongside Mr. Soper<br/>
told us that the Capt. and the cook<br/>
had left the ship on a small raft and<br/>
were drifting out to sea. In the mean<br/>
time seeing the men all making a rush<br/>
for the boat, and were nearly sinking<br/>
her, we told them to get out again as<br/>
we were going after the Capt. This they<br/>
flatly refused to do, saying "that the<br/>
Capt. did not care for them so long as<br/>
he was all right himself, and now as<br/>
they had got into the boat they intend-<br/>
ed to look out for themselves." We<br/>
then pushed off and made for the<br/>
shore, three or four men bailing all<br/>
the time, we landed in safety and then<br/>
started in search of the Capt. and cook,<br/>
whom we found three or four miles<br/>
out at sea drifting with the tide.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After taking them into the boat, we<br/>
went back to the ship. When we got<br/>
alongside the Capt. went on board and<br/>
going aft took nearly all his clothes,<br/>
cocked-hat, and sword and put them<br/>
all into the boat, we also to off some<br/>
more of the men. The boat came<br/>
nearly being capsizing, but eventually<br/>
we got safe to the shore and landed<br/>
him, and his clothes in safety. We<br/>
then went back to the ship and took<br/>
the remainder of the men on board<br/>
and brought them safe to land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Capt. wishing to return again<br/>
to the ship, took the lighthouse keep-<br/>
er, the chief engineer and the boats<br/>
crew, and once more put off for the<br/>
ship. When we got on board we took<br/>
three mail boxes, charts, some money,<br/>
the binnacle, and five muskets and re-<br/>
turned to the shore. In landing the<br/>
boat was upset and we lost two mail<br/>
boxes, and the one that we landed was<br/>
not property looked after, and conse-<br/>
quently was destroyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday the 15th the barque<br/>
Viscount Canning of London was<br/>
passing, when the keeper of the light-<br/>
house signalized to her, that there was<br/>
45 men in distress at the lighthouse.<br/>
The barque was hove to and the boats<br/>
sent on shore and we were taken on<br/>
board, and conveyed safely to Rangoon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
An ill fated Steamer.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was with much regret we heard the<br/>
other day of the complete wreck of the<br/>
Steamer SIAM on the Alguada Reef. The<br/>
vessel is said to have gone ashore on the<br/>
rocks during the night of Wednesday of<br/>
last week. Our readers will remember<br/>
that the SIAM only left Rangoon, bound<br/>
to Calcutta on Tuesday the 10th instant.<br/>
How this unfortunate accident occurred<br/>
is a curious question. The Alguada<br/>
Reef Light is now a very prominent ob-<br/>
ject in that quarter. During the South<br/>
west monsoon with a strong flood tide<br/>
setting on to a lee shore, it is easy to<br/>
suppose that a sailing vessel might be<br/>
driven where she did not want to go.<br/>
Her anchor may either drag or the chain<br/>
give way, in which case she is wholly<br/>
helpless. But it must certainly be differ-<br/>
ent with a steamer, and especially where<br/>
the weather is anything like favorable.<br/>
No account of this disaster has reached<br/>
us. But we suppose that under the pro-<br/>
visions of the Merchant Shipping Act,<br/>
the loss of the SIAM will be made the<br/>
subject of an official investigation. We<br/>
learn that the Commander and Crew of<br/>
the unfortunate steamer were brought to<br/>
this port by the sailing ship "VISCOUNT<br/>
CANNING."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to be able to state<br/>
that there has been a great improve-<br/>
ment in the health of Phya Montree<br/>
Soöriwang, and he is now to all ap-<br/>
pearance in a fair way to recover.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Persia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Persia is even still three times as large<br/>
as France, but so ignorant are its sover-<br/>
eigns of its population that their subjects<br/>
are reckoned at from five to ten millions<br/>
in number. For miles upon miles noth-<br/>
ing is seen but a salt desert of which the<br/>
wild ass and the bounding gazelle are the<br/>
only occupants. Here and there are scat-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tered fertile oases rescued from barrenness<br/>
by irrigation, but the general aspect is<br/>
uninviting to the stranger. Yet no one,<br/>
not even the Swiss, so loves his land, so<br/>
praises its beauty and when absent pines<br/>
for its desert, as the Persian. He has no<br/>
patriotism, he loves Iran only as the do-<br/>
mestic cat the home in which it has been<br/>
reared. From the Elburz mountains to<br/>
the Caspian, and in Azeabaeejan, the soil,<br/>
however, is well-watered and fertile.<br/>
The destruction of trees has diminished<br/>
the rainfall, and with great labour such<br/>
occupied plains as that of Tehran are ir-<br/>
rigated by KHANATS, or under-ground<br/>
communications between the lower and<br/>
higher lands. Strong barriers at the foot<br/>
of the Elburz range like those which<br/>
the Italians have constructed at the<br/>
base of the Alps would catch the pre-<br/>
cious snow as it melts in April, and econo-<br/>
mise for the whole country the water<br/>
which for a brief period wastes portions<br/>
of it by inundations. The people may be<br/>
divided into the two classes of tentsmen<br/>
and townsmen. The former, under chiefs<br/>
through whom the Shah rules the tribes,<br/>
move from hill to plain in search of past-<br/>
ure in their black tents. They are called<br/>
Eelyats, their hereditary chief is termed<br/>
Eelkhami, and they supply men to the<br/>
army. The townsmen move, like the Ita-<br/>
lians of the Campagna and the cities, on-<br/>
ly for two months in every year to seek<br/>
coolness in the uplands. The FALEH, or<br/>
labourer, is fit for any work whether that<br/>
of the fields or the artisan. In Tehran<br/>
he is paid from 5½d. to 11d. a day and in<br/>
the country rather more, according as<br/>
his services, are in request in summer and<br/>
autumn or at discount in winter and spring.<br/>
He saves in the former seasons against<br/>
the rigours of the latter. His wife, per-<br/>
haps in some distant village, helps him<br/>
as a maid-servant to a neighbouring gen-<br/>
tleman if she have no children, or if she<br/>
has she busily supplies the clothes that<br/>
are wanted. Food is cheap, bread being<br/>
4d. for 6¾ lbs. and mutton from 2d. to<br/>
3d. a pound. The poorest enjoy sherbet<br/>
and ice. Indeed few of the labouring<br/>
class in any other country are as well off<br/>
as the Persians FALEH. Nor are they so<br/>
oppressed as is generally believed. They<br/>
supply the conscription and pay taxes,<br/>
but their landlord, or the Shah himself<br/>
who receives petitions direct from the<br/>
lowest, prevents exaction. The peasan-<br/>
try suffer only as they do in India when<br/>
the Shah or a governor makes a progress<br/>
through a district. The Shah pays liber-<br/>
ally for everything like the English Vi-<br/>
ceroy or Governor, but so little of the<br/>
money goes to the proper quarter that<br/>
the people frequently send a present re-<br/>
questing the Shah not to honour their<br/>
province with his presence when he in-<br/>
tends to pay a visit. The people seldom<br/>
work on Friday, and they enjoy numer-<br/>
ous festivals. Every village has a bath<br/>
and ice-house. Slavery is confined to do-<br/>
mestic service. Dervishes, professional<br/>
beggars and idle retainers of the nobles<br/>
abound, but the nuisance is chiefly con-<br/>
fined to the cities, and in 1863 it became<br/>
so intolerable in Tehran that beggars<br/>
were prohibited from plying their trade.<br/>
Although the climate of Northern Per-<br/>
sia is very severe the children are so<br/>
dressed as to leave the stomach unpro-<br/>
tected. Hence the small population, but<br/>
the picked lives who survive are very ro-<br/>
bust, and the infusion of Georgian and<br/>
Circassian blood by domestic slavery has<br/>
made them beautiful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Like most Asiatics Persians are accom-<br/>
plished liars. Unlike their ancestors,<br/>
they may be good riders and shots, but<br/>
they lack the third virtue of speaking the<br/>
truth, their object being rather that ac-<br/>
complishment of the Spartans—-never to<br/>
allow themselves to be found out in a lie.<br/>
Mr. Watson, doubtless from a sad expe-<br/>
rience, tells us—-"Nothing is more diffi-<br/>
cult than to convict a Persian of telling<br/>
an untruth, and nothing at the same time<br/>
is less common than to hear the plain facts<br/>
of a case from the lips of an inhabitant<br/>
of that country." The good qualities of<br/>
the people are that they are in general<br/>
patient and easily governed. The poor<br/>
are frugal and respectful. Still this is<br/>
but little to set against such a description<br/>
as this, so true of all countries where Is-<br/>
lam has spread its curse:—-"If there be<br/>
any beauty or truth, or honesty, in dealings<br/>
between man and man, in uprightness<br/>
and independence of character, in wed-<br/>
ded love, in family life and family affec-<br/>
tion, in readiness to sacrifice fortune or<br/>
life, if necessary, for the public good, in<br/>
tolerance towards others in points rela-<br/>
ting to religion, in fair play towards<br/>
others, in gratitude for past kindness, in<br/>
modesty, in a consistent endeavour to<br/>
provide for the well-being of posterity—-<br/>
such beauty it would be vain to expect<br/>
to meet with in Persia." The source of<br/>
this, apart from the Koran, is found in<br/>
the want of education. Few can read<br/>
their own tongue fluently. The children<br/>
grow up both ignorant and superstitious,<br/>
believing for the most part in Mahomed<br/>
and Ali and Hussein. The Moollahs are<br/>
the village teachers and they are paid,<br/>
like the Indian Gooroos, by presents,<br/>
when a boy has been taught after a fa-<br/>
shion to read and write the Koran. Imme-<br/>
diately such a one puts MEHRIA before<br/>
his name, as the Government of India ig-<br/>
norantly allowed the Nawab of Bengal's<br/>
sons to do last year. After seven years<br/>
of age girls are removed from the Mool-<br/>
la's care to that of a learned woman who<br/>
teaches them to read, write and sew and<br/>
occasionally a little Persian music. But<br/>
the range of their ideas is by no means<br/>
wide, and a man more instructed than a<br/>
Persian generally is would not, probably,<br/>
find their society very engaging. The<br/>
Shah supports a Government College in<br/>
the capital taught partly by Europeans—-<br/>
a Frenchman, for instance, teaches Eng-<br/>
lish. His Majesty has caused several<br/>
youths to be taught medicine and other<br/>
branches of knowledge in Paris, but with<br/>
true Mussulman pride their countrymen<br/>
distrust them on their return.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Persians are Sheeahs, maintaining<br/>
the inalienable right of Ali to the imme-<br/>
diate succession to the throne and mantle<br/>
of Mahomed. So highly do they vene-<br/>
rate their priests that, however untruth-<br/>
ful, they dare not take a false oath if it<br/>
be administered by a Mujtahid, or high<br/>
priest. Indeed these functionaries are<br/>
very loath to administer oaths, for fear<br/>
of entangling a true believer in falsehood.<br/>
The great event of the year in Persia is<br/>
the dramatic representation of the wrongs<br/>
and woes of the Martyred Hussein, the<br/>
son of Ali.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Shah is an absolute despot subject<br/>
only to the check of the Koran and the<br/>
courts which administer the Sherra or<br/>
written, and the Urf or customary law.<br/>
The nobles are his Peishkhidmutts or<br/>
lords in waiting, placing his food on the<br/>
table, holding his pipe, and bringing his<br/>
slippers, all of which they consider more<br/>
honourable than to be made ambassador<br/>
to a European court. When appointed<br/>
governors of provinces they rule by de-<br/>
puty. If they offend the King the bas-<br/>
tinado is the result if bribery is not more<br/>
powerful. The Shah's sons are married<br/>
at fourteen and become Governors. The<br/>
King keeps up the healthiness and beauty<br/>
of the royal stock by frequently marry-<br/>
ing peasants. Except for six years be-<br/>
tween the fall of Sedr Azem, after the<br/>
Persian War and the selection of Sepah<br/>
Salar in March 1865, the Shah has always<br/>
ruled through a Grand Vizier and minis-<br/>
ters of departments. As the object of<br/>
each minister, governor and secretary is<br/>
to amass money not only for present wants<br/>
but to propitiate his superiors in the day<br/>
of trouble, we need not marvel that great<br/>
confusion prevails in almost every branch<br/>
of the administration. All pay for their<br/>
appointments. The theory is that the<br/>
army is a hundred thousand strong. The<br/>
only well organized arm is the 5000 Ar-<br/>
tillery which enables Persia to punish the<br/>
Turkomans. Individually the Persian<br/>
soldier is brave, but he lacks the moral<br/>
elements of courage and does not trust<br/>
his leaders. Kept in arrears for years, as<br/>
to pay, the men are allowed to work as<br/>
labourers. Sometimes a regiment will<br/>
even forego pay for a year's leave. They<br/>
get no rations, have no surgeon, and are<br/>
made to serve till old age. The officers<br/>
are appointed by interest and none be-<br/>
low a Major is a gentleman. The army<br/>
is drilled by Europeans who have no<br/>
command. There is no commissariat.<br/>
The baggage is carried on asses. The<br/>
men have percussion musket.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Watson tells us that Persia is eve-<br/>
ry year being drained of bullion, the im-<br/>
ports so much exceed in value the ex-<br/>
ports. The legal rate of interest is 12<br/>
per cent. but the customary rate is from<br/>
24 to 60. The consumption of wine is<br/>
very large and they are valued solely for<br/>
their intoxicating qualities. There is no<br/>
hope for Persia Mr. Watson thinks—-<br/>
and he writes with strong sympathy for<br/>
the people and with a high respect for<br/>
the Kajar family—except in a race of<br/>
foreign conquerors “as in the case of<br/>
Hindustan.” The inhabitants are dead to<br/>
progress ; and their faith keeps them as<br/>
they are. The influence of European<br/>
Ambassadors has led to the disuse of<br/>
some barbarous customs, and foreign<br/>
traders may in time create a desire for<br/>
foreign luxuries. But the impulse to<br/>
progress must come from without. Per-<br/>
sia hates Russia which has stripped it of<br/>
so many provinces and stolen Ashoorabah<br/>
an important island in the south of the<br/>
Caspian. It has not been well used by<br/>
England which has not fully acted up to<br/>
past treaties. And it sees in France only<br/>
a clever intriguing people of whom it<br/>
may make use but whom it will never<br/>
imitate. Persia, like the rest of the Mos-<br/>
lem world, dreamily and corruptly awaits<br/>
the time when the expulsion of the<br/>
Turks from Europe will begin, in the<br/>
East, a revolution from which will issue<br/>
a new and better Asia.—-THE FRIEND<br/>
OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson has proclaimed<br/>
"the insurrection in Georgia, North<br/>
and South Carolina, Virginia, Tennes-<br/>
see, Alabama, Louisiana, Arkansas,<br/>
Mississippi, and Florida to be ended,"<br/>
and henceforth to be so regarded."<br/>
General Hawley, of the Republican<br/>
party, has been elected Governor of<br/>
Connecticut by a majority of 500 votes.<br/>
The Governor of Vermont has appoint-<br/>
ed Mr. George Edmonds to be a Se-<br/>
nator, vice Mr. Foote, deceased. Mr.<br/>
Seward has entertained Madame Juarez,<br/>
the wife of the Mexican President, at<br/>
dinner. The public debt of the United<br/>
States amounted on the 1st April to<br/>
$2,837,000. The balance of the Trea-<br/>
sury at the same date was $122,000,<br/>
000. Gold on the morning of the 4th,<br/>
138. Exchange on London, 137. Cot-<br/>
ton, dull; middling upland, 39 to 40c.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Great fire at Mandalay.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Mandalay, 6th April 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is said that a steamer will leave to<br/>
morrow morning at daylight. I am going<br/>
to send you a few lines. I could write vol-<br/>
umes. A fire of unprecedented magnitude<br/>
and virulence has destroyed the best, and<br/>
certainly the richest portion of Mandalay,<br/>
out the city walls. The fire commenced<br/>
on Sunday evening at about 5 P.M. some-<br/>
where near the Chinese quarter, and before<br/>
7 P.M. it had spread west, as far as the<br/>
Shosy Tschoang, and north for a mile and<br/>
a half making a clean sweep of every thing<br/>
that could possibly be consumed. A strong<br/>
breeze blew from the south, increased with<br/>
the fire, and then swept the flames in ed-<br/>
dying fierceness in all directions. Your<br/>
house went early in the day. All Kullalads<br/>
followed rapidly, including the Puckah<br/>
buildings of Moollah and other Mogul<br/>
merchants, spreading with fearful rapidity<br/>
and fanned by the most insinuating of<br/>
southerly breezes. The flames soon reach-<br/>
ed the Armenian quarter, and in a few<br/>
minutes only, all the good houses on that<br/>
line, including the building of Camaratta<br/>
and his family were no more. In the mean<br/>
time, the fire bore down steadily in my<br/>
direction and from three different direc-<br/>
tions. I had foreseen danger from the first<br/>
and prepared for the worst, by having all<br/>
my men on the roof with a plentiful sup-<br/>
ply of water. For some time it was hope-<br/>
ful that Mr. D'Avera's house would escape,<br/>
but the heat from the surrounding blazing<br/>
buildings, was too great to admit of any<br/>
one's remaining on the roof to afford help.<br/>
Almost as quickly as it takes to write this,<br/>
his house and compound on all sides was<br/>
a mass of bright flames, the wind blowing<br/>
almost dead upon what appeared then the<br/>
devoted agency!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By this time most of the Europeans who<br/>
had been burnt out round about me were<br/>
present with me, and rendered valuable<br/>
aid. Water was handed up freely, and all<br/>
parts of the building deluged. Our diffi-<br/>
culty was to maintain our post, owing to<br/>
the heat and smoke; but the fates were<br/>
propitious and the house was saved by<br/>
sheer exertion. Hundreds and thousands<br/>
of burnt out individuals, had been stream-<br/>
ing down westward and filled the plain<br/>
west of me. There was no exit to the<br/>
east.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Amongst the SOLICITORS FOR SHELTER<br/>
were Mrs. D'Avera, family, and followers.<br/>
shortly afterwards, and before I was out<br/>
of danger myself Mr. D'A. presented him-<br/>
self on the roof of my house and held out<br/>
his hand which under the circumstances<br/>
it was impossible to refuse. By this time<br/>
I had with me, Major Halsted, Messrs<br/>
Calogreedy, Levia, Mr. Colter, Mr. D'<br/>
Avera, and a host of others. Mr. Berry<br/>
had found shelter with Madame d'Orgoni,<br/>
who had a narrow escape. The fire was<br/>
short, rapid, but most complete. Nothing<br/>
stopped the devouring element. Large<br/>
trees seemed only to communicate the<br/>
flames, and blazed away as they were<br/>
LIKED by the CIRCUMAMNIENT flames, as<br/>
if they were so much dry fuel—even the<br/>
old crying man's place so apparently well<br/>
guarded by magnificent tamarind trees<br/>
was completely burnt up. There are only<br/>
bare cracked WALLS left. Fancy I can<br/>
look out now from over a kind of black<br/>
maildan eastward and have a clear view of<br/>
the west face city wall. So fierce did the<br/>
fire rage, and so effectually do its duty<br/>
that even the charred remains of posts<br/>
usually seen after a fire, hardly exist in<br/>
the present instance! The posts them-<br/>
selves having been consumed with the<br/>
house. There is wide spread ruin and de-<br/>
solation. Burmans generally view these<br/>
calamities very philosophically but this<br/>
time I think they actually feel the visita-<br/>
tion to be more than an ordinary one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
MAULMAIN ADVERTIZER
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE MYE-LOON-GHEE CASE.—-It will<br/>
be of high interest to many persons here,<br/>
to learn that this great moot-point has<br/>
wound itself into parliamentary influ-<br/>
ence in England ; and that it was to have<br/>
them brought under discussion in the<br/>
House of Commons at an early date—-is<br/>
we are told by a paragraph in the last<br/>
OVERLAND MAIL, which we here annex—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Myloongyee Case,—-Colonel SYKES<br/>
on April 12, to move an address for copy<br/>
of correspondence of Mr. KNOX, the Con-<br/>
sul at Bangkok, with the foreign office,<br/>
and replies in reference to the claims made<br/>
by Mr. BURN, a British subject, and known<br/>
as the Myloongyee case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It may be expected that the sifting thus<br/>
proposed for it, will more readily bring<br/>
the matter to a terminable issue, than all<br/>
the legal assertions and arguments that<br/>
could be employed about it, in all the<br/>
Courts in Burmah ; for according to well-<br/>
received opinion here, we believe the lever<br/>
of influence with the Court of Siam is THE<br/>
one to effect a proper adjustment. If<br/>
therefore the matter comes to be made a<br/>
Government question in England, it will<br/>
necessarily follow, as a consequential step,<br/>
that it will soon be made a diplomatic one<br/>
with the Siamese Court—-where, it is not<br/>
inaptly supposed, the vexed question must,<br/>
at last, be decided—-at least so PRO FORMA,<br/>
by a declaration of the validity or other-<br/>
wise of the original assignment.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ISLE OF BONES.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The greater part of the coast of New<br/>
Siberia and the Isle of the Lackon, on<br/>
the north of Asia, is only an agglomera-<br/>
tion of sand, ice and elephants' teeth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fishermen collect enormous quantities<br/>
of fossil ivory which is imported into<br/>
China and Europe, where it is employed<br/>
for the same purposes as ordinary ivory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The isle of bones has served as a quarry<br/>
of this valuable material for export to<br/>
China for five hundred years; and it has<br/>
been exported to Europe for upwards of<br/>
a hundred. But the supply from these<br/>
strange mines remains undiminished.<br/>
What a number of accumulated genera-<br/>
tions does not this profusion of bones<br/>
and tusks imply.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHANGES IN INDIAN SOCIETY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Dr. Livingstone, after his second<br/>
and recent visit to Bombay, has thus<br/>
written of the marvellous changes in In-<br/>
dian Society. “Our Government is, upon<br/>
the whole, directed for the good of the<br/>
people. We have wise and equitable<br/>
legislation, and the laws are enforced<br/>
with fairness. Many of the magis-<br/>
trates are natives, and any of them may<br/>
rise as high as any European in the ma-<br/>
jority of offices under Government. No<br/>
other nation would have governed India<br/>
so well as we have done, or with as much<br/>
tender consideration for the feelings and<br/>
prejudices of the natives. We have rath-<br/>
er over-done our duty in this respect, and<br/>
as it appears to me the statement of a<br/>
native in London, that his countrymen<br/>
were buffeted if they did not make<br/>
obeisance to every European, must be<br/>
erroneous. Very few natives take any<br/>
notice of Europeans in passing, unless<br/>
they happen to be acquaintances. Here<br/>
nearly all the gay carriages and dashing<br/>
pairs are owned and occupied by native la-<br/>
dies and gentlemen, and certainly no more<br/>
is expected or received from them than<br/>
would be at Rotten-row among ourselves.<br/>
It is the same in those parts up country<br/>
where I have been, and I believe no other<br/>
nation would do so very much for a con-<br/>
quered people and exact so little. In<br/>
the parts of Africa conquered by the<br/>
Portuguese no native dare come near a<br/>
white with his hat on.'
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Economy in France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Americans have not the first no-<br/>
tions of economy. They make mon-<br/>
ey with little trouble, and spend it<br/>
without counting. In this it would be<br/>
well if they took a few lessons, and in<br/>
Europe they would have examples ad<br/>
infinitum if they mingled with the<br/>
people; but they learn no more of<br/>
the daily habits and interior life of<br/>
those among whom they travel than<br/>
if they staid at home. They learn<br/>
to practice their follies and not their<br/>
wisdom. Not how they shall make<br/>
money, but how they shall contrive to<br/>
live on what they have, is the question<br/>
with Europeans; how, by hook and<br/>
by crook they shall make the ends of<br/>
the year meet, and they have no<br/>
false shame about exhibiting all these<br/>
hooks and crooks. If one takes a<br/>
house full of his acquaintances ask<br/>
how much he paid for it, how much<br/>
income he has, how much it cost him<br/>
for dress, food, and all the various<br/>
necessaries of life; and then they<br/>
calculate to see if he can save any-<br/>
thing. An American feels insulted<br/>
by one such question. If a lady buys<br/>
a dress, her friends demand how<br/>
much it cost. They take the material<br/>
in their hands, rub it between their<br/>
fingers, pronounce upon its strength<br/>
and fineness, and whether it is a good<br/>
bargain. A French lady is happy to<br/>
give the most minute information up-<br/>
on all the details of her menage, and<br/>
would not be offended if asked how<br/>
much the dinner cost to which she had<br/>
invited you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We know families in American<br/>
cities who do not think it possible to<br/>
have a good dinner for less than two<br/>
dollars each person; but we know<br/>
families in Paris who keep two or<br/>
three carriages, two coachmen, two<br/>
valets, two cooks, and three chamber-<br/>
maids, who allow only sixty cents each<br/>
person per day for food, and live very<br/>
well. The chief cook is told how<br/>
much he may spend for the table, and<br/>
no professed cook takes a place where<br/>
he can't make a good profit with the<br/>
sum allowed him. There are thou-<br/>
sands of families in Paris who live on<br/>
salaries of four, six, and eight hund-<br/>
red dollars a year, who never spend<br/>
more than ten dollars a month on the<br/>
table.—This will seem incredible, but<br/>
we have lived in such families and<br/>
shared their meals, which were suf-<br/>
ficient and good. Not a single item<br/>
is provided until the cost has been<br/>
counted. But the most important<br/>
article with English and Americans is<br/>
never reckoned by the French people.<br/>
This is time. They turn and putter<br/>
all day in half a bushel, while an Am-<br/>
erican would prefer some hard labor<br/>
that would yield him more money,<br/>
and save him the necessity of such<br/>
economy; and fortunately he lives in<br/>
a country where this decision is at his<br/>
choice. But here labor is not free, and<br/>
therefore money is not plenty, and,<br/>
what is worse, labor is not honorable.<br/>
—Paris Cor. Chicago Republican.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Home Conversations.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Children hunger perpetually for new<br/>
ideas, and the most pleasant way of<br/>
reception is by the voice and the ear,<br/>
not the eye and the printed page. The<br/>
one mode is natural, the other is<br/>
artificial. Who would not rather listen<br/>
than read? An audience will listen<br/>
closely from the beginning to the end<br/>
of an address, which not one in twenty<br/>
of those present would read with the<br/>
same attention. This is emphatically<br/>
true of children. They will learn<br/>
with pleasure from the lips of parents<br/>
what they deem drudgery to study in<br/>
the books; and even if they have the<br/>
misfortune to be deprived of the<br/>
educational advantages which they<br/>
desire, they cannot fail to grow up<br/>
intelligent if they enjoy in childhood<br/>
and youth the privilege of listening<br/>
daily to the conversation of intelligent<br/>
people. Let parents, then, talk much<br/>
and talk well at home. A father who<br/>
is habitually silent in his own house<br/>
may be, in many respects, a wise man;<br/>
but he is not wise in his silence. We<br/>
sometimes see parents who are the life<br/>
of every company which they enter,<br/>
dull, silent, uninteresting at home<br/>
among their children. If they have<br/>
not mental activity and mental stores<br/>
sufficient for both, "let them first provide<br/>
for their own household."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"The Wooden End
of the Board."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Banks, in a recent speech<br/>
delivered in Washington in favor of<br/>
free suffrage, told this anecdote:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When I was younger than I am,<br/>
living in the State of New Hamp-<br/>
shire, at the town of Nashua, where I<br/>
obtained my education at a University<br/>
with a belfry on the top and a water<br/>
wheel under the lower stories, looking<br/>
out with my associates and fellow<br/>
students upon the smooth and glassy<br/>
surface of the Merrimac river, the<br/>
stream of perpetual beauty and per-<br/>
petual life, we saw a colored boy, in-<br/>
timately known to us, upon the surface<br/>
engaged in the pleasant exercise of<br/>
skating, for it was winter. While we<br/>
looked upon the beautiful Merrimac,<br/>
the little negro boy suddenly went in.<br/>
You may never have seen a negro un-<br/>
der such circumstances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We went down to him with all the<br/>
speed possible. Going out to the<br/>
middle of the river, we took up a<br/>
plank and handed it to the little negro,<br/>
and he grasped it with as much alacri-<br/>
ty as any one of them will take a ballot<br/>
when we give it to him. Just as he<br/>
had got it on the hole into which he<br/>
had fallen, he fell off the plank and<br/>
went in again. The second time he<br/>
came up, he wore an expression I shall<br/>
never forget. You have never seen a<br/>
negro under such circumstances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was speechless, his emotions<br/>
suppressed all rhetoric; he did not<br/>
indulge in any eloquence at all. He<br/>
grasped the plank this time, not with<br/>
alacrity but with ferocity, and we<br/>
brought him again to the surface. We<br/>
thought he was a negro saved from<br/>
the jaws of death; but off the little<br/>
fellow slipped and went down. You<br/>
may never have seen a negro under<br/>
such circumstances. We handed him<br/>
the plank again, but he did not touch<br/>
it this time. You may never have<br/>
seen a negro refuse a plank under such<br/>
circumstances. He addressed us a<br/>
speech, and I never heard a speech<br/>
that contained so much of touching<br/>
eloquence as was embodied in that<br/>
little negro's speech. "Please gib dis<br/>
nigger the wooden end of that board."<br/>
You see the end we had given to him<br/>
was the icy end. It was the same icy<br/>
end that the Southern people have<br/>
been holding out to him for two hun-<br/>
dred years. He was entirely satisfied<br/>
that the wooden end was the best.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, sir, what we propose for the<br/>
negro in this country is, to give him<br/>
the wooden end of the board. He has<br/>
had the icy end for more than two<br/>
centuries. The desolation of more<br/>
than mortal retribution has come up-<br/>
on the men who extended to him the<br/>
icy end of the board, and come upon<br/>
them justly. I wish now to give him<br/>
the wooden end of the board. He<br/>
will receive from that act of justice the<br/>
same joy which that little negro ex-<br/>
perienced.—Lo. Ca. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Spider Story.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fired with emulation, I carefully watc-<br/>
hed a common garden spider (EPEERA<br/>
DIADEMA,) which I found as wonderful.<br/>
I commenced by destroying the web of a<br/>
fat spider, and the owner appeared ex-<br/>
cessively astonished as her web collapsed<br/>
around her. At length she took refuge<br/>
in an inverted flower-pot, where I found<br/>
her two hours after. I am inclined to<br/>
think that during this period she was<br/>
preparing materials for a new web, I<br/>
found in every case where a web was de-<br/>
stroyed that the spider went away to some<br/>
quiet spot, and drawing his legs around<br/>
him, remained quiet for two or three<br/>
hours. During this period of repose the<br/>
spider is stupid and dull—just gives an<br/>
impatient shuffle when touched, but does<br/>
not run off as spiders generally do when<br/>
disturbed. I watched again, then left,<br/>
and when I returned in half an hour I<br/>
found the spider as active as a spider could<br/>
be in building a new web—-the old one,<br/>
which at my last visit was still hanging,<br/>
had vanished. Had the spider eaten it?<br/>
“thats the rub.” By a lucky chance an-<br/>
other spider came a-up the piece of wood,<br/>
from the end of which my spider had<br/>
fastened one of her foundation lines.<br/>
“They met,” and in an instant the claws<br/>
of each were shot out with a dexterity<br/>
that a pugilist might envy; the blows were<br/>
given in exactly the same manner as a cat<br/>
strikes her antagonist. The trespassing<br/>
spider was soon convinced that it would<br/>
be the hight of folly to stop where he<br/>
was; so fastening a line from where he<br/>
stood. he let himself down on to a con-<br/>
volvulus leaf. My friend rushed to the<br/>
spot where spider No. 2 had fastened his<br/>
line; and seizing on it the other end of<br/>
which, be it remembered, was in com-<br/>
munication with spider No. 2’s body be-<br/>
gan to wind him off, that is to say, she<br/>
drew the line in toward herself, in the<br/>
same manner that a sailor hauls in a rope,<br/>
but with a rapidity that was truly wonder-<br/>
ful; the front legs moved so rapidly<br/>
that my eyes could scarcely follow them.<br/>
Spider No. 2 having a decided objection<br/>
to his vitals being wound away in this<br/>
sort of manner, put an end to my friend’s<br/>
little pastime by cutting the line. Spider<br/>
No. 1 had now collected web that amount-<br/>
ed to the size of a large pea; when she<br/>
found the supply cut off she began stow-<br/>
ing it away in her own body, forcing<br/>
it in with her two front claws, and in a<br/>
few moments not a vestige was left.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
—SCIENCE GOSSIP.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sowing Wild Oats.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all the wide range of accepted max-<br/>
ims, there is none, take it for all in all,<br/>
more thoroughly abominable than the one<br/>
as to the sowing of wild oats. Look at it<br/>
on what side you will, and I will defy you<br/>
to make anything but a devil's maxim of<br/>
it. What a man-—be he young, old, or<br/>
middle-aged—-sows, that, and nothing<br/>
else, shall be reapt. The one only thing<br/>
to do with wild oats is to put them care-<br/>
fully into the hottest part of the fire, and<br/>
get them burnt to dust, every seed of<br/>
them. If you sow them, no matter in<br/>
what ground, up they will come, with<br/>
long, tough roots like the couch grass,<br/>
and luxuriant stalks and leaves as sure<br/>
as there is a sun in heaven—a crop which<br/>
it turns one's heart cold to think of.<br/>
The devil, too, whose special crop<br/>
they are, will see that they thrive, and<br/>
you, and nobody else, will have to reap<br/>
them; and no common reaping will get<br/>
them out of the soil, which must be dug<br/>
down deep, again and again. Well for<br/>
you if with all your care, you can make<br/>
the ground sweet again by your dying day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
—-DR. ARNOLD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Methodist Estimate
of Spurgeon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Gilbert Haven, in his notes of<br/>
European travel, says, of Spurgeon:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I confess to a previous prejudice against<br/>
him; but he disarmed me. I heard him<br/>
through. And though I dislike to admit<br/>
any one into the circle where my three<br/>
great preachers dwell—Olin, Durbin and<br/>
Beecher—-yet I have to acknowledge that<br/>
he has a seat beside, if not above them.<br/>
He is a very remarkable man, the great-<br/>
est preacher, I think, that I have heard.<br/>
He glories in the simplicity of his preach-<br/>
ing and seems to think that he is nothing<br/>
remarkable; but only an earnest, straight-<br/>
forward evangelist.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Careless Business Men.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not possible for a man to be care-<br/>
less in business affairs, or unmindful of<br/>
his business obligations, without being<br/>
weak or rotten in his personal character.<br/>
Show me a man who never pays his notes<br/>
when they are due, and who shuns the<br/>
payment of his bills when it is possible,<br/>
and does both these things as a habit, and<br/>
I shall see a man whose moral character<br/>
is beyond all question bad. We have<br/>
had illustrious examples of this lack of<br/>
business exactness. We have had great<br/>
men who were in the habit of borrowing<br/>
money without repaying it, or apologizing<br/>
for not repaying it. We have had great<br/>
men whose business habits were simply<br/>
scandalous—-who never paid a bill unless<br/>
when urged and worried, and who expend-<br/>
ed for their personal gratification every<br/>
cent of money they could lay their hands<br/>
upon. These delinquencies have been<br/>
apologized for as among the eccentricities<br/>
of genius, or as the unmindfulness of<br/>
small affairs which naturally attends all<br/>
greatness of intellect and intellectual ef-<br/>
fort; but the world has been too easy<br/>
with them altogether. I could name great<br/>
men—-and the names of some of them arise<br/>
before the readers of this letter—-who<br/>
were atrociously dishonest. I do not care<br/>
how great these men were. I do not care<br/>
how many amiable and admirable traits<br/>
they possess. They were dishonest, and<br/>
untrustworthy in their business relations,<br/>
and that simple fact condemns them. I<br/>
am ready to believe anything bad of a<br/>
man who habitually neglects to fulfil his<br/>
business obligations. Such a man is cer-<br/>
tainly rotten at heart. He is not to be<br/>
trusted with a public responsibility, or a<br/>
rum bottle, or a woman.—-DR. HOLLAND.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—-</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">56</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do Garden</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">77</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No.1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">78</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">77</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">59</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BROWN</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW {{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER {{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW {{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER {{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">135</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">39</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">600</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">215</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">32⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>3 @ 4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 @ 6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRADOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>7 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>18@20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">255</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaslit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">5⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">205</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 Pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">175</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">155</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">150</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td colspan="4">Tic. 16 P Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—On Singapore 1 @ 1⅓ 10 d.s.<br/>
Hongkong 2 P cent discount 30 d. s. Lon-<br/>
don 4s 9⅓ d. P 86 m. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_3_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A bone of contention should be<br/>
thrown away when there is no longer<br/>
any meat on it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-To bring up a child in the way<br/>
he should go.-—Travel that way your-<br/>
self.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The man who would like to go<br/>
to heaven alone, will never get there<br/>
either alone or in company.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"What are you doing!" said a<br/>
father to his son, who was tinkering<br/>
at an old watch. "Improving my<br/>
time," was the rejoinder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wood-sawyer's soliloquy—"Of all<br/>
the saws I ever saw to saw with, I<br/>
never saw a saw to saw as this saw<br/>
saws."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A poor Irishman who applied for a<br/>
license to sell ardent spirits, being<br/>
questioned as to his moral fitness for<br/>
the trust, replied, "Ah! sure it is not<br/>
much of a character that a man needs<br/>
to sell rum!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-We should give as we receive,<br/>
—cheerfully, and without hesitation,<br/>
for there is no grace in a benefit that<br/>
sticks to the fingers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Different sounds travel with dif-<br/>
ferent degrees of velocity. A call to<br/>
dinner will run over a ten acre lot in<br/>
minute and a half, while a summons to<br/>
to work will take from five to ten<br/>
minutes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-There is no greater obstacle to<br/>
success in life than trusting for some-<br/>
thing to turn up, instead of going to<br/>
work and turning up something.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-An Irish peasant being asked<br/>
why he permitted his pig to take up<br/>
his quarters with the family answered<br/>
—"Why not? Don't the place afford<br/>
every convenience that a pig can re-<br/>
quire!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Many a man, for love of pelf,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To stuff his coffers, starves himself;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Labors, accumulates and spares;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To lay up ruin for his heirs;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Grudges the poor their scanty dole;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Saves everything—except his soul.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
—-A lady in an omnibus at Washing-<br/>
ton, espied the great unfinished dome<br/>
of the Capitol, (which don't look<br/>
much like a dome at present) and said<br/>
innocently, "I suppose those are the<br/>
works!" "Yes madam, for the na-<br/>
tion," was the answer of a fellow pas-<br/>
senger.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-If we are loved by those around<br/>
us we can bear the hostility of all the<br/>
rest of the world; just as if we are be-<br/>
fore a warm fire, we need not care for<br/>
all the ice in the Polar regions.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Financial Revolution.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A WRITER in the December number of<br/>
BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE demonstrates,<br/>
with great clearness and force, the injur-<br/>
ies which have been inflicted on British<br/>
commerce by the laws which restrict the<br/>
issue of paper currency, and make the<br/>
amount of it dependent, not upon the<br/>
exigencies of the public, but the amount of<br/>
specie held by the Bank of England.<br/>
The constantly recurring crisis in com-<br/>
mercial affairs which have been so ruin-<br/>
ous to England are with singular clear-<br/>
ness proved to be owing to this cause.<br/>
At the very time when specie grows scarce<br/>
by its withdrawals, for exportation, and<br/>
the necessities of the public for an in-<br/>
creased emission of currency become a<br/>
alarming, then instead of meeting the de-<br/>
mand by an issue of more paper, the bank<br/>
begins to contract its issues ; as a matter<br/>
of course, trade becomes cramped, mer-<br/>
cantile operations restricted, prices fall,<br/>
distrust spreads, failures occur, and dis-<br/>
tress pervades the whole country. We <br/>
know all about these things in this country,<br/>
having been constantly subject to them<br/>
under our old state-bank system, the last<br/>
and most disastrous of them having fallen<br/>
upon us in 1857. Seeing how easily these<br/>
financial crisis occurred during times of<br/>
profound peace and abundant harvests,<br/>
when we ought to have been in the most<br/>
prosperous condition, financially speak-<br/>
ing, it was perfectly natural that all our<br/>
financial writers and bank managers<br/>
should have predicted utter ruin to our<br/>
commerce in the event of a war with the<br/>
South ; and that visions of ships rotting<br/>
at our wharves, and grass growing, in<br/>
Broadway and Wall street, should fright-<br/>
en the wits out of prudent, conservative<br/>
capitalists. What right had they to ex-<br/>
pect anything else, in the event of a civil<br/>
war, when disasters nearly as great oc-<br/>
curred in times of peace? But the long-<br/>
dreaded event at last came, and the pro-<br/>
phets of evil held their breath, anticipa-<br/>
ting the predicted ruin. The ruin, how-<br/>
ever, did not come—-at least not the kind<br/>
of ruin that was looked for. Broadway,<br/>
instead of being overgrown with grass,<br/>
was overcrowded with customers. Wall<br/>
street sprung into new life. Sagacious<br/>
conservatives shook their venerable heads,<br/>
and said : "It's all very well now ; but<br/>
wait and see." Well, we have waited, and<br/>
what have we seen? Why, a severe fin-<br/>
ancial crisis in England in 1864, but none<br/>
here as yet. Peace, however, was to bring,<br/>
not healing on its wings, but the great<br/>
smash up which was to involve all in one<br/>
wide-spread financial ruin. But we have<br/>
now had nine months of peace, which<br/>
have been to us nine months of uninter-<br/>
rupted commercial prosperity. Of all<br/>
the commercial nations of the world with<br/>
which we have had intercourse during<br/>
the past five years, not one of them has<br/>
been so free from financial derangements<br/>
as our own country ; and yet, while they<br/>
have been at peace and in the enjoyment<br/>
of a specie currency, we have been at<br/>
war, have increased our national debt<br/>
3,000,000,000 of dollars, have given free-<br/>
dom to four millions of slaves, have had our<br/>
most valuable ports blockaded, have re-<br/>
duced our cotton crop from 4,000,000 of<br/>
bales to 1,500,000, have lost more than a<br/>
hundred thousand tonnage of shipping<br/>
by rebel pirates, and have suspended<br/>
specie payments during all the time, too.<br/>
We wonder if any of the people who are<br/>
so desirous for a return to the old order<br/>
of things, who would impose upon us<br/>
again the old state-bank system, ever<br/>
give themselves the trouble of thinking<br/>
to what we owe our marvelous successes<br/>
during the past four years, as well as our<br/>
continued prosperity during the last nine<br/>
months?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If they do, they cannot fail to see that<br/>
they were directly owing to the abundant<br/>
issues of legal-tender, which were re-<br/>
garded as a dire necessity at first, but<br/>
have proved to be our great salvation.<br/>
These legal-tenders gave us something to<br/>
work with ; they furnished the people with<br/>
a perfect currency, and at the same time<br/>
gave the Government a permanent loan<br/>
of four hundred millions of dollars, free<br/>
of interest. And now it is proposed to<br/>
roll back the great financial revolution<br/>
which we blundered into, to return to<br/>
the restrictive scheme of a paper curren-<br/>
cy, based upon specie, which proves so<br/>
inconvenient and disastrous to England,<br/>
and which once was so inconvenient and<br/>
disastrous to ourselves ; but we believe it<br/>
to be wholly impossible to do this, and in<br/>
the impossibility of it our safety lies. It <br/>
was an easy matter to put four millions of<br/>
greenback currency into circulation ; but<br/>
to suppress it will be about as practicable,<br/>
and about as sensible, as it would be to put<br/>
a full-grown turkey back into the shell<br/>
from which it had been hatched. We<br/>
might kill the fowl in attempting to com-<br/>
press him into his original condition, and<br/>
that is about all we shall be able to do<br/>
with our financial prosperity if we attempt<br/>
to go back to the ante-rebellion system<br/>
of currency.—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How Justice is to be Enforced.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following terse answer to a let-<br/>
ter of inquiry recently sent to Gen.<br/>
Fisk from an agent of the bureau,<br/>
will show your readers how justice is<br/>
to be enforced in this State:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE,<br/>
NASHVILLE, TENN., DEC. 13, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR: I have the honor to acknowl-<br/>
edge the receipt of your favor of the<br/>
13th, and to reply as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—-What shall be my course to en-<br/>
force a judgment for debt?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-You will, after giving reason-<br/>
able time, seize and sell the debtor's<br/>
property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—When a white man is fined for<br/>
beating a freedman, and he refuses to<br/>
pay the fine, how shall I enforce the<br/>
payment?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—Hold him in arrest until he<br/>
pays it; and if he still refuses, put him<br/>
in jail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—-When I order a white man to<br/>
appear to answer a claim for debt due<br/>
a freedman, and he refuses to ap-<br/>
pear, what have I to do?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—You will arrest and fine him<br/>
for contempt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—-What about carrying fire arms?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-Treat every one alike. You<br/>
cannot disarm the negroes when white<br/>
men of every class are allowed to car-<br/>
ry arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—-What about whipping as a pun-<br/>
ishment for crime.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-No! Let the lash be laid a-<br/>
side forever. All civilized nations<br/>
have discarded it. Its use would dis-<br/>
grace the American name. Should any<br/>
one attempt to use it on any one of<br/>
his laborers, you will punish him so-<br/>
verely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—-What shall I do with roving<br/>
and vagrant negroes?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-Treat them just as the law<br/>
treats white vagrants. Let freedmen<br/>
know that you are the friend and pro-<br/>
tector of the industrious but the en-<br/>
emy and punisher of the dishonest and<br/>
vagrant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You may ask : How am I to ob-<br/>
tain officers to enforce my orders? Se-<br/>
lect civil officers in the county, if you<br/>
can find such as will enforce your pro-<br/>
cesses; if not, appoint officers from a-<br/>
mong civilians. If you cannot find<br/>
such, apply for military aid. You are<br/>
in the service of the United States,<br/>
and its whole power is pledged to sus-<br/>
tain you in the discharge of your du-<br/>
ty. I am, sir, very respectfully, your<br/>
obedient servant,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CLINTON B. FISK,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brevet Maj. Gen. and Asst. Com.<br/>
for Kentucky and Tennessee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This has the right ring in it. Let<br/>
the spirit of this letter be carried out<br/>
by the agents of the Bureau, in every<br/>
State and country in the rebellious<br/>
States, and it will not be long until<br/>
public sentiment will be purified, and<br/>
equitable laws will be passed, securing<br/>
to all, the rights of person and pro-<br/>
perty—-N. Y. Independent.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A WHALE boat, built with<br/>
brass knees. 28 feet long,<br/>
and 6 feet wide, with oars, mast<br/>
and sail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply on board the Siam Bar-<br/>
que "Rapid." (3. w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE United States Consulate,<br/>
has been removed from the<br/>
Siamese Public Buildings to Kawk<br/>
Kwai, near the residence of Paul<br/>
Pickenpack Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. HOOD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE fast sailing Chinese rig-<br/>
ged boat "Helena" of about<br/>
30 tons register, or 500 piculs<br/>
capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel has just undergone<br/>
a though repair, and is newly<br/>
sheathed with yellow metal, is<br/>
well found in anchors and chains,<br/>
has a good boat, sails in good order,<br/>
is fitted with patent blocks, and<br/>
can be used without any further<br/>
expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Apply to, A. F. SANDBAG & Co.
Bangkok 18th May 1866 (S. w.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
