---
linkTitle: 'October 25th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - October 25th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); October 25th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 65
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, October 25th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 42.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An “unsurpassed” Hymn.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the NEW-ENGLANDER for August,<br/>
1860, Dr. Bacon pronounces the following<br/>
exquisite hymn “unsurpassed in the Eng-<br/>
lish or any other language” and adds that<br/>
“perhaps it is as near perfection as any<br/>
uninspired language can be.” It is usual-<br/>
ly ascribed to Hillhouse, the poet, i. e.,<br/>
James A. Hillhouse, but, according to Dr.<br/>
Bacon, it was written by his younger bro-<br/>
ther, Augustus L. Hillhouse, who died<br/>
near Paris in March, 1859.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Trembling before thine awful throne,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}O Lord! in dust my sins I own,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Justice and mercy for my life<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Contend! Oh! smile and heal the strife.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The Saviour smiles! upon my soul<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}New tides of hope tumultuous roll—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}His voice proclaims my pardon found,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Seraphic transport wings the sound.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Earth has a joy unknown in heaven—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The new born peace of sin forgiven!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Tears of such pure and deep delight,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ye angels! never dimmed your sight.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ye saw of old, on chaos rise<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The beauteous pillars of the skies;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ye know where morn exulting springs,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And evening folds her drooping wings.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bright heralds of Eternal Will,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Abroad his errands yet fulfill:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Or throned in floods of beamy day,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Symphonious in his presence play.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Loud is the song—-the heavenly plain<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Is shaken with the choral strain—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And dying echoes, floating far,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Draw music from each chiming star.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But I amid your choirs shall shine,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And all your knowledge shall be mine;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ye on your harps must learn to bear<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A secret chord that mine will bear.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pastor Harms.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This great and good man, who has re-<br/>
cently died in Germany, has shown to the<br/>
world what great things can be accom-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
plished for Christ by faith and prayer and<br/>
untiring labor. He lived and died in Her-<br/>
mannsburg, a village on the great Lune-<br/>
burger Heath, becoming the pastor of the<br/>
parish after the death of his father in<br/>
1848. The care of this parish, which is<br/>
about ten miles square, and contains seven<br/>
villages, would seem to be sufficient to<br/>
engross a pastor's thoughts and energies.<br/>
A dead orthodoxy prevailed; but, under<br/>
his earnest and faithful labors, a new<br/>
Christian life soon began to pervade the<br/>
people, which, under his direction for over<br/>
sixteen years, has made the parish of Her-<br/>
mannsburg the most remarkable mission-<br/>
ary community in the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though his people knew nothing of for-<br/>
eign missions, he soon formed the plan of<br/>
establishing a missionary institute for<br/>
training candidates for the work by a<br/>
course of four years; where, besides study-<br/>
ing to be ministers, they could learn some<br/>
trade, and thus be able to introduce the<br/>
arts of christian life as well as christian<br/>
ordinances into heathen countries. He,<br/>
however, had no funds to start the enter-<br/>
prise, and his people were poor. He then<br/>
cast himself upon God, and like Müller of<br/>
Bristol, found that He whose is the silver<br/>
and the gold, could supply all his wants.<br/>
Funds flowed in upon him from all parts<br/>
of the world, enabling him to build a large<br/>
building, and afterwards another, capable<br/>
of accommodating forty-eight students.<br/>
Over a hundred candidates now desire ad-<br/>
mission to the institute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1858, when eight students had finish-<br/>
ed their course of study and were desirous<br/>
of establishing a mission on the east coast<br/>
of Africa, the question arose how were<br/>
they to be sent? Pastor Harms decided<br/>
that they must build a ship; and though<br/>
most of his people had never seen a ship<br/>
on the ocean, and lived at a distance from<br/>
any port of the German sea, he prayed to<br/>
God for this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ship called the Candace was built,<br/>
and sailed from Hamburg October 18th,<br/>
1858, and has been sailing on missionary<br/>
voyages ever since, having transported<br/>
more than fifty missionaries and more than<br/>
a hundred colonists. They have nine mis-<br/>
sion stations in Africa, over 40,000 acres<br/>
of land appropriated to the missionary<br/>
service, and more than a hundred converts.<br/>
Preachers have also gone from his insti-<br/>
tute to Australia, the East Indies, and to<br/>
the Germans in our western States. In<br/>
1854 he started a monthly paper to diffuse<br/>
missionary news among his people, which<br/>
has now a circulation of 14,000, the larg-<br/>
est of any religious periodical in Germany.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With all the immense additional toil<br/>
which the oversight of these great enter-<br/>
prises required, his custom being to spend<br/>
twelve hours a day over his books or cor-<br/>
respondence, while he seldom retired to<br/>
rest before two or three o'clock at night,<br/>
Pastor Harms did not neglect his paro-<br/>
chial duties. He preached three times on<br/>
the Sabbath, often two hours at a time,<br/>
and held a daily evening exercise of pray-<br/>
er for an hour at the parsonage. His peo-<br/>
ple were trained to systematic giving, eve-<br/>
ry member of his church bringing to him<br/>
each week, for missions, as God had pros-<br/>
pered him. There are no beggars, no<br/>
drunkards, no ragged straggling children,<br/>
and no paupers in his parish. In every<br/>
house there is family prayer morning and<br/>
evening: no one is absent from church<br/>
services on the Sabbath or in the week,<br/>
except from sickness. His people are very<br/>
industrious and live in great harmony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And all this, humanly speaking, is the<br/>
work of one man, afflicted with a painful<br/>
disease, but animated by an all-conquer-<br/>
ing faith, trusting not in man, but in the<br/>
promises of an Almighty and prayer-hear-<br/>
ing God. Professor Park, of Andover, who<br/>
visited him in 1863, says of him, "I never<br/>
saw a man so wonderful—so much like a<br/>
being of another world and a superior<br/>
race."—THE PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Carlyle on John Knox.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thomas Carlyle, in his late inaugural<br/>
address to the Edinburgh students, paid a<br/>
noble tribute to the Puritan Reformers in<br/>
general, and to John Knox in particular.<br/>
Having remarked of Cromwell : "I don't<br/>
know, in any history of Greece or Rome,<br/>
where you will get so fine a man as Oliver<br/>
Cromwell, he added:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And we have had men worthy of mem-<br/>
ory in our own corner of the island here<br/>
as well as others, and our history has been<br/>
strong at least in being connected with the<br/>
world history, for, if you examine well,<br/>
you will find that John Knox was the au-<br/>
thor, as it were, of Oliver Cromwell ; that<br/>
the Puritan Revolution would never have<br/>
taken place in England at all, had it not<br/>
been for that Scotchman. That is an au-<br/>
thentic fact, and is not prompted by na-<br/>
tional vanity on my part at all. And it is<br/>
very possible, if you look at the struggle<br/>
that was then going on in England, as I<br/>
have had to do in my time, you will see<br/>
that the people were overawed by the im-<br/>
mense impediments lying in the way. A<br/>
small minority of God-fearing men in the<br/>
country were flying away with any ship<br/>
they could get, to New England, rather<br/>
than take the lion by the beard. They<br/>
dare not confront the powers with their<br/>
most just complaints to be delivered from<br/>
idolatry. They wanted to make the nation<br/>
altogether conformable to the Hebrew Bi-<br/>
ble, which they understood to be accord-<br/>
ing to the will of God, and there could be<br/>
no aim more legitimate. However, they<br/>
could not have got their desire fulfilled at<br/>
all if Knox had not succeeded by the firm-<br/>
ness and nobleness of his mind ; for he is<br/>
also of the select of the earth to me—-John<br/>
Knox. What he has suffered from the<br/>
ungrateful generation that have followed<br/>
him, should really make us humble our-<br/>
selves to the dust, to think that the most<br/>
excellent man our country has produced,<br/>
to whom we owe everything that has dis-<br/>
tinguished us among modern nations,<br/>
should have been so sneered at and abused.<br/>
Knox was heard in Scotland—-the people<br/>
heard him with the marrow of their bones—<br/>
they took up his doctrine, and they defied<br/>
principalities and powers to move them<br/>
from it. "We must have it," they said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This doctrine of Knox, which inspired<br/>
the people of Scotland, and which gave<br/>
birth to Cromwell and the Puritan Revolu-<br/>
tion, we need not say was Calvinism. We<br/>
do not think that its virtues are yet ex-<br/>
tinct, nor that a little more of it would<br/>
hurt the American people, or make them<br/>
less firm and invincible than Knox and his<br/>
followers. The New England Fathers had<br/>
the same spirit, because they had the same<br/>
faith. If we would inherit and perpetuate<br/>
the former, we must not abandon the lat-<br/>
ter. The doctrine of the absolute sover-<br/>
eignty of God and of the absolute depen-<br/>
dence of man—it is the doctrine to make<br/>
men at once humble and strong, obedient<br/>
and unconquerable. The faith of the Scotch<br/>
Reformer, of the English Puritan, of the<br/>
New England Pilgrim, is yet needed to<br/>
steel the supporters of freedom, of justice<br/>
and of pure christianity in America. En-<br/>
larged, liberalized, humanized, let it be as<br/>
much as you please, but not diluted, nor<br/>
mutilated, nor sublimated to mere va-<br/>
por."—-THE PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Accessory Before the Fact.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the President issued his pro-<br/>
clamation for the capture of Davis,<br/>
charging him with a part in the assas-<br/>
sination of Lincoln, the accusation was<br/>
almost too enormous for belief. And<br/>
when time dragged on without his arraign-<br/>
ment, and the trial of the chief assassins<br/>
failed to prove the complicity of the<br/>
Richmond authorities, it seemed that<br/>
Mr. Johnson acted hastily and without<br/>
good evidence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report of the judiciary commit-<br/>
tee, to whom was referred this whole<br/>
matter, will materially change public<br/>
conviction. The testimony is so strong<br/>
that the committee do not hesitate to<br/>
say that it is PROBABLE that Davis was<br/>
accessory before the fact to Mr. Lin-<br/>
coln's death. The evidence which they<br/>
present, gathered from the captured r.<br/>
b. el archives, lacks but a link or too to<br/>
make the chain of full conviction com-<br/>
plete. Whether that link will ever be<br/>
found, and Mr. Davis' crimes stand to<br/>
public gaze crowned with that greater<br/>
one, at the thought of which the world<br/>
stands aghast, is uncertain. It is proved<br/>
that plans and propositions for the mur-<br/>
der of the Federal authorities were re-<br/>
ceived and considered by him, and the<br/>
very papers, endorsed in his own hand<br/>
writing are in possession of our authori-<br/>
ties. It is proved that Booth was in pre-<br/>
vious communication with and in the<br/>
confidence of the rebel cabinet, and that<br/>
he also was in communication with the<br/>
leaders in the plots to burn New York,<br/>
blow up the National Capital and burn<br/>
the Mississippi steam boats, and that<br/>
these fiendish enterprises were set on<br/>
foot by Davis and his advisers. And to<br/>
remove all doubt that Mr. Davis could<br/>
stoop to such, a depth of villainy the<br/>
documentary evidence is produced that<br/>
he was directly responsible for the hor-<br/>
rors of Andersonville and Belle Isle, that<br/>
he knew the state of things in the prison-<br/>
depots when at their worst, and refused<br/>
to interfere to ameliorate them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the light of these revelations we do<br/>
not wonder that there is a hurrying of<br/>
Davis' counsel to Fortress Monroe, and<br/>
long consultations. Nor do we wonder<br/>
at the nervous sleepiness of the crim-<br/>
inal which complained of a quiet sentry's<br/>
tread as unendurable.—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Seward-—Then and Now.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These are the words which Mr. Sew-<br/>
ard hears from old friends as he turns<br/>
his back on those principles of which he<br/>
once made so proud defense. Says the<br/>
Utica HERALD:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been our habit to confide in<br/>
William H. Seward. We remember when,<br/>
“faithful among the faithless,” he held<br/>
high the banner of liberty and human<br/>
rights, and his ringing words aroused the<br/>
country like a clarion. We cannot forget<br/>
the services he rendered to that cause<br/>
through trying years in the Senate, when<br/>
great men fell away from it. History<br/>
will make mention that he steered the<br/>
ship of State amid foreign breakers and<br/>
storms, when a false movement of the<br/>
rudder would have ruined it. His name<br/>
is subscribed to the Emancipation Pro-<br/>
clamation with that of Lincoln. He can-<br/>
not, if he would, sever his name from the<br/>
destruction of slavery in the land. Weary<br/>
with cares and with years, does he now<br/>
refuse to go further in the work of es-<br/>
tablishing liberty and securing justice?<br/>
Jubilant over what has been gained, is<br/>
he ready to forgive his old enemies? So<br/>
far no one can complain. It is when Mr.<br/>
Seward prefers enemies to friends, when<br/>
he throws his influence for reaction, when<br/>
he casts away the records of his life and<br/>
enters on a sole[?] in which success is in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
famy, he must go without the associates<br/>
who have held him up heretofore, without<br/>
the inspiration of the principles which<br/>
have made him all he is.—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Authentic Account of the
New Orleans Riot.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY A UNION SOLDIER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The following letter was not design-<br/>
ed for publication; but, as we so thor-<br/>
oughly know the writer's truthfulness and<br/>
intelligence, we lay his authentic account<br/>
before our readers. Our correspondent has<br/>
been a twenty years' resident in the South,<br/>
and was a Union officer during the war.—-<br/>
ED. INDEPENDENT.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
NEW ORLEANS, LA., JULY 31, 1866.
MS. THEODORE TILTON; MY DEAR SIR:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yesterday was a sad day for New Or-<br/>
leans. The Convention of '64 met at<br/>
noon, at the Mechanics' Institute. After<br/>
calling the roll, on motion of Hon. King<br/>
Cutler, a recess of one hour, to admit<br/>
the sergeant-at-arms time to bring in the<br/>
absent members, was carried unanimously.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the interim, on a preconcerted<br/>
arrangement made by the mayor, the<br/>
alarm-bells were tolled, and the conven-<br/>
tion was attacked by the whole united<br/>
police force. It can be proven, whenever<br/>
an investigation may be had, that the<br/>
mayor issued orders to the entire police<br/>
force to be in readiness, and doubly arm-<br/>
ed. At twelve o'clock on Sunday night<br/>
the police were called off their stations.<br/>
On Saturday Rebel Gen. Harry T. Hayes,<br/>
sheriff of New Orleans, swore in 250<br/>
extra deputies. The rebels were cut-and-<br/>
dried for the affray and they carried out<br/>
their vile intent with a vengeance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been their intent to frustrate<br/>
the action of the convention at any and<br/>
every hazard. The Union men did not<br/>
suspect anything more than that writs for<br/>
the arrest of the members of the conven-<br/>
tion would perhaps be issued.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About one o'clock p. m. yesterday, the<br/>
Institute was surrounded by the whole<br/>
rebel police force-—for all these are parol-<br/>
ed rebel soldiers—-and others in citizens<br/>
clothes, all armed to the teeth. About<br/>
two hundred negroes were in the hall of<br/>
the Institute and outside in the street.<br/>
I was in the hall when the convention<br/>
took a recess, and for twenty-five minutes<br/>
afterward. I had been sick, and just out<br/>
of the hospital, and went out to take<br/>
some refreshment. I noticed, particularly,<br/>
that the negroes were not armed, except,<br/>
perhaps, some who may have had small<br/>
pistols in their pockets. As a proof of<br/>
this, the rebels killed between sixty and<br/>
seventy negroes and wounded 150 more.<br/>
Ninety wounded negroes were carried to<br/>
the marine hospital, who, when released<br/>
by the military, were unable to go to<br/>
their homes, being too badly mutilated.<br/>
Only a few policemen were wounded,<br/>
and it is supposed they shot each other<br/>
accidentally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ten policemen rushed up the stairs of<br/>
the hall, and commenced firing indiscri-<br/>
minately at black and white. Dr. Hulton,<br/>
Baptist minister, who offered prayer at<br/>
the opening of the convention, cried to<br/>
the police, "For God's sake not to fire,"<br/>
that "the people were unarmed," etc.<br/>
But nothing could induce these fiends to<br/>
desist; they fired away, and killed and<br/>
wounded many. They retired but to re-<br/>
load, and returned to the bloody work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I was returning to the hall of the In-<br/>
stitute when the word was passed along<br/>
the street, "A riot! a riot!" I saw a negro<br/>
coming from the Institute all bloody. I<br/>
went on to within one square of the hall,<br/>
when a general hub-hub was raised, and<br/>
shots fired as if a regiment of soldiers<br/>
were engaged in a regular battle, people<br/>
running to and fro. I went into a house<br/>
and to the second story, where I had a<br/>
full view. I saw a negro shot down, and<br/>
several beating him with sticks and brick-<br/>
bats; a policeman came up, and struck<br/>
him with a mace; he was dragged across<br/>
the street, and beaten on the head and<br/>
back with bricks and clubs, and then<br/>
dragged off to jail. I saw another man<br/>
across the street, near the railroad car;<br/>
he was shot down and dragged into the<br/>
gutter. I saw another dragged out of<br/>
the Harrow-street car, and shot at sev-<br/>
eral times; I saw a policeman shoot him,<br/>
not eight feet distant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every place where a negro was found<br/>
about the hall of the convention was the<br/>
signal of his murder. Many hid themsel-<br/>
ves under the houses, and in corners in<br/>
coalpiles, ect.; but were unmercifully<br/>
shot, and stabbed, and beaten. The riots<br/>
of Memphis were but child's play to this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This has all emanated from the policy<br/>
inaugurated by Andy Johnson. Where<br/>
it will end God only knows. There is no<br/>
security for life or liberty here—for white<br/>
men, much less negroes. I tell you—and<br/>
mark my words for it—-that it will not be<br/>
five years from this day—-if every thing<br/>
goes on here in the same progressive ratio<br/>
as in the past twelve months—when slav-<br/>
ery will be established in this state, in one<br/>
shape or another.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the blood which has been shed<br/>
should be justly laid upon Andrew John-<br/>
son and his accursed policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fourth of July.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The editor of the Xenia TORCHLIGHT<br/>
gave the National Anniversary the fol-<br/>
lowing puff:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“It is only ninety years ago to-day<br/>
since the sublime Declaration of Indepen-<br/>
dence announced our country to be one<br/>
of the nations of the earth. There are<br/>
men now living whose age reaches back<br/>
to the birth of the nation. A nation not<br/>
older than a man, with thirty millions of<br/>
population, thirty hundred millions of<br/>
public debt, eight million traitors, and—-<br/>
Andrew Johnson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a hurried little history for ninety<br/>
years. But that is what we have come<br/>
to. Yet our record has some luminous<br/>
lines in it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have distinctly whipped Great<br/>
Britain twice. (N. B. We are hankering<br/>
to do it again.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have waved the banner of glory in<br/>
and around the Halls of the Montezumas.<br/>
(and we have about made up our mind<br/>
that Maximilian has waved his there<br/>
nearly long enough.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have built incredible thousands of<br/>
miles of railroad. (Likewise, we have<br/>
smashed incredible thousands of Ameri-<br/>
can people thereon.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have invented and put in practice<br/>
an infinite tangle of telegraph all over<br/>
this continent. (And we keep it to the<br/>
top of its lightning in diffusing Associated-<br/>
Press dispatches and Johnson’s vetoes.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have searched the old forest with<br/>
republican civilization, from the Atlantic<br/>
to the Pacific coast. (In which process<br/>
we have combed out and cracked innum-<br/>
erable vile vermin of humanity called<br/>
“red men of the forest,”-—romantically<br/>
so called.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have given to the world the bless-<br/>
ed sewing machine and Hoe’s cylinder<br/>
press. (With which we are in a way to<br/>
sew up and Hoe down all creation.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have fought the greatest civil war<br/>
of the world’s history, crushing a con-<br/>
spiracy of eight million people,—-the most<br/>
causelessly, criminally, and desperately<br/>
treasonable people the sun ever shone<br/>
upon. (Besides, we squelched, in the<br/>
same process, the hundreds of thousands<br/>
—-we don’t know how many—of their<br/>
copperhead allies in our midst; and were<br/>
so lamentably magnanimous as not to<br/>
have hanged any of them,—-letting them<br/>
all live to vote us back to where we fought<br/>
out from.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have, by this war, righted the most<br/>
stupendous wrong of christendom, strik-<br/>
ing off the shackles from four million<br/>
slaves, and restoring to them those “un-<br/>
alienable rights of life, liberty, and the<br/>
pursuit of happiness” which our 4th-of-<br/>
July Declaration maintains that all are<br/>
“endowed with.” (We are taking meas-<br/>
ures to secure these freed loyalists in the<br/>
aforesaid rights by remanding them to<br/>
the mild and patriarchal rule of those<br/>
whose judicious and gentle lash has go-<br/>
verned them hitherto, even as a fond<br/>
father governeth his wayward children.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this war, we put the finest body of<br/>
soldiers into the field that ever did bat-<br/>
tle,—-noble, generous, glorious men, who,<br/>
(God bless them!) lavished their lives by<br/>
the hundred thousand that we might still<br/>
be a nation. (And we manufactured<br/>
Generals and Colonels enough to fill our<br/>
offices for two generations.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this war, too, we found three of the<br/>
grandest heroes of history.—-Grant, Sher-<br/>
man, Sheridan. (This was after we had<br/>
found George B. McClellan.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had for President, from the begin-<br/>
ning to the end of this war, one of the<br/>
most honest, earnest, genuine men that<br/>
even guided a people through the Red<br/>
Sea of battle. (We have-—Andrew John-<br/>
son.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such are some of the glories (and so<br/>
forth) that it is natural to recur to on<br/>
this 4th of July. And it is natural, too,<br/>
to look round and contemplate results.<br/>
We have the ninety years of national<br/>
growth before us—-and that with slavery’s<br/>
mortal poison in the national soul and<br/>
body. Look at it, and, without any 4th-<br/>
of-July fustian, say if there is anything<br/>
in the books that can be named in com-<br/>
parison. In spite of the shameful and<br/>
degrading drawback, we have risen to a<br/>
standing with the first rate powers of the<br/>
earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But, the stain on the banner now dyed<br/>
out with patriotic blood, we go forward<br/>
from a new era henceforth. Ten 4ths of<br/>
July from this will not have passed till<br/>
we shall be recognized as the controlling<br/>
power on the globe. This is not patriotic<br/>
prophecy; this is the logic of events—-<br/>
destiny.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dear readers, may we all celebrate<br/>
that hundredth 4th of July. And let us<br/>
live, and act, and vote as to feel that we<br/>
have contributed our share to promote<br/>
the integrity, peace, prosperity, and gran-<br/>
deur of the Great Republic.—-Lo. Co.<br/>
News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EMPLOYMENT. “Nature’s physician,” is<br/>
so essential to human happiness, that indo-<br/>
lence is justly considered as the “mother<br/>
of misery.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
October 25th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An outlook Homeward.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the last Chow Phya we are in<br/>
receipt of telegrams from U. S. to the<br/>
7th September; from London to the<br/>
8th September; papers from the States<br/>
to the 23d of August; from London to<br/>
8th September; from Serampore to<br/>
20th ult; from Penang to 22d Sept.,<br/>
from Shanghai to 15th September, from<br/>
Hongkong to 27th September and<br/>
from Singapore to 6th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace appears to be fully establish-<br/>
ed in Europe, and the results of the<br/>
late war no less inspiring of hope, to<br/>
our minds, than when we ventured to<br/>
pen our thoughts on the subject four<br/>
weeks ago. We feel confident that we<br/>
shall yet see more and more occasion<br/>
to admire our King of kings for his<br/>
wisdom and power, faithfulness and<br/>
love in overruling and directing the<br/>
political affairs of Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The signs of the times in the U. S.<br/>
seem to indicate a very stormy time near<br/>
at hand. President Johnson still ad-<br/>
heres to his policy of admitting all the<br/>
Southern States, lately glowing hot in<br/>
rebellion and now but doubtfully<br/>
penitent, to full representation in Con-<br/>
gress without delay: and Congress still<br/>
opposes it with great wisdom and<br/>
power though there have been some<br/>
deplorable defections from her ranks.<br/>
It is very sad to see the President<br/>
using his great power to proscribe the<br/>
Republican party who raised him to<br/>
his high seat, and on whose platform<br/>
he pledged himself to abide. His pro-<br/>
mises of being a Moses to the Freed-<br/>
men, he seems to have abandoned,<br/>
leaving them to fight their own way<br/>
alone through the wilderness, beset<br/>
with most fearful dangers. Instead of<br/>
exerting his influence to punish any<br/>
leader of the rebellion, and thus asser-<br/>
ting 'the majesty of the law against<br/>
treason, as he has often said he would do,<br/>
he pardons all. It looks too much as<br/>
if he had gone back into Egypt and<br/>
become confederate with Pharaoh and<br/>
his host.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He seems now to fraternize more<br/>
with Southern politicians, whose hands<br/>
have been imbued in the blood of hun-<br/>
dreds of thousands of Union men, than<br/>
with the party who under God sub-<br/>
dued the rebellion, and who elected<br/>
him to power. He is making most<br/>
extraordinary efforts to form a new<br/>
political organization composed of<br/>
those Southerners, and those at the<br/>
North who sympathized with them in<br/>
the rebellion. He is determined to<br/>
swell their ranks by all the power he<br/>
has to make backsliders from the Re-<br/>
publican party. He hopes to sway<br/>
the elections this fall so that the next<br/>
Congress will favor his policy of re-<br/>
construction, leaving the question of<br/>
the full enfranchisement of the blacks<br/>
to be disposed of as shall best suit<br/>
their old masters. We must say that<br/>
we can have little hope for any peace<br/>
and prosperity to the Freedmen for a<br/>
whole generation to come, if that poli-<br/>
cy shall be fully inaugurated. But<br/>
our hope in God is, that he will leave<br/>
Mr. Johnson to work out his own over-<br/>
throw in the course he is taking, that<br/>
the people of the States will thus be<br/>
incited to come to the polls against<br/>
him with overwhelming majorities,<br/>
and that the next Congress will be<br/>
found even stronger against him than<br/>
the one which has just been disbanded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Philadelphia Convention, held<br/>
last August for raising a new political<br/>
party for sustaining the President's<br/>
policy, appears to have been the most<br/>
extraordinary "deliberative body"<br/>
of politicians which the U. S. has ever<br/>
had. We cannot learn that there was<br/>
any exchange of sentiment on its floor<br/>
whatever. One of the most respectable<br/>
public journals of the States declares<br/>
that the convention did nothing but<br/>
appear in dress-parade before its<br/>
leaders, that its total sessions amount-<br/>
ed to less than five hours, two of<br/>
which were occupied by the reading<br/>
of the address and the declaration of<br/>
sentiment, that all motions, resolutions,<br/>
and nominations were prepared be-<br/>
fore hand, that every State delegation<br/>
voted in its private committee-room<br/>
and that no member was allowed to<br/>
speak except by unanimous consent<br/>
of the delegation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The argument of the convention for<br/>
admitting the Southern States to Con-<br/>
gress, is founded mainly on the soph-<br/>
istical idea that Southern States are<br/>
now in the Union. "Why" says the<br/>
same Journal "are they in? They are<br/>
in because they were never out. But<br/>
are these States entitled to be in<br/>
Congress just because they are in the<br/>
Union? Were they not, according<br/>
to the argument, just as much in the<br/>
Union as they are now? And were<br/>
they entitled to sit in Congress during<br/>
the war? Such a proposition shocks<br/>
common sense. If, then they were in<br/>
the Union during the war, yet not in<br/>
Congress, they can be in the Union<br/>
now, and not in Congress."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
[We extract the following article from<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder for 1860, thinking<br/>
that few of our readers are acquainted<br/>
with the customs therein described, and<br/>
that those even who are will not take it<br/>
amiss to have their memories thus revived<br/>
on subjects to which the present season is<br/>
especially calling their attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The phrase KOW WASA means the com-<br/>
mencement of the wet season and AWK<br/>
WASA means the going out or ending of<br/>
the wet season. These names however are<br/>
not to be understood as any thing near an<br/>
exact representation of the beginning and<br/>
ending of the wet season, for it really be-<br/>
gins two months earlier and ends generally<br/>
a month later.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The KOW WASA season always commen-<br/>
ces at the middle of the 8th Siamese month<br/>
and the AWK WASA at the middle of the<br/>
11th month. The intervening time of three<br/>
months has sometimes been denominated by<br/>
foreigners the BUDDHIST LENT.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
K'ow Wasa
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Buddhists who have much ven-<br/>
eration for their religion, anticipate<br/>
this season, by making special provi-<br/>
sion in behalf of the priests to serve<br/>
them for a term of 3 months on which<br/>
they then enter, and during which they<br/>
are deprived of the privilege of tra-<br/>
veling so far from the temples to<br/>
which they belong, as to make it ne-<br/>
cessary to spend a night away from<br/>
them. For their comfort during this<br/>
term of confinement, all classes set<br/>
themselves to provide for their parch-<br/>
ed rice and corn, flowers that never<br/>
fade, both natural and artificial, silver-<br/>
ed and gilded trees, figures of birds<br/>
and various animals beautifully con-<br/>
structed, and made to stand daily be-<br/>
fore them in their dormitories. On<br/>
the day of the 15th, they are formally<br/>
presented to them. Of these the<br/>
priests take a part and offer them to the<br/>
idol, and place them in order at his<br/>
feet to stand there for three months.<br/>
Another part they present to their<br/>
teachers, and elders, and aged priests<br/>
residing in the same temple. Having<br/>
done this, the priests then assemble<br/>
together and pledge themselves to the<br/>
idol, and to one another, that they will<br/>
not sleep out of their dormitories un-<br/>
til the expiration of the three months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 15th waxing of the 11th moon<br/>
is the day when Buddhist customs<br/>
allow the priests to come out of their<br/>
confinement in the temples, and travel<br/>
as far away from home as they please.<br/>
To provide for them suitable clothing<br/>
during their wanderings, extraordin-<br/>
ary efforts are made by the laity, from<br/>
the highest to the lowest, in anticipa-<br/>
tion of these days.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The awk wasa Holidays.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Kings especially, take care to<br/>
have innumerable bales of white c.tton<br/>
shirting cut up into small pieces,<br/>
and then sewed together into large<br/>
priest robes to imitate apparel made up<br/>
of patchwork, for Buddhist priests in<br/>
the beginning clothed themselves with<br/>
rags, to show their self mortification.<br/>
But how greatly have they in these<br/>
days, departed from their original<br/>
simplicity! These robes are after-<br/>
wards, dyed yellow. They are not all,<br/>
nor the greater part, presented to the<br/>
priests on either of those days. A<br/>
whole month is required to finish the<br/>
offerings. There is on those three<br/>
days a general devotion to works of<br/>
merit-making.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Kings of Siam have on each<br/>
evening, a public exhibition of their<br/>
own personal offerings, made with<br/>
particular reference, it is said, to<br/>
Buddha's foot-print near the sea-shore<br/>
in a distant country, unknown, which<br/>
can only be reached by water convey-<br/>
ances. Consequently the offerings are<br/>
made on the river. They consist of<br/>
little skiffs and plantain stalk floats;<br/>
some in pagoda form, towering ten or<br/>
twelve feet; some bearing images of<br/>
birds and beasts, real and fabulous;<br/>
with other varieties innumerable, all<br/>
splendidly illuminated with wax can-<br/>
dles. These offerings are floated off<br/>
in regular succession, one by one, by<br/>
the ministration of His Majesty's ser-<br/>
vants, he himself being present in his<br/>
royal seat on the river. The offerings<br/>
float down with the ebb tide, beauti-<br/>
fully illuminating the river for several<br/>
miles before their lights burn out. Af-<br/>
ter this, many of the naked floats are<br/>
captured by the people, and each skiff<br/>
is returned by the man who had<br/>
charge of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This part of the ceremony being<br/>
finished, the King then ignites a match<br/>
to the fire-works arranged in boats, in<br/>
the midst of the river; when a new<br/>
scene breaks forth. Fire trees are seen<br/>
standing in the river; and by their<br/>
powerful sulphurous blaze, illuminate<br/>
much of the city. Presently the glo-<br/>
ry of these depart, and then a line of<br/>
flowering shrubbery made by fire ap-<br/>
pear, and develope their varied flow-<br/>
ers, continually changing their hue.<br/>
After this, rockets and squibs of great<br/>
variety are shot off from boats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The people generally make their<br/>
own family offerings, on those three<br/>
evenings, several hours before the<br/>
King comes out of his palace. You<br/>
may see them all over the city, on the<br/>
rivers and canals near their homes.<br/>
They consist of the arks made of the<br/>
inner layers of the stalk of the Scilla<br/>
maratima, illuminated by wax can-<br/>
dles, and squibs innumerable flying in<br/>
the open heavens, and frolicking in the<br/>
water. The prevailing notion among<br/>
the common people seems to be, that<br/>
these fire-works are offerings to the<br/>
genii of the land and water, to ex-<br/>
piate for the sin of polluting their do-<br/>
mains with the excrement and filth of<br/>
man and beast, as they have done, dur-<br/>
ing the 12 months which are then<br/>
about to close.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the time onward thence to the<br/>
1st day of the 12th waning moon, is<br/>
regarded as being peculiarly propiti-<br/>
ous for making offerings to the priests,<br/>
and worshiping the idol. About the<br/>
beginning of the 12th month, the<br/>
Kings, one at a time, make their ap-<br/>
pearance in their best estate, being es-<br/>
corted by vast processions by land and<br/>
water, carrying with them yellow<br/>
robes to present to the priests, with<br/>
their own hands, at the many temples<br/>
dedicated to them. Some 15 days are<br/>
almost wholly occupied in this way,<br/>
passing in great pomp from temple to<br/>
temple. Three or four of the temples<br/>
are usually visited by them daily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other temples not dedicated to the<br/>
Kings, are in the mean time visited<br/>
by large parties of Budd'h's followers,<br/>
who unite together in processions by<br/>
water, and carry yellow apparel, fruits,<br/>
and other things, to their priests after<br/>
the fashion set them by their Sover-<br/>
eigns
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About the same time, many parties<br/>
get together evenings, and make a<br/>
great show of lanterns, gongs, and<br/>
trumpets, on the river, in bearing to<br/>
temples, yellow garments, and fruit,<br/>
suspended on bushes fixed in their<br/>
boats. Having arrived at their desti-<br/>
nation, the priests come out and pick<br/>
them off from the bushes, according to<br/>
their several wants. This custom is<br/>
said to have originated in the fact,<br/>
that Buddhist priests in olden time,<br/>
lived in the woods, and satisfied their<br/>
daily wants by gathering wild fruits,<br/>
and old cast-off clothing. Such self-<br/>
mortification is said to have been high-<br/>
ly praised by Buddha. How widely<br/>
have the priests in these latter days,<br/>
departed, in this matter as well as in<br/>
most others, from the teachings of<br/>
their venerated Head!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 14th and 15th of the 12th wax-<br/>
ing, and 1st of the waning moon are<br/>
the closing holidays for the season. On<br/>
these three days, the Kings have extra-<br/>
ordinary religious services in their res-<br/>
pective palaces, and late in the evening<br/>
of each day, make offerings of fire-works<br/>
publicly on the river, much as on the<br/>
former occasion, but more complete<br/>
and beautiful. This is the better time<br/>
of the two, to witness those plays, as<br/>
the weather is almost sure to be fine,<br/>
the sky cloudless, with a full moon in<br/>
extraordinary splendor.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A two legged Hog.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Less than a year since we were on<br/>
our way to Petchaburee in company<br/>
with Mr J. Thomson the Photograph-<br/>
er, and stopped a while at one of the<br/>
temples in the town of Maaklawng.<br/>
Here we called the attention of Mr. T.<br/>
to a great animal curiosity which we<br/>
had many times before seen, and<br/>
which we thought would make an in-<br/>
teresting photographic picture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The creature is a sow about ten<br/>
years old, and would probably weigh<br/>
more than one hundred pounds. She<br/>
was born without any hind legs.<br/>
There seems to have been an essay of<br/>
nature to form them, but became a-<br/>
bortive after the first incipient effort<br/>
had been made. There is something<br/>
within the integuments where the legs<br/>
should be, which work back and forth<br/>
on walking, as if they were short<br/>
stumps of the thigh bones. The pig<br/>
moves about slowly on her two legs<br/>
dragging her breach on the ground.<br/>
She was presented to the priests of<br/>
that temple when quite young to pro-<br/>
tect and rear as a meritorious work,<br/>
and they seem to have been faithful<br/>
to the charge committed to them.<br/>
We proposed to purchase the hog of<br/>
the priests, but they would not con-<br/>
sent to sell the creature at any price.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a singular coincidence that the<br/>
Siamese twins of world wide celebri-<br/>
ty for their monstrous union, and<br/>
this hog monster were born, not only<br/>
in the same country, but also in the<br/>
same town, and very nearly in the<br/>
same place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Thomson, thinking it a good<br/>
opportunity to increase the number of<br/>
his many interesting pictures of Siam-<br/>
ese creatures and things, determined<br/>
to try his skill on the hog. So while<br/>
he was making ready his instrument to<br/>
do so, we procured a few plantains and<br/>
by them beguiled the pig to a favora-<br/>
ble spot. We found it quite diffi-<br/>
cult to persuade the creature to<br/>
balance herself steadily on her two<br/>
legs like a cat in a sitting posture. Mr.<br/>
T. took three pictures of her," and<br/>
found the first one taken the best.<br/>
The one preserved represents, the hog<br/>
in its only possible standing position,<br/>
that is standing on her two feet while<br/>
resting her breach on the ground.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The priests of the Wat were a good<br/>
deal interested in witnessing the ex-<br/>
periment, but not the hundredth part<br/>
as much so as it seemed to us we<br/>
would have been in their circum-<br/>
stances. But the truth is, we cannot<br/>
tell what we should or should not feel<br/>
in all the ignorance and stupidity of<br/>
Buddhist priests. It is a great part<br/>
of their religion to look with a spiritual<br/>
heart upon every thing that is curious,<br/>
beautiful, and wonderful.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A FISH CURING ESTABLISHMENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having to wait until the next<br/>
morning watch, either there or at the<br/>
mouth of the Maaklawung river three<br/>
miles distant, before it would be safe<br/>
to cross over the bay toward Petcha-<br/>
buree, we concluded to stay in the<br/>
town of Maaklawng until sunset and<br/>
get all the information we could from<br/>
the people near by. We first walked<br/>
into an establishment for curing<br/>
the pla coo, which is a small salt<br/>
water fish about the size of herring,<br/>
and very abundant in the gulf. When<br/>
slightly salted and properly steamed,<br/>
they are very nice to eat with rice.<br/>
Thus prepared they are called plat oo<br/>
nung, and are sold by pedilers at 7½<br/>
cts. for 30 or 40. But the fish esta-<br/>
blishments at Maaklawung are designed<br/>
chiefly for preparing the fish for ex-<br/>
portation to Batavia and other ports<br/>
in the Indian Archipelago, and when<br/>
ready for market they are called pla<br/>
too k'em—Salt p'at oo. The works we<br/>
visited had in its employ from twelve<br/>
to fifteen persons whose sole business<br/>
is to dress the fish, and then salt and<br/>
dry them. They have nothing to do<br/>
in catching them, this work being done<br/>
by other parties entirely distinct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The latter go out in their fish boats<br/>
to the mouth of the river late in the<br/>
evening, and wait until the calm of the<br/>
morning, from midnight to 8 or 9<br/>
o'clock A.M. When the sea is calm they<br/>
scare the fish in large schools into<br/>
enclosures made by stakes stuck in<br/>
the mud, so arranged as that the two<br/>
sides of the enclosure come together<br/>
at an acute angle where the fish are<br/>
caught in nets by thousands at a time,<br/>
and put into the boats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fish are always the most a-<br/>
bundant at seasons when the wind is<br/>
generally from the head of the gulf,<br/>
as their nature is to resist the current<br/>
made by the wind. Consequently the<br/>
best season for fishing them is during<br/>
the North East monsoon; and that<br/>
too, very providentially, is the very<br/>
best season for preparing them for<br/>
market, as no rain falls from week to<br/>
week, and the sun by which they are<br/>
dried is unobstructed by clouds. In<br/>
fact the fish in the wet season are so<br/>
scarce, and the weather so precarious<br/>
that little of any consequence is ever<br/>
done at these fisheries but to prepare<br/>
their establishments and fishing<br/>
grounds for the next dry season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as the fish boats come into<br/>
the mouth of the river they are met<br/>
by the servants of the curing esta-<br/>
blishments, bidding for each load.<br/>
Hence the fish are sold to the highest<br/>
bidder, usually, before they get into<br/>
town.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The companies who cure the fish,<br/>
hire men and women to dress and<br/>
put them into brine at the rate of<br/>
7½ cents a person for each boat-load.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
They are salted in large wooden tubs<br/>
holding from three to four hogsheads<br/>
each, and kept in brine three days.<br/>
They are then taken out and spread<br/>
about on bamboo slats raised three<br/>
feet from the ground and exposed to<br/>
the sun three days. When thus made<br/>
ready they are sold at the place for<br/>
22 Ticals per 10000 on an average.<br/>
Many are spoiled before they reach the<br/>
brine and become exceedingly offen-<br/>
sive. These are sold for manuring<br/>
den plants and other orchard and gar-<br/>
den plants. It is these rotten fish<br/>
which make the cori and betel or-<br/>
chards in the vicinity of Bangkok of-<br/>
ten times so exceedingly offensive to<br/>
the olfactory organs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_2_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NATIVE MODE OF HULLING RICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the fishery we went into a rice<br/>
hulling shed. The native mill for<br/>
hulling rice consists of a pair of circular<br/>
blocks like small mill stones. The<br/>
nether mill block is usually about 18<br/>
inches both in diameter and thickness,<br/>
fixed firmly to its place by stakes driven<br/>
into the ground. There may be two<br/>
or more of them in the same shed. Its<br/>
upper surface is thickly set with rows<br/>
of teeth made of the hardest wood, ap-<br/>
parently driven into the block, but<br/>
really set in a kind of cement which<br/>
becomes like stone when perfectly dry.<br/>
The teeth are set with the greatest<br/>
order much after the usual arrange-<br/>
ment of the grooves and ridges made<br/>
on mill stones. They are neatly trim-<br/>
med, so as to form an even plane to<br/>
match a similar set of teeth in the up-<br/>
per mill block. This is of the same<br/>
circumference, but only ten inches<br/>
thick, and has a hole near its middle,<br/>
a small bamboo basket-work hopper<br/>
attached, and a little basket fence en-<br/>
closing it at a distance of 4 inches.<br/>
It is fixed to its fellow by means of a<br/>
pivot in its centre, and is made to<br/>
revolve about this by a crank attached<br/>
to it. This block is turned by a rude<br/>
wooden shaft eight or ten feet long,<br/>
made fast to the crank by a pivot in<br/>
which it sits loosely. The outer end<br/>
of the shaft has a handle two or three<br/>
feet long to admit of two persons work-<br/>
ing it; and this is suspended to a<br/>
beam in the shed by a rope. The<br/>
workmen, or more commonly women,<br/>
take hold of the handle of the shaft,<br/>
and pushing or pulling, as the case<br/>
may be, turn the mill block the half<br/>
of the circle, and then by the opposite<br/>
motion make it complete the revolution.<br/>
And thus they do rapidly until they<br/>
get out of breath. It is a brisk exer-<br/>
cise for two stout persons, and quite<br/>
hard work for a single one. The hull-<br/>
ed rice comes out of the mill all about<br/>
its circumference, and is scraped to<br/>
the door way of the basket work sur-<br/>
rounding the mill, by a little paddle<br/>
attached to the block.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next process is to fan out the chaff<br/>
which the natives do by two modes.—<br/>
The one by throwing it up and down in<br/>
the breeze on a large flat and shallow<br/>
bamboo basket, catching it with the<br/>
same as it falls down. The other by a<br/>
wooden fanning mill with wood cogs,<br/>
much like those we used to turn 40<br/>
years ago when timber was cheap; and<br/>
labor saving machines little known.<br/>
It makes us groan, even now, to think<br/>
of the sweats we had in turning those<br/>
mills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rice as thus hulled is far from<br/>
being clean enough to use in cooking,<br/>
but sufficiently so for exportation. To<br/>
prepare it for cooking it has to go<br/>
through another process. And that is<br/>
to put it into a wooden mortar and<br/>
pound it with a wooden pestle. The<br/>
mortars are simply blocks of hard<br/>
wood two feet long and 18 inches in<br/>
diameter, chiselled out so as to form a<br/>
vessel of conical shape, and to hold a<br/>
half bushel or more of grain. The<br/>
pestles are of two kinds. One of them<br/>
is merely a round stick of hard wood<br/>
made conical at each end—-slender<br/>
and wasp-shape in the middle, for the<br/>
convenience of handling. Its weight<br/>
may be 10 or 15 pounds. One or two<br/>
persons grasp it in its middle, and<br/>
strike it down on the rice in the mor-<br/>
tar. The other kind of pestle is a<br/>
piece of hard wood framed perpen-<br/>
dicularly into a heavy horizontal shaft<br/>
which rocks up and down on a pin<br/>
passing through two posts. The end<br/>
on which the pestle is attached is<br/>
much heavier than the other. It is<br/>
worked by two or more men or women<br/>
treading on the lighter end, and when<br/>
down they raise their feet, which leaves<br/>
the pestle to fall heavily into the mortar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This process thoroughly cleans the<br/>
rice of its chaff, and when winnowed<br/>
on the basket winnower, comes out<br/>
white almost as snow. This work is<br/>
called by the Siamese Sawn Kow.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Presbytery of Siam will meet<br/>
on Thursday, Nov. 1st at 10 A. M. in<br/>
the Chapel of the Presbyterian Mis-<br/>
sion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Presbytery will be opened with<br/>
a sermon by Rev. D. McGilvary. All<br/>
who are interested are cordially invit-<br/>
ed to attend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya arrived<br/>
on the 16th inst from Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Harvey, Principal Manager of<br/>
the Borneo Co. Limited, R. R. Scott<br/>
Esqr. P. Littlejohn Esq. Mr. Muller,<br/>
and 2 Rajahs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers by Chow Phya sailed on<br/>
the 22nd inst, for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Campbell and two children,<br/>
Tan Kim Chieng, Siamese Consul at<br/>
Singapore, and the Rajah of Quoda.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first of the royal fire works called<br/>
Lawi Katong come off on the evenings<br/>
of the 23d, 24th, and 25th inst. We<br/>
have heard no report of them except-<br/>
ing the noise, which the multitudes<br/>
made in frolicking on the river with il-<br/>
luminated little floats, with fire birds,<br/>
and fishes, and rockets, and with boat-<br/>
racing and shouting, from early lamp-<br/>
lighting till after midnight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next of the series will fall on<br/>
the 21st, 22d, and 23d proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Foreign shipping is arriving slowly.<br/>
We have now 14 vessels in port, most,<br/>
if not all of them, are loading cargo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese fleet having nearly all<br/>
sailed on their annual trip; there re-<br/>
main 26 vessels in port, and judging<br/>
from the appearance of some of them,<br/>
their sea-going days are over, and<br/>
they ought to be struck out of the list<br/>
of sea-worthy vessels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry to record that Mrs<br/>
Doctor Campbell, though convalescent<br/>
from many weeks of ill health, has felt<br/>
it to be her duty to leave Bangkok for<br/>
a season, and try a change in Singa-<br/>
pore for a more thorough restoration.<br/>
She left on the 22nd per Chow Phya,<br/>
taking with her her two small child-<br/>
ren. Her society will be greatly mis-<br/>
sed by all the European and American<br/>
ladies here, while they will earnestly<br/>
hope and pray for her return to them<br/>
after a month or two.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
To'day as we were out on the<br/>
river we saw some China-men bringing<br/>
down a raft of teak logs from above<br/>
the city, and when they came opposite<br/>
the mouth of Bangkok Yai canal, they<br/>
discovered 'that the raft was unfortu-<br/>
nately floating direct upon one of H<br/>
S. M's. gun boats anchored in the river.<br/>
The current was very swift, and they<br/>
were drawing close to the vessel. The<br/>
men on board were shouting to them<br/>
to push off to one side. The China-<br/>
men became excited and began to jab-<br/>
ber. They would push the raft first<br/>
to one side, then to the other. Some<br/>
appeared to be in favor of passing on<br/>
this side, and some wished to go on<br/>
that side, and instead of uniting their<br/>
strength to turn the raft to one side<br/>
the result was that they kept it direct<br/>
in the line of the vessel and brought it<br/>
down on the bows. The raft parted<br/>
on the anchor chain with a great crash,<br/>
and a part passed down on either side.<br/>
Just before it struck we saw two men,<br/>
one on each side bellowing at the top<br/>
of their voice and pushing with all<br/>
their might in opposite directions. In<br/>
an instant the men on board sprang<br/>
down and siezed the Chinamen, and<br/>
left the logs to float down with the<br/>
current. We suppose they were seized<br/>
to be punished for such a daring at-<br/>
tack upon a gun boat. So much for<br/>
not being UNITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that His Majesty's birth-<br/>
day dinner party for the Consuls and<br/>
Roman Catholic Bishop had well nigh<br/>
become an utter failure, not for the<br/>
want of attendance on the part of the<br/>
guests, but from want of what was<br/>
thought due attention on the part of<br/>
the king, and that but for extraordin-<br/>
ary efforts which His Majesty after-<br/>
wards made to re-call the dispersing<br/>
consuls he would scarcely have had<br/>
any but the French to represent the<br/>
Western powers. We hear also that<br/>
the second day dinner party of Euro-<br/>
peans and American was sadly slim<br/>
both in going and returning, and that<br/>
only one American attended it. The<br/>
truth in His Majesty's peculiar ideas of<br/>
absolutism and Imperialism are not<br/>
at all popular with the large majori-<br/>
ty of his western friends residing at<br/>
his capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
There have been four days of ex-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
extraordinary services, ending yesterday,<br/>
held in honor of His Royal Highness<br/>
Prince Somdetch CHOWFA CHULA<br/>
LOXKORN whose regular term of ser-<br/>
vice as a Nane closed the same day.<br/>
It is understood however that he will<br/>
remain in the Nane-hood a month<br/>
longer. We understand that on each<br/>
of those days there was preaching in<br/>
the royal palace by 15 different priests,<br/>
and that Prince CHOWFA himself made<br/>
his debut as a graduating nane by de-<br/>
livering one or more sermons in his<br/>
turn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The thing most extrsordinary about<br/>
the whole affair was, a monstrous sham<br/>
Junk near the eastern gate of the roy-<br/>
al palace loaded with all sorts and<br/>
kinds of eatables which the season af-<br/>
fords, and which the ingenuity of the<br/>
Chinese and Siamese could get up, and<br/>
then being on public exhibition sever-<br/>
al days were distributed to the thou-<br/>
sands of spectators, making special pro-<br/>
vision for the Buddhist priests and<br/>
all the royal officials.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are thankful to learn that His<br/>
Majesty has requested an able writer<br/>
to prepare for us an article descriptive<br/>
of the many curiosities that were there<br/>
exhibited, and that that article will<br/>
probably be ready for insertion in our<br/>
next issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment are introducing a quantity of<br/>
improved rifles for their army. Mo-<br/>
dern improvements are progressing<br/>
with such wonderful skill and rapidity<br/>
that governments scarcely know what<br/>
to do in the way of arming their forts,<br/>
ships, and armies. Should the im-<br/>
provements in instruments of war and<br/>
slaughter continue to progress for a<br/>
few years to come as they have done<br/>
for some years past, the day will soon<br/>
come when no nation will dare to<br/>
make war on another unless she be<br/>
quite sure of possessing a great advan-<br/>
tage over the other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While writing on this subject we<br/>
would remind government of the great<br/>
importance of rebuilding their forts and<br/>
putting them in good repair. The island<br/>
off the village of Paknam possesses<br/>
rare advantages for a strong fort, and<br/>
if properly rebuilt and mounted with<br/>
modern artillery, no ironclad nor any<br/>
other war vessel could ever pass it or<br/>
get up to Bangkok. {{< news/indent4 >}} Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty left the Royal palace<br/>
soon after 10 p. m. on Wednesday<br/>
evening the 25th inst, for a trip up<br/>
the river to the ancient city and pro-<br/>
vince of Pitsanuloke, and will probably<br/>
return about the 1st November. This<br/>
city was one of the early capitals of<br/>
Siam, and there are many interesting<br/>
historical reminiscences connected with<br/>
it. The river at this season of the year<br/>
is full to overflowing, and the tour<br/>
will be in steamers. No king of Siam<br/>
has visited this city, so far as we can<br/>
learn, for a hundred years or so, and<br/>
it must be quite an event for the<br/>
people to see their sovereign in those<br/>
regions. For this royal visit they<br/>
are indebted to the introduction of<br/>
steam, which has already wrought<br/>
wonders in Siam as well as in other<br/>
countries. The first steamer built in<br/>
Siam was launched on the 25th Sept.<br/>
1855, and was built by H. E. the<br/>
Prime Minister with the assistance of<br/>
J. H. Chandier Esq. who has the honor<br/>
of introducing steam boats and steam<br/>
machinery into the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Minister<br/>
returned from his tour to Ratburee<br/>
on the morning of the 25th inst.<br/>
The rice crop in the region is reported<br/>
to be one of the best for many years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GAS exhibition advertised in<br/>
our last to come off on the 24th, was<br/>
a failure, because the gas having been<br/>
made too long before hand became<br/>
so much decomposed by the heat of<br/>
the sun that it gave only a blue light<br/>
but slightly illuminating.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we are happy to add by way<br/>
of a postscript, on this evening of the<br/>
26th that Mr. Nelson succeeded ad-<br/>
mirably with the gas. He exhibited<br/>
an illuminated Elephant and the<br/>
initials of His Majesty the king of<br/>
Siam from a window in front of the<br/>
New Rice Mill, glistening, as it were,<br/>
with hundreds of fixed stars, closely<br/>
united. And when on leaving we<br/>
looked at it from a distance it was<br/>
bright like a full moon rising in the<br/>
clearest horizon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We sincerely hope Mr. N. will be<br/>
well supported in introducing this<br/>
great improvement of night lighting<br/>
not only in the Rice Mills but also<br/>
the many consulates, mercantile es-<br/>
tablishments, palaces etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PRICES CURRENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">42</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">46</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">54</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">97</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">5⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO</td>
 <td>HIDES</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">17</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td>Black</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER</td>
 <td>HORNS</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">175</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">73</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">19</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td>Nominally</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">68</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">310</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Bat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">325</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4 to 5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6 to 7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8 to 9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaslit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF—</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}pre : 10 d. s.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE-On Singapore 6 P cent
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS-Very little has been done in<br/>
charters, only two or three disengaged<br/>
vessels in port. Rates may be stated at<br/>
from 40 to 47 1/2 cents P picul for Hong<br/>
Kong. There is a slight demand for small<br/>
vessels to take fish to Java.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed for<br/>
Hong Kong since the 23d Sept. viz :-<br/>
British bark "G. SHOTTON" with 11073<br/>
picul rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "COSTA RICA" with 4405<br/>
piculs rice, 21 Sapanwood, 475 paddy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "STANLEY" with 2100 pi-<br/>
culs rice, 480 Sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "NORTHAM" with 8300<br/>
piculs rice, 135 Sugar, 15 horns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
French bark "EMMANUEL" with 5366<br/>
piculs rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch bark "G. H. SUSANNA" with<br/>
11,239 piculs rice, 75 Sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch ship "PIETER" with 14,063 pi-<br/>
culs rice, 218 Sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch bark "JOHANNA MARIA" with<br/>
10,221 piculs rice, 13 Sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "EASTFIELD" with 9,538<br/>
piculs rice, 65 Sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singapore,<br/>
since 1st, inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer "CHOW PHYA" with<br/>
1,779 piculs rice, 735 Sugar, 26 Hides, 90<br/>
Teelseed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "FLORENCE" with 4,742<br/>
piculs rice, 98 Sapanwood, 140 Sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British steamer "SEAWOOD" with 3,607<br/>
piculs rice, 150 Sapanwood, 180 Sugar, 52<br/>
horns, 197 Sticklac.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER XVI
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To a superficial observer, indepen-<br/>
dent of the question of right and<br/>
wrong, it might seem sound policy,<br/>
in a king to cluster around him a host<br/>
of women, and to take into his house-<br/>
hold wives from all the important no-<br/>
blemen's families in the kingdom but<br/>
it is neither sound policy for perman-<br/>
ent fame, or benevolent, or kind, or<br/>
human even.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
True, noblemen that have given a<br/>
daughter as a sort of hostage, may be<br/>
expected to be true and faithful, par-<br/>
ticularly so, if his daughter should<br/>
bear children to the king. But let the<br/>
king die, and then what follows? The<br/>
host of wives become dead weights to<br/>
clog the career of the reigning mon-<br/>
arch, and many of the children misera-<br/>
ble vagabonds because they have not<br/>
the money to sustain the career which<br/>
was planned for them in infancy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is not wisdom in such a<br/>
course aside from the light of christi-<br/>
anity Where are all the children of<br/>
the three hundred wives of the bro-<br/>
ther that sat on the throne during the<br/>
last reign in Siam? They had a tem-<br/>
porary notoriety it is true, while their<br/>
father lived, but their multitude, when<br/>
their father's patrimony was eked out<br/>
to them, placed them in the company<br/>
of those that had to make so many<br/>
shifts to eke out a subsistance, that<br/>
they have little time for fame or pa-<br/>
triotism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the saddest things on the<br/>
death of the preceding monarch was<br/>
the miserable condition of the concu-<br/>
bines he left behind him. They lead<br/>
a hopeless, aimless, miserable existence;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and such must be the destiny. of the<br/>
house-hold of him that now setteth<br/>
upon the throne, unless while he<br/>
yet lives he frecs them from their im-<br/>
pending destiny, restores them to their<br/>
parents, and bids them seek an alli-<br/>
ance that shall give them honorable<br/>
protection while they live, and a circle<br/>
of friends, tried and true, that shall<br/>
cherish their memory when they are<br/>
dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We do not become securely great<br/>
by aggrandizing ourselves, but by ag-<br/>
grandizing the great and good cause<br/>
to which we may be attached. We<br/>
do not secure permanent good to others<br/>
by placing them where we cap meet<br/>
most easily their wants and secure<br/>
their immediately interests, but by<br/>
making them powerful to meet their<br/>
own wants and adequate to secure<br/>
their own interests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rulers become really great only by<br/>
serving faithfully the people they go-<br/>
vern, and so far as possible making<br/>
each subject happy and independent<br/>
in himself. Happiness or greatness<br/>
does not reside in the name but in<br/>
the character and circumstances that<br/>
make the wants of the character most<br/>
nearly met. To be a daughter of a<br/>
king might seem to be a boon. But<br/>
if to be a daughter of a king, imperial<br/>
eternal-celibacy, and eternal idleness<br/>
and seclusion, weighed in the philoso-<br/>
pher's scales, the risk would bound<br/>
aloft as a weightless bubble, the bene-<br/>
fits sacrificed in holding the rank<br/>
would sink down, down, down, with no<br/>
imaginable counterprise to tell their<br/>
value.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the light of God's word how beau-<br/>
tiful is the position that women holds<br/>
in the scale of being. A help mete<br/>
for man, taken from his side. A<br/>
true yoke fellow—united to his inte-<br/>
rests in every relation of life. To<br/>
share his every thought; his every wish,<br/>
to help carry out his every laudable<br/>
purpose—-identified in all his interests,<br/>
and rising in the scale of being as her<br/>
sworn protection, leads her on and<br/>
shields her path-way—-to whom love<br/>
makes every burden light, and truth<br/>
every care a pleasure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Man holds the destiny of woman, in<br/>
his influence to make her what he<br/>
will. If he will to bring her into her<br/>
true position and awaken in her a<br/>
character that is congenial to her ori-<br/>
ginal nature, she then from the throne<br/>
to which he elevates her, pours forth a<br/>
flood of influence that gives to man,<br/>
refinements of all he has most nobly<br/>
conceived. Let man be true to wo-<br/>
man in her girl-hood, and in her wo-<br/>
man-hood she will be his greatest<br/>
safe-guard and his wisest counselor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But what has all this to do with<br/>
the king of Siam! Much every way,<br/>
but chiefly, that the king errs more, in<br/>
the course he is taking in his own<br/>
domestic relations, than in any other<br/>
respect; and when he is dead, the in-<br/>
fluence of his present course, if not<br/>
averted while he still lives, will bring<br/>
a world of sorrow. and still prolong<br/>
the thraldom of his kingdom<br/>
Ms Recorder,—-"Some of your<br/>
readers " have been very much shock-<br/>
ed to hear you call an Alligator, or a<br/>
Crocodile a domestic animal! The<br/>
tookhaa of Siam, you say, belongs to<br/>
the same class, and indeed it looks<br/>
enough like an Alligator, differing on-<br/>
ly in size.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It inhabits our houses, it is true, but<br/>
it is a much more fit inhabitant of<br/>
the forest. If it is domestic, it is cer-<br/>
tainly not in looks. Its song is any<br/>
thing but pleasant, often startling you<br/>
from your midnight slumbers with its<br/>
shrill scream. Often times it seeks<br/>
a convenient spot near the head of<br/>
your bed, where its scream will be<br/>
the most effectual in arousing you. It<br/>
is, I think, any thing but a "harmless"<br/>
creature. True, it makes no unpro-<br/>
voked assaults upon you with open<br/>
mouth; but then, imagine a diminu-<br/>
tive Alligator tumbling down from the<br/>
ceiling upon your head! Whether or<br/>
not its intentions are malicious, its<br/>
effect upon your feelings in this un-<br/>
provoked attack, is certainly any thing<br/>
but "harmless" and pleasant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If you have a friend to dinner with<br/>
you, the tookkaa is almost certain to<br/>
take up a central position upon the<br/>
ceiling directly over your table, per-<br/>
haps attracted there by the swarm of<br/>
flies and mosquitoes buzzing in the<br/>
lamp-light, and, like yourself, trying<br/>
to get his supper, but if he makes a<br/>
wrong step and his foot-slips, he might,<br/>
to your great annoyance, supply some<br/>
of your platters with fresh meat, not<br/>
much to your liking. Now, Mr. Edi-<br/>
tor, this is a "social" quality of the<br/>
CREATURE which I should think was not<br/>
very pleasant nor agreeable. I should<br/>
rather, for my part, dispense with his<br/>
friendly and "social" approaches thus<br/>
to my table.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I know there are many in this city<br/>
who will agree with me in saying that<br/>
he is any thing but a "beautiful"<br/>
CREATURE. Beautiful! Monstrous! Hide-<br/>
ous! The only description I ever heard<br/>
of a tookhau, before I read yours, Mr.<br/>
Editor, was "what a hideous looking<br/>
thing!" But Sir, I have no objections<br/>
to you admiring his beauty. I sup-<br/>
pose the old, and oft repeated saying,<br/>
 "people will get accustomed to any<br/>
thing," accounts for it. I know that<br/>
some of those who have recently tak-<br/>
en up their residence in Bangkok<br/>
would gladly dismiss all such annoy-<br/>
ing creatures from their houses, and<br/>
send them "rapping" at your door<br/>
for admittance. {{< news/indent2 >}} A RESIDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wit in the Right Place.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the last quarterly conference of the<br/>
year they showed great anxiety as to<br/>
whom they should have for a preacher<br/>
the ensuing year. They said that the<br/>
place was a very growing one, and that<br/>
the minister settled in a church near by<br/>
was a very talented man; moreover, that<br/>
some men of position in society, among<br/>
them a physician and a young lawyer who<br/>
had lately moved into town, had been<br/>
two or three times to their church; also,<br/>
that there was talk of building two new<br/>
factories and a branch railroad to connect<br/>
the village wit's the main road, and they<br/>
closed by saying:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Brother Rice, we must have the ablest<br/>
and best man in the Conference."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh, yes," said he, "no doubt you<br/>
must, and I must try to gratify you. I<br/>
suppose you want a thousand dollar<br/>
man?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh, Brother Rice, we couldn't think<br/>
of paying that sum."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, then, you want an eight hun-<br/>
dred dollar man, do you?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why, Brother Rice, we couldn't pay<br/>
half that."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, then, a four hundred dollar<br/>
men, is it?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why, it would be hard even for us<br/>
to raise even half that."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Perhaps, brethren," he concluded,<br/>
"I can find you a two hundred dollar<br/>
man; such a one is very scarce among<br/>
us, but I will try and do the best I can<br/>
for you at that price."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They did not urge any more to have<br/>
the ablest man in the Conference; and<br/>
Mr. Rice knew that the excellent brother<br/>
that had served them for the year nearly<br/>
closed had been terribly pinched to live<br/>
among them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
— THE BRITISH fleet on the coast of<br/>
North America consists of 26 ships, with<br/>
443 guns, and manned by 5,288[?] officers<br/>
and men, two vessels mounting 21 guns<br/>
and with 440 men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
— THE TOTAL attendance in the different<br/>
departments of the College at Oberlin,<br/>
Ohio, this season is 770, of which 425<br/>
are gentlemen, and 345 are ladies. Of<br/>
the whole number, 261 are new students.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
— The success of westward bound trav-<br/>
elers over eastward bound, that passed<br/>
through Chicago during April is estimat-<br/>
ed at 10,000. This is an index to the<br/>
flow of emigration to the west this spring.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
— UNLOCKING[?] THE ROCKS. The great<br/>
cost of silver and gold arises not so much<br/>
from their scarcity in the earth as the<br/>
difficulty of extracting them from their<br/>
[...] combinations. Dr. J. C. Ayer, the<br/>
well known chemist of Massachusetts,<br/>
has cut this gordian knot. After having<br/>
merited and received the gratitude of half<br/>
mankind, by his remedies that cure their<br/>
diseases, he is now winning the other half<br/>
by opening for them an easy road to the<br/>
exhautless treasures of the hills. He<br/>
has discovered and published a chemical<br/>
process which renders, at little cost, the<br/>
hardest rocks and ores frialde like chalk,<br/>
so that the precious metals are loosed<br/>
from their containment and easily gatiner-<br/>
ed. Mines too poor to pay, many be<br/>
worked at a profit now, and the yield of<br/>
rich minerals largely increased, while the<br/>
cost of extracting the metals from the<br/>
ore is diminished. Either is a great<br/>
achievement—to enrich mankind ro cure<br/>
their diseases. But we are informed our<br/>
celebrated countryman [...] to the<br/>
latter, as his speciality and chief ambition.<br/>
—Buffalo Sentinel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
OLD AGE is a public good. Do not<br/>
feel sad because you are old. Whenever<br/>
you are wlaking, no one ever opens a<br/>
gate for you to go throught, no one ever<br/>
honors you with any kind of help, with-<br/>
out being himself the better for what he<br/>
does; for fellow-feeling with the aged<br/>
ripens the soul[?].
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BOOKS are the windows through which<br/>
the soul looks at us. A house without books<br/>
is like a room without windows. No man<br/>
has a right to bring up his children with-<br/>
out surrounding them with books, if he<br/>
has the means to buy them. It is a wrong<br/>
to his family.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONVICTION makes us rich. Repetition<br/>
makes us act. The farmer builds the<br/>
barn into our hearts, that we may see and<br/>
show our grievances; the latter leads us to<br/>
the mercy seat, where pardon may be ob-<br/>
tained.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Famine Districts.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Famine in Orissa seems to have at-<br/>
tained more frightful proportions than<br/>
even those who dissented most widely<br/>
from the views of the Bengal Government<br/>
ever anticipated would be the case. A<br/>
correspondent of the HURKARU states that<br/>
at Balasore out of 9000 persons there is a<br/>
daily average of 140 deaths; that there<br/>
are only 1700 men fit for work; and that<br/>
it is the firm belief of a member of the<br/>
committee that already half of the popu-<br/>
lation has perished. The non-distribution<br/>
of food, the reluctance to interfere with<br/>
the rules of commerce, the absurd talk<br/>
about the laws of free trade and the grand<br/>
principle of supply and demand, have re-<br/>
sulted in excluding all but a very small<br/>
portion of the community from any chance<br/>
of preserving their lives. The deaths in<br/>
Cuttack are now said to amount to the<br/>
fearful number of six thousand per week.<br/>
The HURKARU points out that the cost of<br/>
bare subsistence for husband, wife, and<br/>
one child at present rates would be Rs.<br/>
9.6-0, for one man Rs. 3.9-6 per month, and<br/>
asks where people who have nothing in<br/>
the world but a dirty and worn out rag<br/>
are to get this sum of money month by<br/>
month? Perhaps Sir Cecil Beadon can tell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reports of the most harrowing nature<br/>
continue to reach us from the famine-<br/>
stricken districts around Cuttack. Death<br/>
appears to be the solitary escape offered<br/>
to thousands, and tens of thousands.<br/>
Whilst it seemed that the lowest depths of<br/>
human endurance and suffering had been<br/>
reached, another and lower deep presents<br/>
itself. Floods, and the partial failure of<br/>
the rice crops, have destroyed to a great<br/>
extent the only ray of light which has been<br/>
permitted to touch the picture in Orissa.<br/>
Whilst rice, a few weeks back, was selling<br/>
at Khunditta for two seers the rupee, this<br/>
poor and little nutritious food is now said<br/>
to sell at Damougpur, some few miles from<br/>
Jajipore, at one shilling per pound. In<br/>
the wealthiest countries of the world,<br/>
this simple fact would tell its own story<br/>
but, applied to the poverty stricken and<br/>
inert peasantry of India, its meaning can<br/>
only be guessed at by the missionary and<br/>
district officer. Jackals and vultures grow<br/>
sleek, and an ominous silence rests upon<br/>
villages half depopulated, fields untilled,<br/>
roads marked by human bones. All the<br/>
truth will never be realized : how many<br/>
fell who might have been saved by timely<br/>
succour, or how much of the aid furnished<br/>
was never permitted to reach its destina-<br/>
tion. It is beyond doubt that considera-<br/>
ble quantities of rice, forwarded to the<br/>
distressed province by Government, have<br/>
been abstracted in transit. Bags of grain,<br/>
issued for distribution, are found material-<br/>
ly under weight. Whether this robbery of<br/>
the dying occurs before shipment; whilst<br/>
at sea, that is between False Point and<br/>
Cuttack; or at all three places, imports<br/>
nothing. The fact remains, and demands<br/>
instant attention. It is enough that we<br/>
slept when action was required, that the<br/>
Bengal Government talked and wrote re-<br/>
ports when Sir Cecil Beadon should have<br/>
been at Cuttack, without permitting our<br/>
tardy charity to miscarry, to be misappro-<br/>
priated by rogues and harpies. Even now,<br/>
at the eleventh hour, sufficient European<br/>
superintendence is wanting. A few over<br/>
taxed officers are crushed by the responsi-<br/>
bility and labour imposed upon them.<br/>
Meantime, whilst multitudes perish under<br/>
our eyes from hour to hour, the talented<br/>
and impassive official entrusted with their<br/>
care rests resignedly at Darjeeling. The<br/>
health of the Lieutenant Governor of Ben-<br/>
gal is unequal to the responsibilities im-<br/>
posed upon him. Such is the excuse.—-The<br/>
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Telegraph and the Press.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Electricity has been a serious blow to<br/>
the Indian journalist, whatever it may<br/>
have been to the public. Formerly, Euro-<br/>
pean questions were discussed at length,<br/>
ARRIATIM ET VERBATIM; affording sub-<br/>
ject for many editorials and much display<br/>
of wisdom. There was the view possible,<br/>
impossible, and probable. Each was care-<br/>
fully and artistically exhausted, and when<br/>
the truth finally reached us, and results<br/>
proved at variance with prognostication,<br/>
it became necessary to sift and explain<br/>
away the causes of the miscarriage. Clear-<br/>
ly a Calcutta writer was not to blame that<br/>
Louis Philippe could not, or would not ace,<br/>
the propriety of dying at the cannon's<br/>
mouth. On the other hand there was glo-<br/>
rification and self-worship when events<br/>
proved in accordance with any of the mul-<br/>
titudinous predictions offered. Attention<br/>
was drawn to some remarkable leader,<br/>
venerable from age in which the future<br/>
had been anticipated, by three weeks. The<br/>
best oracles were, necessarily, those which<br/>
prophesied with sufficient vagueness to<br/>
meet any contingency; and by which<br/>
peace and war, prosperity and disaster,<br/>
appeared equally imminent and remote.<br/>
Placed many thousand miles away from<br/>
the scene, uninformed of the conflicting<br/>
interests which influenced events, and lit-<br/>
tle versed in the political history of Eu-<br/>
ropean courts and statesmen, the opinions<br/>
propounded by the local press were rather<br/>
curious than profound, and somewhat re-<br/>
sembled those of home papers when treat-<br/>
ing of Indian subjects. There was about<br/>
the same amount of special knowledge,<br/>
practical experience, and breadth of view.<br/>
Still there was matter in abundance upon<br/>
which to build paragraphs and columns,<br/>
and journalists, butterfly like, disported<br/>
themselves from Dan to Beersheba; Eu-<br/>
rope and Asia were their play things, and<br/>
China yielded her riches. But whilst hea-<br/>
vy articles upon political complications in<br/>
Chilli and Vienna, penned in the back<br/>
streets of a cantonment, or about Dhur-<br/>
rumtollah, were assumed essential to the<br/>
character of high Anglo-Indian journa-<br/>
lism, it was not insisted that subscribers<br/>
should read them, and, in truth, few did.<br/>
If the public cared nothing about what<br/>
opinions the PONDICHERRY OBSERVER en-<br/>
tertained regarding a £6 franchise, the<br/>
fact rather concerned the public than the<br/>
editor. Happily, at this juncture, science<br/>
and British capital destroyed the respec-<br/>
table dulness, and India was linked by an<br/>
iron thread to the civilized world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By these new means of communication<br/>
Edinburgh has virtually become nearer to<br/>
Delhi, for purposes of correspondence,<br/>
than York was to London forty years be-<br/>
fore. Space and time have been bridged.<br/>
It costs less time to-day, to ascertain what<br/>
is passing upon the continent, than to re-<br/>
duce our surmises to type. Half a dozen<br/>
battles lost and won, were the first intima-<br/>
tion of the German War. We learn the<br/>
conclusion of a campaign in the act of<br/>
proving that hostilities are impossible, or<br/>
in predicting when they may be anticipa-<br/>
ted. Swift footed electricity outruns the<br/>
brain, and probability; sometimes itself.<br/>
The birth of a Prince is announced before<br/>
the infant is born, and longitude-—the dif-<br/>
ference of a few minutes—-becomes res-<br/>
ponsible for the anomaly. Editors and<br/>
Mrs. Gamp, are at their wits ends. Una-<br/>
ble to dive into the future, to know where<br/>
the next telegram may cast us, we reason<br/>
to small purpose. Instead of arguing<br/>
from cause to effect, it is necessary to in-<br/>
vert the operation, and crawl, crabwise,<br/>
from effect to cause. Three ill spelt words<br/>
destroy the ablest article, and the manu-<br/>
scrip passes to the waste basket, or is<br/>
pruned to suit the new position. Judi-<br/>
cious silence passes for prescience, and is<br/>
most often right. Just sufficient intelli-<br/>
gence is conveyed to establish a fact, which<br/>
cannot be explained upon any data we<br/>
possess, and which is, nevertheless, too<br/>
succinct to permit of doubt. The Indian<br/>
journalist knows too much to be altoge-<br/>
ther silent, too little to write with confi-<br/>
dence, and, like another Newton, plays<br/>
with shells upon the sea shore, whilst the<br/>
great ocean of truth lies beyond. He has<br/>
been distanced by electricity, made the<br/>
sport of the "lightning wire;" and the<br/>
public must henceforth be content to sup<br/>
upon editorial paragraphs intended to ce-<br/>
ment and connect Reuter's telegrams, in<br/>
lieu of the heavy literary fare formerly<br/>
supplied. Probably the loss will not be<br/>
very seriously felt, whatever views<br/>
Mr._______ may entertain to the con-<br/>
trary. By electricity we are enabled to<br/>
follow the course of events in Europe<br/>
with some degree of closeness, for India is<br/>
seven or eight and twenty days nearer to<br/>
the world, and their full explanation<br/>
through the columns of the home and con-<br/>
tinental press, is no longer in reaching us<br/>
than heretofore. With a weekly Bombay<br/>
Mail the delay will be decreased. Instead<br/>
of living upon anticipations—-futile and<br/>
unsatisfactory gropings after the truth,<br/>
Anglo-Indians are compelled to look back,<br/>
think back, read back, live back, in order<br/>
to comprehend events the outlines of<br/>
which have alone been permitted to reach<br/>
them. Great events arise from out the un-<br/>
known promontaries looming high above<br/>
a sea of mist and doubt, solitary and<br/>
grand, and bye and bye, and bit by bit, we<br/>
are permitted to fill up the landscape; to<br/>
tear events, beginning with the occupa-<br/>
tion of Leipsic, and terminating in fatal<br/>
Badaw, piecemeal from the electric wire,<br/>
and complete a Mosaic, which is history?<br/>
at our leisure. If the continuity of the<br/>
story has been destroyed, the gain in other<br/>
respects has been out of all proportion to<br/>
the loss. Better to see in part than not to<br/>
see at all, better to know the truth than to<br/>
guess at it, and by so much richer has<br/>
electricity made the Indian public. Nor<br/>
is the day very distant when increased<br/>
competition and communication between<br/>
the countries will render possible telegra-<br/>
phic messages as detailed and complete, as<br/>
they are now brief and often unsatisfac-<br/>
tory.—-THE FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The end of the Jamaica affair.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Eyre is not even censored, may<br/>
be to-morrow appointed Governor of<br/>
Madras or Bombay, to govern a score or<br/>
so millions of persons with dark skins,<br/>
and will in all probability receive some<br/>
acknowledgment of his zeal. The House,<br/>
it will be remembered, defends a limited<br/>
suffrage, very justly, on the ground that<br/>
it represents not only the kingdom, but<br/>
the Empire, and would angrily deny that<br/>
it changed its measure of Justice within<br/>
that Empire for any consideration of race,<br/>
creed, or colour. Consequently, if London<br/>
is placed under martial law, and Hyde<br/>
Park rioters shot in batches under sen-<br/>
tences passed by ensigns, and women<br/>
flogged by the score for slanging the po-<br/>
lice, and Whitechapel burned to the<br/>
ground because some rioters came from<br/>
thence, and Mr. Bright hanged by mock<br/>
trial for having been a "troublesome<br/>
agitator," the House will pass a resolu-<br/>
tion "deploring" those events. The mere<br/>
statement of such an absurdity is sufficient<br/>
to convict the majority, it may be even<br/>
to convince them, of the offence they un-<br/>
questionably have committed. They have<br/>
refused to do to one, and a weak, section<br/>
of Her Majesty's subjects the justice they<br/>
unquestionably would have done to an-<br/>
other and stronger one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have said little of Mr. Gordon's<br/>
case, designedly, for Mr. Eyre is on that<br/>
case to be brought to trial, and have only<br/>
to remark that the Commission reported<br/>
Mr. Gordon unjustly put to death, that<br/>
Mr. Russell Gurney in his place formally<br/>
reiterated and justified that verdict, and<br/>
that on such unjust putting to death the<br/>
House of Commons, which accepts the<br/>
Commissioner's report as final, has no com-<br/>
ment to make, while Mr. Adderley, who<br/>
calls the Commission a "judicial tribunal,"<br/>
declares its verdict unjust, and the offence<br/>
it condemns merely an "act of practical<br/>
justice." And House and Minister alike<br/>
represent that "aristocracy which has<br/>
stood for ages between the throne and<br/>
the people."—SPECTATOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Hero of the Hour.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man in the country has a right to<br/>
a prouder joy to-day than Cyrus W.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Field, whose eight years of labor in be-<br/>
half of the Atlantic Telegraph are at last<br/>
crowned with complete success. The<br/>
whole world owes him gratitude for the<br/>
untiring energy, the patience under de-<br/>
feat, the steadiness under opposition, the<br/>
faith amid difficulties with which he has<br/>
pursued his work. He is a representative<br/>
American of whom his countrymen may<br/>
be proud. All honor to the hero whose<br/>
laurels are not stained with blood, and<br/>
who has wrested from the stubborn sea<br/>
and stubborn men so signal a victory for<br/>
science and civilization.—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Needle Gun Described.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "flint needle-musket" (Zund-<br/>
nadelgewehr) has spread as much terror<br/>
to the Austrian ranks as did our gun-<br/>
boats for a year or two, among the<br/>
Southerners. This musket is breech-<br/>
loading, though not revolving. A sec-<br/>
tion of the breech, about six inches in<br/>
length, can be removed by means of a<br/>
fixture similar in principle to that by<br/>
which the bayonet is removed from the<br/>
muzzle of the Springfield musket. When<br/>
the piece has been fired the soldier<br/>
brings it down a little, and by two move-<br/>
ments of a little arm, ending in a knob,<br/>
which can be made in a second, unfixes<br/>
the section, drops the butt of the gun on<br/>
the ground, in two seconds more inserts<br/>
the cartridge in the forward end of the<br/>
section, brings up his piece, claps in the<br/>
section, and, by two movements of the<br/>
little arm, has, at the same time, fixed the<br/>
section and shoved the cartridge forward<br/>
into the muzzle. Another movement sets<br/>
back the hammer, and he is ready to fire.<br/>
The average rate of firing is about ten<br/>
times a minute, and the universal testi-<br/>
mony of the wounded Austrians is, that<br/>
they cannot fire oftener than once while<br/>
the Prussian fires five times.-—NATION.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
