---
linkTitle: 'November 1st, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 1st, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 1st'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 66
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY,</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">November 1st, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 43.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
On the Ferry.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY MRS. MARY CLEMMER AMES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}On the ferry, sailing over<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To the city, lying dim<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the mellow mist of evening<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}By the river's further rim:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On the ferry, gazing outward<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To the ocean calm and cold;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}While the blue bay dips its waters<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In the sunset's fleeting gold.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On the ferry, gazing outward,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}O thou ocean deep and wide,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every pulse is beating measure<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With the rhythm of thy tide!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Loving waves kiss warm and eager;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Motionless the great ships stand,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}While above each pendulous pennon,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Lures me with a beckoning hand.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Calm on the uneasy waters<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Leans the sunset-bars of flame,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Like the legendary ladder<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On which angels went and came.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In another summer evening,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On a little way before,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I shall reach another ferry,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Seeking swift a dimmer shore.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I shall cross a wider ferry,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Crossing to return no more,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Sailing for a fairer city,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Waiting on a lovelier shore.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Will God's sunshine beam around me,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Fusing every wave in gold?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gently will you row me over<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Charon, boatman, calm and old!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When these life-airs cease to chill me,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}When my meager day is done,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Boatman, bear me through the splendor,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Falling from the setting sun!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bear me outward to the mystery<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The Eternal will unfold,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To the unrevealed glory<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Shut within yon gates of gold.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Life may touch the soul so gently<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}We can hardly call it rough;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yet we'll all say in its closing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Our brief day's been long enough.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thus I stand with gathered garments,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Ere the deeper shadows fall;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}O, my heart! drop thy last idol,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Listening for the boatman's call.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Come! and by my spirit's sinking,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}By my shrinking fears untold,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bear me gently o'er those waters,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Charon, boatman, calm and cold.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Accusation Against Mr.
Gladstone.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My last letter was about Gladstone;<br/>
and, as at the end of it I was very far<br/>
from the woe which Voltaire pronounced<br/>
upon "the man who says all he has to<br/>
say upon any subject," this letter shall be<br/>
about Mr. Gladstone also. A very serious<br/>
accusation is being pressed against him.<br/>
All the Tory papers and all the Toryized<br/>
Whig ones are ringing the changes upon<br/>
Mr. Gladstone's "haughty bearing" in<br/>
the House, upon his "imperious spirit,"<br/>
and especially upon the alleged "irrasci-<br/>
bility of his temper;" and they constan-<br/>
tly affirm that the catastrophe to his Re-<br/>
form Bill and to his administration was<br/>
largely owing to his display of these<br/>
qualities.{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to his having been lacking in com-<br/>
mand of his temper, and in proper de-<br/>
ference to the House, since he became its<br/>
leader, I believe that a statement more<br/>
baseless it would be impossible to manu-<br/>
facture. The question becomes a very<br/>
simple one of testimony. I will not in-<br/>
vite myself into the witness-box; al-<br/>
though I could testify that, whenever I<br/>
have enjoyed the privilege of being in<br/>
the House of Commons, I have been<br/>
struck with admiration at the dignified<br/>
and graceful courtesy of Mr. Gladstone;<br/>
at the charm and fascination of his bear-<br/>
ing; at the total absence of any tinge of<br/>
arrogance in his treatment of other mem-<br/>
bers; at his unflagging attention to every<br/>
reasonable appeal, from whatever quarter<br/>
of the room; at his forbearance toward<br/>
foes who were raging for his destruction;<br/>
at his marvelous patience under insults<br/>
the most annoying and unseemly. I will<br/>
summon to the stand two witnesses of<br/>
the highest eminence and of the most<br/>
unquestionable reliability.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a speech at Lambeth, on the 22d of<br/>
June, the celebrated Thomas Hughes,<br/>
author of "Tom Brown's School Days,"<br/>
made these remarks:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Then it is said that the Liberal ma-<br/>
jority has been lost through Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone's imperiousness. I ask you to look<br/>
this matter fairly in the face. Is it a<br/>
proof of imperiousness that Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone has given up to the Opposition<br/>
every point except those which he deem-<br/>
ed absolutely material? Is that the con-<br/>
duct of a haughty and intolerant man,<br/>
who tries to put down honest opposition?<br/>
Never was there a baser calumny uttered<br/>
against a great man. [Cheers.] My ad-<br/>
miration for that noble man has been<br/>
growing all through the session, when I<br/>
saw how earnestly he battled to keep the<br/>
promises he had made. Give me the<br/>
leader who acts as if he had a work to<br/>
accomplish, as if a woe was on him if he<br/>
did not accomplish it. [Cheers.] It is a<br/>
disgrace to the House of Commons that<br/>
they don't know a great man when they<br/>
see him. [Continued cheering.] All this<br/>
session they have been like a pack of<br/>
hounds let loose on the leader of the<br/>
House of Commons."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The highly respected member for the<br/>
city of Cork, Mr. J. F. Maguire, who<br/>
must be known in America by his ad-<br/>
mirable "Biography of Father Matthew,"<br/>
has just made public a letter, from which<br/>
I take the following sentences:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And how did the people's champion<br/>
bear himself in this protracted struggle?<br/>
I watched him with singular interest in<br/>
all the varying fortunes of the campaign<br/>
—for that it was; and I must conscien-<br/>
tiously admit that I do not believe that<br/>
any statesman, having a due regard to<br/>
his own honor, could have borne himself<br/>
with more loyalty to his cause, or with a<br/>
juster deference to the legitimate wishes<br/>
of the House. From his very organiza-<br/>
tion he must be specially susceptible to<br/>
taunt, sneer, insinuation, however deli-<br/>
cate or covert it may be; and Heaven<br/>
knows these were rained on his head for<br/>
four long months; yet I do not remem-<br/>
ber a single instance in which he lost his<br/>
temper, compromised his dignity, or<br/>
transgressed the limits of that decorum<br/>
which is looked for in a minister of the<br/>
crown, human as he must be. He was<br/>
necessarily compelled at times to employ<br/>
the same weapons that were directed<br/>
against him; but he has on many occa-<br/>
sions held back his hand rather than<br/>
strike, though the enemy's armor was all<br/>
agape with rents and crevices, or though<br/>
his opponent was naked to his thrust. I<br/>
shall say nothing of his marvelous en-<br/>
durance, as night after night he was<br/>
faithfully at his post, ever on the alert,<br/>
ready at any moment to meet his op-<br/>
ponents, whatever their mode or manner<br/>
of attack; or how, when the emergency<br/>
called for a fuller display of his powers<br/>
and a bolder enunciation of the living<br/>
and essential principles of his measures,<br/>
his oratory borrowed majesty from the<br/>
immineuce of the perils, and his words<br/>
swelled like the deep notes of an organ,<br/>
or startled like the blast of a trumpet.<br/>
Let me only say that he fell with honor<br/>
—-fell, but to rise stronger than ever in<br/>
the public conviction of his honesty [and<br/>
truth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Will the London correspondent of the<br/>
New York Times accept these two little<br/>
bones, and oblige the world by picking<br/>
them?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Socrates, on one occasion, being com-<br/>
plimented for having the best possible<br/>
temper in the world, replied that he<br/>
“had the worst possible temper, with the<br/>
best possible control of it.” I do not say<br/>
that the former part of this Socratic con-<br/>
fession would exactly apply to Mr.<br/>
Gladstone, but he has shown that the<br/>
later part would. A finely strung, ex-<br/>
citable, sensitive man, in several emergen-<br/>
cies, while still in a subordinate position,<br/>
he has grown extremely angry in the<br/>
House of Commons; he has got into a<br/>
passion; and, giving the rein to his<br/>
boundless powers of sarcasm and invec-<br/>
tive, he has scourged his antagonists to<br/>
his own and their content. Upon the<br/>
death of Lord Palmerston, almost the<br/>
only doubt in the minds of Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone’s admirers was whether he could<br/>
always and infallibly command that high<br/>
and stormy spirit of his; for it would be<br/>
fatal to a leader of the House if his op-<br/>
ponents knew that, by a series of judici-<br/>
ously-contrived insults, they could throw<br/>
him off his guard. The Tories of all<br/>
shapes and grades raised the cry that he<br/>
would certainly lose his temper; and<br/>
they evidently resolved that he should.<br/>
They worried, tormented, insidiously at-<br/>
tacked him; and they have been exceed-<br/>
ingly angry because they could not make<br/>
him so. When one of their champion<br/>
brow-beaters, like Mr. Lowe, of rare<br/>
vituperative genius, has risen to conduct<br/>
an attack, a scene like this has been<br/>
usually presented: Mr. Gladstone would<br/>
quietly settle far down on the Treasury<br/>
Bench, stretch out his legs in front of<br/>
him, and there, with his feet against the<br/>
base of the table, his hands folded over<br/>
his breast, the back of his head against<br/>
the back of the bench, his pale, sad, but<br/>
resolute face upturned, his eyes closed<br/>
or gazing calmly at the lighted roof of<br/>
the chamber, he would receive the pel-<br/>
tings of the storm; and hour after hour,<br/>
as the assaults raved on, he would make<br/>
no sign of passion or resentment, nor any<br/>
movement, save occasionally when some<br/>
taunt of peculiar malignity would seem<br/>
to send a pang to his heart and a nervous<br/>
twitching for an instant across his face.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wise, affluent, and magnanimous<br/>
statesman! Hitherto renowned for<br/>
strength to do, and henceforth worthy<br/>
of the grander renown of strength to<br/>
suffer! Higher from defeat than your<br/>
enemies are from victory, advancing in<br/>
the impenetrable armor of integrity, sus-<br/>
tained by the benedictions of Heaven,<br/>
and cheered by the homage and love of<br/>
the millions who in all quarters of the<br/>
globe speak the mother-speech of Eng-<br/>
land, may your power be as great as your<br/>
beneficent purpose, and may your stately<br/>
career long continue to shed gladness on<br/>
palace and on cottage, to lighten the bur-<br/>
dens of the weary, to uplift those whom<br/>
cruel circumstance has depressed, and to<br/>
leave to the generations of mankind a<br/>
model of the highest Christian statesman-<br/>
ship!—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Southern Feeling.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As one page, or feature, of the present<br/>
historic times, it may not be altogether<br/>
uninstructive to place on record some of<br/>
the utterances, that now and then appear<br/>
in the Southern Press, concerning the<br/>
ladies who go to teach the Freedmen.<br/>
Not content with the damning crime of<br/>
keeping the negro in ignorance, making it<br/>
by statute, a penal offense, to be punished<br/>
with heavy fines and long imprisonment–-<br/>
or oftener capital, by the code and court of<br/>
Judge Lynch–-to teach a slave to read<br/>
even a single page of the Bible, when, with<br/>
some show of dreadful reason, they could<br/>
plead the necessities of their fearful system,<br/>
they now show how deeply “the iron of<br/>
Slavery has entered their own soul,” by<br/>
their fiendish malice towards those who,<br/>
at great personal sacrifice, are trying to<br/>
supply their lack of service–-to undo the<br/>
terrible mischiefs of their former wicked-<br/>
ness. With rare exceptions, our teachers<br/>
are treated by the Southern whites with<br/>
complete social ostracism. Instead of the<br/>
friendly call at their homes or recognition<br/>
in the streets, they encounter at best the<br/>
averted eye and silent contempt, if they are<br/>
spared the words of blackguardism, or that<br/>
feminine accomplishment, peculiar to<br/>
Southern gentility, of “gathering up their<br/>
skirts,” that, in passing, their dresses shall<br/>
escape the hated contact.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In rare instances have our teachers<br/>
been able to find board in white families,<br/>
for the reason, that public sentiment sets<br/>
so strongly against them, that even those,<br/>
who may be comparatively friendly them-<br/>
selves, or who would be glad to do it for<br/>
the money, are afraid. One of our mission<br/>
families in Virginia, was compelled to<br/>
forego the use of meat for weeks, because<br/>
the Freedmen was not able to furnish it,<br/>
and the whites had no meat for “nigger<br/>
teachers.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We have intimated that there are excep-<br/>
tions. There are. We trust they will in-<br/>
crease. Down in Norfolk, two of the<br/>
leading clergymen welcome those very<br/>
"school marms," the Editor so berates in<br/>
the extract below, as they do also that<br/>
Northern aid we are rendering, (thus do-<br/>
ing what they cannot do) and bestow on<br/>
one of our schools the, no doubt, merited<br/>
compliment of being the best school, white<br/>
or black, they had ever visited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the general ANIMUS of the South is<br/>
well expressed in the following extracts,<br/>
we clip from Southern papers. And it<br/>
seems to us, they clearly indicate,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. That the Freedmen's Bureau is still a<br/>
necessity;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. That, if as one of the Editors phrases<br/>
it, their "former masters" are the Freed-<br/>
men's ONLY "natural protectors," their<br/>
case is a bad one; and
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. That the North has here a work on its<br/>
hands of no mean dimensions and prob-<br/>
ably of no brief continuance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is from the leading editor-<br/>
ial in the Norfolk VIRGINIAN of July<br/>
2;
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
They are Gone or Going.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our grief knows no bounds—-our eyes<br/>
are two fountains from which rivers of<br/>
tears flow continually and refuse to "dry<br/>
up," but roll down our innocent nose with<br/>
increasing volume. We are, like Calypso,<br/>
inconsolable—-and we mourn in a spirit of<br/>
abject despair, that refuses all comfort; for<br/>
hope has died within us. The only joy of<br/>
our existence in Norfolk has deserted us.<br/>
The negro "schoolmarms" are either gone,<br/>
going, or to go, and we don't much care<br/>
which, where to, or how-—whether it be to<br/>
the more frigid regions of the northern<br/>
zone, or to a still more torrid climate; in-<br/>
deed, we may say that we care very little<br/>
what land they are borne to, so not again<br/>
to "our'n" even though it be that bourne<br/>
whence no traveler returns. Our grief at<br/>
their departure is, however, lightened<br/>
somewhat by the recollection of the fact<br/>
that we will get rid of a most abominable<br/>
nuisance; and here the theory of compensa-<br/>
tion comes in to compensate and console<br/>
us, and dry up the fountains of our tears.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our only fear is that their departure<br/>
will not be eternal, and like other birds of<br/>
prey they may return to us in season, and<br/>
again take shelter with their brood of<br/>
black-birds, under the protecting wings of<br/>
that all-gobbling, and foulest old fowls,<br/>
the well-known buzzard yclept Freedmen's<br/>
Bureau.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all seriousness, however, we congratu-<br/>
late our citizens upon a "good rid[?]ance of<br/>
bad baggage" in the reported departure of<br/>
these impudent missionaries. Of all the<br/>
insults to which the Southern people have<br/>
been subjected, this was the heaviest to<br/>
bear. It was the refinement of torture.<br/>
It did not draw our flesh off the bones as<br/>
with hot pincers; nor did it stretch our<br/>
muscles on the rack, and fill our whole<br/>
physical system with aches and pinches;<br/>
but it was the more refined torture of an<br/>
insult to our pride of manhood and our<br/>
feelings; it was heaping coals upon our<br/>
mental anguish-—to have sent among us a<br/>
lot of ignorant, narrow-minded, bigoted<br/>
fanatics, ostensibly for the purpose of pro-<br/>
pagating the gospel among the heathen,<br/>
and teaching our little negroes and big ne-<br/>
groes, and all kinds of negroes, to read the<br/>
Bible and show them the road to salvation,<br/>
just, as if we were Feejee Islanders and<br/>
worshippers of the African Fetish gods,<br/>
snakes, toads and terrapins; but whose real<br/>
object was to disorganize and demoralize<br/>
still more our peasantry and laboring<br/>
population. In this way they have done<br/>
incalculable mischief. Had they confined<br/>
themselves merely to teaching the objects<br/>
of their idolatry the rudiments of our<br/>
English education—to read, to write, and<br/>
to cypher, (which is more trouble than<br/>
they take with the children of their poor<br/>
white neighbors at home,) we might have<br/>
let their impudent assumptions pass with<br/>
the contempt of silence; but they failed to<br/>
confine themselves to these harmless ob-<br/>
jects, and at once set to work assiduously to<br/>
array the colored race against their former<br/>
masters and present natural protectors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And the people of Norfolk have submit-<br/>
ted to all of this—-to this terrible indignity,<br/>
without even a murmur. Was ever such<br/>
respect shown for women, for order for<br/>
peace, for obligations imposed by the ad-<br/>
verse fortunes of war? Would any other<br/>
people—-would the citizens of any of the<br/>
Northern States—have allowed themselves<br/>
to be so foully insulted? Had the South<br/>
dared to send missionaries among them to<br/>
teach their ignorant masses to read and to<br/>
write, and instruct them in the duties of<br/>
Christianity, their indignation, we opine,<br/>
would have been manifested in some more<br/>
striking manner than by a formal protest<br/>
in words. We care nothing for these school-<br/>
marms, nor how much knowledge may be<br/>
crammed into a little negro's head; but it<br/>
is the iron of the insult which enters grat-<br/>
ingly into our souls, and like the clanking<br/>
of Mr. Davis's chains, forces us to cry out<br/>
"Oh! the shame; oh! the shame."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We trust, now that the negro schools<br/>
have had their annual examination-—which<br/>
came off with all the adjuncts of music<br/>
and declamation, and Bureaucratic gran-<br/>
deur—-and that they are to have a summer<br/>
vacation, that we have seen, or soon shall<br/>
see the last of these impudent women, who<br/>
have done us so much harm, and that<br/>
their return to these latitudes may be post-<br/>
poned indefinitely. We have plenty of<br/>
the South and to the manor born, to make<br/>
teachers for these colored schools, and<br/>
who can instruct them aright, too, in the<br/>
duties of their station as well as in the less<br/>
important rules of English syntax and<br/>
natural philosophy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hail with satisfaction the departure<br/>
of these female disorganizers, and trust n<br/>
favoring gale will ever return them to ou<br/>
shores, and that their bureau and oth e<br/>
furniture may soon follow in their wake.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The thrill of horror at the Memphis<br/>
massacre still lingers, and we can better<br/>
appreciate what the Memphis AVALNCHB<br/>
ssys in connection therewith in the follow-<br/>
ing extract:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Another lesson has been taught the<br/>
white fanatics. It is that we want none<br/>
of their 'school-marmus' among any of our<br/>
population, white or black. It is said they<br/>
have all left in a great fright. A happy<br/>
riddance we have. They were nuisances.<br/>
Women, who could come down South to<br/>
teach negroes, are unfit for any but negro<br/>
society. The South never learnt anything<br/>
from New England. The Pharisaical reli-<br/>
gion, the morals, the 'isms' of that land of<br/>
hickory hams and wooden nutmegs have<br/>
never obtained foothold among us, never<br/>
will. These 'isms' are sprouts to be plan-<br/>
ted among us by these 'school-marms, and<br/>
the South will rejoice when they have left<br/>
us."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Per Contra.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the above we have the dark and re-<br/>
pulsive side of the picture, that, which<br/>
now "unfortunately" constitutes the too<br/>
general aspects of Southern thought and<br/>
feeling. There are however, as intimated,<br/>
other and more encouraging demonstra-<br/>
tions of returning sanity and juster views<br/>
of the situation, and what the exigencies<br/>
of the times require. The number is in-<br/>
creasing, who see the wisdom, if not the<br/>
justice, of giving their late slaves, now<br/>
that they are free, that education which<br/>
their own interests and safety require.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the following extract from secular<br/>
papers expression is given to these views<br/>
and feelings;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Charleston Daily News.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Charleston
Colored Schools.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We take great pleasure in recording the<br/>
interest everywhere manifested in behalf<br/>
of the education of the colored people.<br/>
No small credit is due for all this to the<br/>
much abused school-marmas, for the self-<br/>
denial and philanthropy which induced<br/>
them to leave their much vaunted and be-<br/>
loved New England, and visit this benight-<br/>
ed Southern land, illuminating the night<br/>
of our barbarism by the light of their con-<br/>
tinuance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It should be remembered, moreover, that<br/>
this serious step is not usually the result of<br/>
the evanescent dream of young romance.<br/>
By no means. Those who engage in this<br/>
important and laudable missionary work<br/>
generally are ladies of riper years, who<br/>
may be supposed to have well counted the<br/>
cost of the venture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Preaching to the heathen, instructing<br/>
and civilizing them, appears an innate<br/>
passion with the pious descendants of the<br/>
Pilgrims. Fortunate they to find the<br/>
PARTHEN INFIDELES brought almost to their<br/>
very doors. Here they can gratify their<br/>
holy zeal without incurring the danger of<br/>
a long sea voyage, or the disagreeable pre-<br/>
dicament of being incorporated with a<br/>
sandwich. What a pity our tropical<br/>
climate and its concomitant epidemics<br/>
make such sad inroads upon their health<br/>
and spirits; and we do not think that, in<br/>
our selfishness, we ought to insist on their<br/>
remaining here any longer than the present<br/>
month. All the meteorological signs con-<br/>
cur in predicting a sickly season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We regret the necessity of this Hegira;<br/>
for we can ill spare these Plymouth pil-<br/>
grims of progress. There are some among<br/>
us it is true, who are either so ignorant or<br/>
prejudiced, as to suppose that Southern<br/>
ladies are the equals of these accomplish-<br/>
ed Northerners. Such is not our opinion.<br/>
No Southern lady can impart that assurance<br/>
and self-confidence, which we saw crop-<br/>
ping out on all occasions among the per-<br/>
formers at the late exhibitions. We might<br/>
enumerate other differences, but want of<br/>
space compels us to bring our long school<br/>
account to an abrupt close.—AMERICAN<br/>
MISSIONARY.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Moral Courage in Every-day
Life.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to discharge a debt<br/>
while you have the money in your pocket.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to do without that<br/>
which you do not need, however much<br/>
your eyes may covet it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to speak your mind,<br/>
when it is necessary you should do so, and<br/>
to hold your tongue when it is prudent<br/>
you should do so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to speak to a "seedy"<br/>
coat, even though you are in company<br/>
with a rich one, and richly attired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to make a will and a<br/>
just one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to tell a man why you<br/>
will not lend him your money.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to "cut" the most<br/>
agreeable acquaintance you have, when<br/>
you are convinced that he lacks principle.<br/>
"A friend should bear with a friend's in-<br/>
firmities," but not with his vices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to show your respect<br/>
for honesty, in whatever guise it appears;<br/>
and your contempt for dishonest duplicity,<br/>
by whomsoever exhibited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to wear your old<br/>
clothes until you can pay for new ones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to obey your Maker,<br/>
at the risk of being ridiculed by man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to prefer comfort and<br/>
propriety to fashion, in all things.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to acknowledge your<br/>
ignorance, rather than to seek credit for<br/>
knowledge under false pretenses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Have the courage to provide entertain-<br/>
ment for your friends, within your means<br/>
—-not beyond.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
November 1st 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Presbytery of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The regular meeting of the Pres-<br/>
bytery of Siam took place, according<br/>
to the notice given in our last issue,<br/>
at the Chapel of the Presbyterian<br/>
Mission to day at 10 o'clock A. M.<br/>
There were present Rev. Messrs. Wil-<br/>
son, McGilvary, McDonald, McFar-<br/>
land, and George—-together with Rev.<br/>
Mr. Carden of the Presbyterian Mis-<br/>
sion, and Rev. W. Dean D. D. of the<br/>
Am. Baptist Mission, and Rev. D. B.<br/>
Bradley of the Amer. Miss. Association,<br/>
who were invited to sit as correspon-<br/>
ding members, and participate in all<br/>
the deliberations of the body, but were<br/>
not allowed a vote. The Rev. Dr.<br/>
House was absent on a visit to the<br/>
U. S.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to a custom in the Pres-<br/>
byterian church, the Presbytery was<br/>
opened with a sermon by the last Mod-<br/>
erator or presiding officer-—Rev. D.<br/>
McGilvary from John XIV: 30—31.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the sermon the Presbytery<br/>
was constituted by prayer, when Rev.<br/>
Mr. Wilson was chosen moderator for<br/>
the present session, and Mr. McDon-<br/>
ald temporary clerk.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the items of business of a<br/>
general interest we might specify an<br/>
interesting report read by Mr. McDon-<br/>
ald, chairman of a committee appoint-<br/>
ed at a previous meeting, on a ques-<br/>
tion that had been referred to the Pres-<br/>
bytery for its advice. It is one of<br/>
general interest in this and all coun-<br/>
tries where the system of slavery exists,<br/>
viz, what is a church session to do<br/>
in case of an application for church<br/>
membership by a slave, who is com-<br/>
pelled by his master to work, on the<br/>
Sabbath, or subject himself to punish-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report took the open ground<br/>
that there is but one course open in<br/>
such cases, that the Bible recognizes<br/>
no lowering of its claims in regard to<br/>
the 4th commandment more than the<br/>
2nd, and that in all cases, where the<br/>
commands of God and those of man<br/>
conflict, we must resolutely obey God<br/>
rather than man, and that he who is<br/>
not willing to do so even in face of<br/>
persecution, creates a probability that he<br/>
is not prepared to seek communion with<br/>
the church. It called forth a pleasant<br/>
and rather animated discussion be-<br/>
tween some of the members and es-<br/>
pecially the corresponding members<br/>
as to the extent in which a slave is<br/>
exonerated from guilt in the violation<br/>
of God's commands by the constraint<br/>
of a master.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the one hand it was maintained<br/>
that in all such cases where a slave<br/>
really and sincerely endeavors to obey<br/>
the law of God, but is hindered by<br/>
his master, he becomes merely a<br/>
mechanical tool in the hand of that<br/>
master, and the guilt rests with the<br/>
master. On the other hand it was<br/>
maintained by the majority that no<br/>
such exoneration could be claimed.<br/>
That in the subject of religion, while<br/>
the Bible teaches and enforces sub-<br/>
mission “to the powers that be”—every<br/>
man must make his election and de-<br/>
cide whether he will take God as his<br/>
sovereign and law giver or man. The<br/>
vote was then taken, and the report<br/>
unanimously adopted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Presbytery then took a recess<br/>
till 2 P. M.-—when an invitation was<br/>
given in behalf of the ladies of the<br/>
mission to all present, among whom<br/>
we were pleased to see our friend<br/>
J. M. Hood Esq. U. S. Consul, to par-<br/>
take of a hospitable tiffin at each of<br/>
the three families. We need not of<br/>
course remark that they, as ladies al-<br/>
ways do on such occasions, performed<br/>
their duty to the satisfaction of their<br/>
guests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the afternoon, according to a<br/>
standing rule, half an hour was spent<br/>
in devotional exercises. The prin-<br/>
cipal item of business besides was a<br/>
free conversation among the members<br/>
and corresponding members on the<br/>
progress of the mission work during<br/>
the year. On the whole there seems<br/>
much ground of encouragement. Some<br/>
marked progress has been made<br/>
during the year though less than we<br/>
could desire to see. Besides the reg-<br/>
ular preaching of the gospel at the<br/>
different stations and missions repre-<br/>
sented, in most of which there have<br/>
been a few accessions, we might men-<br/>
tion as an encouraging feature a board-<br/>
ing school conducted at the mission<br/>
where the Presbytery met, in which<br/>
seniors as well as religion is taught,<br/>
and some smaller schools elsewhere,<br/>
while we have endeavored, and we<br/>
hope with some degree of success, to<br/>
make both of our papers, and especially<br/>
the Siamese edition, hand-maids of<br/>
religion, and aids of the mission cause.<br/>
The Presbytery adjourned to meet<br/>
next Monday morning, when a little<br/>
remaining business will be attended to.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Island No. 5.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the beginning of the year 1823<br/>
the Missionaries had among their re-<br/>
gular pupils twenty-four princes and<br/>
princesses, there being about an equal<br/>
number of both sexes. Kapiolani and<br/>
her husband Naihe who were subse-<br/>
quently eminently efficient in planting<br/>
the gospel in southern Hawaii were<br/>
members of those classes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mission was reinforced that<br/>
year from the U. S. by 3 ordained<br/>
missionaries, 2 licensed preachers, 1<br/>
physician and 1 superintendant of se-<br/>
cular affairs, and their wives. Their<br/>
names were William Richards, Charles<br/>
S. Stewart, Artemus Bishop, Joseph<br/>
Goodrich, James Ely, Abraham Bla-<br/>
tchley, and Levi Chamberlain. King<br/>
Liholiho, welcomed them in a letter<br/>
to the Captain of the vessel in which<br/>
they came, in the following laconic<br/>
words.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Clasby:—-Love to you.<br/>
This is my communication to you.<br/>
You have done well in bringing hith-<br/>
er the now teachers. You shall pay<br/>
nothing on account of the harbor,—-<br/>
nothing at all. Grateful affection to<br/>
you. {{< news/indent2 >}} LIHOLIHO IOLANI.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Keopuolani, the king's mother, hav-<br/>
ing for months given good evidence of<br/>
being a converted woman, was receiv-<br/>
ed into the church in 1823, and was,<br/>
the first who received baptism on the<br/>
Islands. Being “a daughter of a race of<br/>
kings, wife of a king, and mother of two<br/>
kings,” she was consequently one of<br/>
the highest in honors on the islands,<br/>
and was, before her conversion, regard-<br/>
ed by the people with the greatest<br/>
veneration, so much so, that they dare<br/>
not look upon her person but from the<br/>
profoundest prostrations. But when<br/>
she became a christian, she had little<br/>
relish for such honors, and greatly dis-<br/>
tinguished herself by her amiableness<br/>
of temper, her gentleness and benevo-<br/>
lence. When in her last sickness, be-<br/>
lieving that she would not recover,<br/>
she gave a particular charge to her<br/>
friends and her people that the custom-<br/>
ary heathen superstitions should not<br/>
be practiced at her death. Her charge<br/>
was obeyed, and that was the begin-<br/>
ning of the great reform that soon<br/>
took place with regard to those abo-<br/>
minations. She died in the triumphs<br/>
of faith on the 16th of September 1823.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the autumn of this year king<br/>
Liholiho, having an ardent desire to<br/>
know more of the world, and being<br/>
exceedingly impulsive, determined that<br/>
he would embrace an opportunity<br/>
which then presented of visiting Eng-<br/>
land. He did so, and took with him<br/>
his Queen Kamamalu and two of his<br/>
chiefs. But, most unfortunately, soon<br/>
after his arrival he and all his retinue<br/>
were seized with the measles before<br/>
they had had an audience with king<br/>
George IV, and both he and his queen<br/>
died of that disease. But the two<br/>
chiefs recovered, and returned a few<br/>
months afterwards to the islands. One<br/>
of them was still alive when Dr. An-<br/>
derson visited the place in 1863, and<br/>
was then Governor of Hawaii. His<br/>
name is Kekuanaoa, and is the father<br/>
of Kamehameha IV. Princess Kaahu-<br/>
manu became regent on the death of<br/>
Liholiho, and gave her decided and<br/>
strong support to the gospel. Through<br/>
her influence, schools were established<br/>
for the people of all ages and ranks,<br/>
most of them being taught by persons<br/>
who had received their first lessons<br/>
from the missionaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kapiolani, whose name is above<br/>
mentioned, another distinguished prin-<br/>
cess, on becoming a christian, used<br/>
her great influence directly and pow-<br/>
erfully for the encouragement of the<br/>
missionary work. She made a jour-<br/>
ney on foot one hundred miles with a<br/>
numerous retinue to the volcanic cra-<br/>
ter Kilauea for the purpose of prov-<br/>
ing to the people, that the remaining<br/>
superstitions concerning the godless<br/>
Pele who was supposed to cause the<br/>
earth to quake and the crater to belch<br/>
forth red-hot lava, was all a mere hum-<br/>
bug. While near the place, she in va-<br/>
rious ways proved to her auditors that<br/>
none need dread any evil consequen-<br/>
ces from showing contempt of those<br/>
superstitions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The remains of the late king and<br/>
Queen who died in England were very<br/>
considerately sent back by the English<br/>
government to the Islands in charge of<br/>
Lord Byron in a British Frigate. A<br/>
council of the principle chiefs of the<br/>
island was held soon after the arrival<br/>
of the Frigate, which his lordship at-<br/>
tended in company with the mission-<br/>
aries. That council is said to have<br/>
taken a marked christian character,<br/>
and made a formal acknowledgement<br/>
of the authority of the christian reli-<br/>
gion. And hence that may be said to<br/>
be the first introduction of the Sand-<br/>
wich Islands into the family of Chris-<br/>
tian nations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Princess Regent, Kaahumann<br/>
was most active and thorough in a<br/>
great variety of reformatory measures<br/>
for rearing a christian government.<br/>
Kapiolani and her husband she com-<br/>
mended for their powerful aid in sup-<br/>
pressing "murder, infanticide, theft,<br/>
Sabbath deseecration, drunkenness and<br/>
licentiousness." Prince Kauikeaouli,<br/>
then aged nine years, the brother of the<br/>
deceased king, and heir apparent "was<br/>
placed under the regular instruction<br/>
of the missionaries that he might shun<br/>
the errors of his deceased brother."<br/>
In all these measures for the improve-<br/>
ment of government, as well as for<br/>
missionary instruction in general, the<br/>
Islanders were encouraged by the coun-<br/>
sils of Lord Byron.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Near the close of the year 1825,<br/>
Kaahumanu, and nine other principal<br/>
chiefs were admitted to church mem-<br/>
bership, having been propounded for it<br/>
nine months. These all ran well the<br/>
christian race, and finished their course<br/>
in the triumph of faith. Though the<br/>
Sandwich Island government was thus,<br/>
as we may say, christianized at the<br/>
beginning, and the church and state<br/>
in one sense united, yet they have ne-<br/>
ver to this day been united in the com-<br/>
mon acceptation of the term. While<br/>
the people have become a church go-<br/>
ing people, and the state a Christian<br/>
government, the two have been kept<br/>
distinct in their organizations and<br/>
duties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As early as 1826 the Islanders had<br/>
been accustomed to assemble in great<br/>
multitudes, generally in the vicinity<br/>
of some chief to hear the gospel. This<br/>
made it necessary to build large meet-<br/>
ing houses. At Kawaihae, on Hawaii<br/>
there assembled that year not less than<br/>
10,000 persons at once, to listen to<br/>
the preaching of the gospel. A meet-<br/>
ing house was built by the nation the<br/>
same year at Kailua, 180 feet long by<br/>
78 feet broad, that would seat 5000<br/>
persons. The chief rulers of the na-<br/>
tion attended its consecration, and<br/>
made addresses to the multitudes, de-<br/>
claring the purposes of the govern-<br/>
ment to follow the principles of chris-<br/>
tianity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were then schools establish-<br/>
ed in every district of the Islands,<br/>
comprising 400 teachers, and 25,000<br/>
pupils, nearly all of whom were adults.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Strange to say, there were not wan-<br/>
ting in that place and time of wonder-<br/>
ful awakening and reformation, per-<br/>
sons, among whom were Europeans,<br/>
who had the hardihood to stigmatize<br/>
the efforts of the missionaries as being<br/>
a curse to the nation. Mr. John Young<br/>
whose name was mentioned in our<br/>
first article, had then been a resident<br/>
on the islands forty years, and had<br/>
been "the confidential adviser of the<br/>
first Kamehameha, and grand father<br/>
to the queen of Kamehameha IV,"<br/>
gives the following very interesting and<br/>
credible testimony concerning the re-<br/>
formation that had been wrought. It<br/>
was written at Kawaihae the 27th of<br/>
November 1826.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Whereas it has been represented<br/>
by many persons, that the labors of<br/>
missionaries in these Islands are at-<br/>
tended with evil and disadvantage to<br/>
the people, I hereby most cheerfully<br/>
give my testimony to the contrary. I<br/>
am fully convinced that the good<br/>
which is accomplishing and already<br/>
effected is not little. The great and<br/>
radical change already made for the<br/>
better, in the manners and customs of<br/>
this people, has far surpassed my most<br/>
sanguine expectations. During the<br/>
forty years that I have resided here, I<br/>
have known thousands of defenceless<br/>
human beings cruelly massacred in<br/>
their exterminating wars. I have seen<br/>
multitudes of my fellow beings offered<br/>
in sacrifice to their idol gods. I have<br/>
seen this large island (Hawaii) once<br/>
filled with inhabitants dwindle down<br/>
to its present numbers through wars<br/>
and disease, and I am persuaded that<br/>
nothing but christianity can preserve<br/>
their total extinction. I rejoice that<br/>
true religion is taking the place of<br/>
superstition and idolatry, that good<br/>
morals are superseding the reign of<br/>
crime, and that a code of christian<br/>
laws is about to take the place of ty-<br/>
ranny and oppression. These things<br/>
are what I have longed wished for,<br/>
but have never seen till now. I thank<br/>
God that in my old age I see them,<br/>
and humbly trust I feel them too."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear that one of the<br/>
false witnesses against the Protestant<br/>
Mission on the Islands was a French-<br/>
man by the name of Rives. He had<br/>
been living sometime among the peo-<br/>
ple, and at length, secreting himself in<br/>
the ship which bore king Liholiho to<br/>
England, he secured a passage. And<br/>
having arrived, he proceeded to France<br/>
and falsely represented himself as being<br/>
the owner of large plantations on the<br/>
Islands, as having great influence with<br/>
the king of Hawaii, and as having a<br/>
great desire for the conversion of that<br/>
people to the Roman Catholic faith.<br/>
He succeeded in persuading three<br/>
French Roman Catholic priests to go<br/>
as missionaries to Hawaii, and several<br/>
laymen of the same faith to accom-<br/>
pany them as agriculturists on his pre-<br/>
tended plantations. They reached the<br/>
Island July 7th 1827.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Such was the origin of the Roman<br/>
Catholic mission to the Sandwich Is-<br/>
lands. Their arrival was annoying to<br/>
the native rulers, who regarded their<br/>
worship as a return towards their for-<br/>
mer idolatrous system, and as so far<br/>
contrary to their laws."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present king of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PHA CHAUM KLAE.
CHAPTER XI
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though a good ruler is supposed to<br/>
encourage enterprise and patronise<br/>
learning and religion, that is accom-<br/>
plished in a good government more<br/>
by protection than patronage. In pre-<br/>
senting the reign of any king there-<br/>
fore, we should look at the laws and<br/>
usages of the country to determine<br/>
the rank of the nation, the power of<br/>
its ruler, and the hopes of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the present king ascended<br/>
the throne he found usages establish-<br/>
ed, and a system of jurisprudence in<br/>
practice, which he must have perceiv-<br/>
ed exceedingly defective. But one<br/>
man, though a king, cannot upturn<br/>
long standing customs, without great<br/>
disturbance. So that often it is better<br/>
to endure the defects of a custom al-<br/>
ready in force, rather than immedi-<br/>
ately institute an entirely new usage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are free to pronounce, the old<br/>
system of punishing and detecting<br/>
crime, and collecting revenue, (which<br/>
seem to be the great works of govern-<br/>
ment, the one to protect government,<br/>
the other to pay for protecting, and to<br/>
institute such internal improvements<br/>
as shall promote the interests of the<br/>
people,) to have been so managed as to<br/>
have almost made the government a<br/>
clog, rather than a stimulus to indus-<br/>
try and progress, a fetter to keep<br/>
down rather than a plume to produce<br/>
boyant hope and enterprize.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yet we are happy to say the king<br/>
in this department, instituted an or-<br/>
der of things, which while it does not<br/>
immediately disturb old laws and old<br/>
regulations, will gradually undermine<br/>
the old and introduce a better way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king has taken the trouble to<br/>
introduce a foreign master of police<br/>
with a liberal salary, and a police force,<br/>
that had been trained in the nearest<br/>
English port Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has tried this police force for<br/>
several years, and seemingly pleased<br/>
with its operations, he is now esta-<br/>
blishing a native police on the same<br/>
model, all the officers and the police<br/>
force to be from Siamese subjects.<br/>
This is as it should be. If a country<br/>
wishes to be strong, it must be self re-<br/>
liant as fast as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yet when we say subjects, we do<br/>
not mean what may be called pure<br/>
Siamese: we mean the native born, and<br/>
those who have adopted the country<br/>
and expect always to live here, to edu-<br/>
cate and rear their children here, and<br/>
here to live. We would think it good<br/>
policy to introduce this people as fast<br/>
as possible to all the privileges and<br/>
powers of Siamese subjects. We be-<br/>
lieve the Laos, Cambodians, Cochin-<br/>
Chinese, Chinese, Malays, Peguans,<br/>
&c. &c. would make just as good sub-<br/>
jects as those in whom flow what is<br/>
called Siamese blood. This latter class<br/>
are already almost entirely a fusion<br/>
of races, and why not admit the pure<br/>
races at once and give them the pro-<br/>
tection and advantages of subjects and<br/>
make it for their interest to seek the<br/>
advancement of their adopted country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When people adopt a new country<br/>
which gives them better sources of<br/>
livelihood and improvement than their<br/>
own country, they owe it more grati-<br/>
tude, and if they adopt it, will stand<br/>
by it to the death even to the detri-<br/>
ment of their mother country. There<br/>
need be no fear they will be treacher-<br/>
ous, if they are protected and justly<br/>
promoted. I now mean of course, as<br/>
a gradual measure, with appropriate<br/>
restrictions and conditions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
America is a noble example in this<br/>
department. Scotch and Irish, Ger-<br/>
mans French and English, Spanish<br/>
Italians and Portuguese, Swedes Danes<br/>
and Russians, join hands amicably and<br/>
call themselves a great nation, greater<br/>
than all their ancestry, and on a high-<br/>
er better platform of government. We<br/>
wish the same joining of the eastern<br/>
races in Siam and the same success.<br/>
We think it possible, feasible and<br/>
desirable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad the native population<br/>
have so good a leader in the English-<br/>
man who now stands at the head of<br/>
the police force, which is to give pro-<br/>
tection to this city of multifurious ra-<br/>
ces. An official with a beam in his<br/>
eye cannot see clearly to pull the<br/>
mote from his brother's eye, or a<br/>
breaker of law be a fearless champion<br/>
for rectitude, lest some culprit should<br/>
turn upon him with “thou that sayest<br/>
a man should not steal, dost thou<br/>
steal.” Our European police master<br/>
is exemplary. His residence is neatly<br/>
and thriftily kept. His wife tidily and<br/>
tastefully keeps her house and house-<br/>
hold, and they are church-goers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such a man is doubly effective. He<br/>
acts by precept and example, and can<br/>
thus speak and act advisedly, for he<br/>
has experience. He can say come and<br/>
go with us, and we will do you good.<br/>
Leave your bad ways, adopt a true<br/>
course, and be an honest exemplary,<br/>
happy man. It is possible. It is ne-<br/>
cessary to progress and happiness.<br/>
Sin leads downward and destruction-<br/>
ward.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But while the European policeman<br/>
is well paid and exemplary, he has a<br/>
great vantage ground over the native<br/>
officials as "a terror to evil doers."<br/>
He has a good salary, and can afford<br/>
to deal justly and fearlessly. Before<br/>
the treaties with the western nations<br/>
the revenue was so meager, or rather<br/>
there was so much absorbed by royal<br/>
ty, there was little left for subordinate<br/>
officers' salaries, which were almost<br/>
nominal and hence bribery, & oppres-<br/>
sion took the place of justice and pro-<br/>
tection in departments of business.<br/>
Hence it became a usage to give small<br/>
salaries and make up the deficit by<br/>
perquisites. Judges and the whole<br/>
phalanx connected with the righting of<br/>
wrongs have become the greatest wrong<br/>
doers. They were driven by necessi-<br/>
ty to take bribes to live.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We come from a country well gov-<br/>
erned, where officials have delegated<br/>
power, and means to help them fully<br/>
meet the expense in any way which<br/>
government may arrange that shall<br/>
meet conveniently the wishes of the<br/>
officials, and officially and justly admi-<br/>
nister the government. The officials<br/>
are liberally salaried for their onerous<br/>
duties, and to receive a bribe or em-<br/>
bezzle the public revenue is a great<br/>
crime.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Protection and stimulus to every<br/>
laudable enterprize is the watchword<br/>
of government, supposed infringements<br/>
of law after a fair trial are decided up-<br/>
on by a large jury supposed to be im-<br/>
partial, and the penalties of law<br/>
promptly, efficiently and judiciously<br/>
executed, both to reform the offender,<br/>
and as an example to make the lawless<br/>
fear. When the guilt is certain, it be-<br/>
comes the duty of government to see<br/>
it though in all its bearings, punish-<br/>
ing the wrong and seeing it as far as<br/>
possible righted. Paying the cost of<br/>
trial falls entirely on the offender as<br/>
well as remunerating the injured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam at present, has little of this<br/>
efficiency. Let an illustration show<br/>
the difference. A man was caught<br/>
stealing. It was an undoubted fact<br/>
though of small amount. The owner<br/>
of the stolen property made over the<br/>
thief to proper authorities, asking for<br/>
justice. Months afterward a messen-<br/>
ger came to him from prison saying<br/>
the poor wretch was pining in prison<br/>
and chains on the brink of the grave.<br/>
What in chains still! was the exclama-<br/>
tion. Yes, was the reply. It is the<br/>
custom of the country. He will stay<br/>
till he dies if no friend comes to the<br/>
rescue. Let the poor fellow go, was<br/>
the order of the injured party, and so<br/>
he was set free perhaps to pursue his<br/>
old course for he had nothing but<br/>
chains to make him better.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We need a Howard here beyond<br/>
measure, to visit the prisons, represent<br/>
their defects, and show the working of<br/>
the present measures. The king is<br/>
the father of his subjects, he wishes<br/>
all the people to be good and happy,<br/>
and should so arrange all his measures<br/>
as to secure these results. Punish-<br/>
ment should be prompt, just, and al-<br/>
ways and every where for the good of<br/>
the whole people. It should not be<br/>
the policy to destroy but to save.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is another feature here which<br/>
is very disheartening in the party<br/>
seeking justice. In the developements<br/>
of the infringements of law, prominent<br/>
men often become implicated, and the<br/>
policy of government seems to be to<br/>
shield them and substitute a scape-<br/>
goat. If we want a country to pros-<br/>
per, justice must be done though the<br/>
sky falls. That is, justice must be<br/>
known and the penalty affixed. Af-<br/>
ter sentence is passed, pardon becomes<br/>
possible, or an amelioration adjusted.<br/>
Murder may, for example, be commuted<br/>
to imprisonment for life; or a king<br/>
may set a culprit free for sufficient rea-<br/>
sons. But law must take its course,<br/>
and sentence fall where it is due, or<br/>
law becomes a byward, and govern-<br/>
ment but sounding brass and a tinkling<br/>
symbol.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Domestic Animals.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER V.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last article under this head we<br/>
wrote of the Tookhaa. Our friend A Res-<br/>
ident intimates that it is a monstrous<br/>
perversion of language to class this<br/>
creature, being so much like a croco-<br/>
dile, and in fact belonging to the same<br/>
genns, among domestic animals. We<br/>
confess that he has a great hanndle to<br/>
his ideas, but it appears to us as much<br/>
out of proportion to the thing he<br/>
wishes to wield by it as a hanndspike<br/>
to a jack knife. With far more pro-<br/>
priety might he say that it is out-<br/>
rageous to call a dog a domestic ani-<br/>
mal because he belongs to the wolf<br/>
tribe, or that a cat must be ex-<br/>
cluded from the same category be-<br/>
cause he stands gennerically among<br/>
lions. But we are only playfully re-<br/>
plying to our correspondent in this<br/>
writing, having caught the spirit from<br/>
him. We are thankful for his artiele<br/>
as it was written in a good spirit, and<br/>
has brought out more of the nature<br/>
and characteristies of the animal<br/>
under diseussion than we had thought<br/>
of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose now to write on an-<br/>
other animal under the same general<br/>
head, which it may be thought, even<br/>
less worthy of a place among domes-<br/>
tic animals than the Tookhaa. We<br/>
refer to the crow or raven. Lexicog-<br/>
raphers seem to make some little<br/>
distinction betweon a raven and a<br/>
crow, but we confess to an inability<br/>
to discover it, and shall content our-<br/>
selves with considering the two names<br/>
as synonymous terms. To persons<br/>
born and brought up in the Western<br/>
world, especially in America, as yet<br/>
unacquainted with the crow of this<br/>
Eastern world, the idea of classing<br/>
this bird among domestic animals<br/>
must seem very strange. And we<br/>
fancy we hear them exclaiming even<br/>
now, what, call one of the wildest<br/>
and shyest birds in all creation a<br/>
domestic animal! It is absurd. Not<br/>
quite so fast gentle reader. Wait a lit-<br/>
tle and we will show you that the nature<br/>
of the crow is wonderfully changed<br/>
in this Eastern world of wonders.<br/>
And here we would frankly say, that<br/>
if it be essential to the idea of domes-<br/>
tic, that the creature to which the term is<br/>
applied should live in human dwellings,<br/>
then we can not properly denominate<br/>
our crow of Siam a fully domesticated<br/>
animal. The term is only applicable<br/>
to it in the sense of living about our<br/>
houses, frequenting our verandahs or<br/>
corridors, and occasionally, when it<br/>
gets a good opportunity, darting into<br/>
our dining room, alighting on our<br/>
table while being prepared for a meal,<br/>
and grabbing what it can most ex-<br/>
peditiously get hold of, it may be a<br/>
bit of fowl, or duck, or pork, or pota-<br/>
toe, or bread, or cake, or even a silver<br/>
spoon, or fork, if there be the smell<br/>
of food upon it. The creature is so<br/>
quick on the wing, and so expert at<br/>
dodging, that it is next to impossible<br/>
to catch it, or hit it by any thing you<br/>
fling at it in the act of thieving. And<br/>
if you attempt to shoot it while in<br/>
sight of you, it darts away the mo-<br/>
ment you begin to take aim at it.<br/>
Its nature has endowed it with a great<br/>
wariness of all pointing towards it.<br/>
When the bird comes and lights on<br/>
the verandah railing, within eight or<br/>
ten feet of your table, to have a look<br/>
at you is eating, and to see if by<br/>
hook or by crook it may not get a<br/>
bit of something to eat, and runs over<br/>
the bare [?] lessons to curry favor<br/>
with you, with even more graceful<br/>
genuflexions than the politest French-<br/>
men, you have only to raise a knife or<br/>
fork or simply the hand and point it<br/>
towards the creature, and it spring to<br/>
its wings in an instant. The bird seems<br/>
to know well that a bow and<br/>
string with an arrow attached to it, is<br/>
an instrument of death, and hence<br/>
fancies that its life is in danger when<br/>
near to it. Consequently a bow and<br/>
arrow hung up in the door way or<br/>
window opening is one of the best<br/>
Scare-crows we have. The next best<br/>
is a wing of a crow suspended by a<br/>
string, and the next a bit of black<br/>
rag or a few strings having some<br/>
slight resemblance to a net work,<br/>
stretched across your door-way, or<br/>
near any thing that you would pro-<br/>
tect against their depredations. Our<br/>
housewives are greatly annoyed by the<br/>
crows stealing away their yeast put<br/>
out to dry in the verandah, or their<br/>
dough placed in the sun to rise. A<br/>
white napkin spread over it is not<br/>
enough, for they will pull it off and<br/>
away with both your bread and<br/>
yeast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is interesting to observe the wis-<br/>
dom or canning of our crows in saving<br/>
the fragment of food which they have<br/>
over and above what they need for the<br/>
present meal. They will fly away<br/>
with it to some lonely place on the<br/>
tiled or thatched roof of another<br/>
house near by, and carefully stow it<br/>
away under some tile or leaf of attap,<br/>
keeping their eyes out continually<br/>
against observers of their own kind.<br/>
Should a crow thus engaged espy an-<br/>
other crow not in partnership with<br/>
itself looking at it, it will abandon<br/>
the place and seek a better one for its<br/>
purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Our Siamese crows become wonder-<br/>
fully intimate with our infant children.<br/>
Put your creeping baby in your ver-<br/>
amiah, or in the door way with a piece<br/>
of bread and butter, and very likely<br/>
if left alone a few minutes a crow<br/>
perched on a roof or tree near by,<br/>
watching its opportunity, will dart<br/>
down and alight first on the railing<br/>
eight or ten feet distant; and then<br/>
hopping a foot at a time un-<br/>
til within four feet, will venture to<br/>
take its stand on the floor before the<br/>
child; and then, if it sees no danger<br/>
nigh, will very genteelly step up and<br/>
take the morsel out of the hand of<br/>
the child, or even out of its lips. In-<br/>
deed our little children who are able<br/>
to walk, often become so intimate<br/>
with the crows, that they call them to<br/>
them, and the birds come and take it<br/>
out of their hands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our Siamese crows have another<br/>
habit which we never noticed in the<br/>
western world, and that is, when one<br/>
of their number has been killed by a<br/>
shot, they will come together in scores<br/>
and even hundreds, under great exci-<br/>
tement, jabbering to the top of their<br/>
voices, as if intent at all hazards to<br/>
take vengeance on the author of the<br/>
murder of their fellow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are myriads of crows that have<br/>
their homes in and about this city,<br/>
and they perform invaluable service<br/>
as scavengers of this great metropolis.<br/>
In the day time they are scattered all<br/>
about. You can scarcely look out a<br/>
moment without seeing some of them.<br/>
But as it grows dark in the evening,<br/>
they love to flock together by hun-<br/>
dreds, and take up their lodgings on<br/>
two or more trees in some temple<br/>
ground. They have one grand Ho-<br/>
tel near our dwelling. It is common<br/>
for them to have a season of the freest<br/>
jabbering on getting settled for the<br/>
night, and being very shy, the least<br/>
unusual noise in the vicinity will start<br/>
them all to their wings in wonderful<br/>
harmony, and they will fly hither and<br/>
thither about the neighborhood, every<br/>
one talking incessantly in its own<br/>
way a few minutes until they all get<br/>
back again to their roost. They are<br/>
often times disturbed in this way<br/>
many times before they are quietly<br/>
settled for the night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They make their nests in the tops<br/>
of trees about the temples and or-<br/>
chards of cocoanuts, betels, mangoes,<br/>
mangostiens, durians and other trees.<br/>
We frequently see their young ones<br/>
just beginning to take their first les-<br/>
sons in flying, tumbling down among<br/>
the bushes about our houses, the<br/>
mother crows coming after them,<br/>
greatly concerned for the welfare of<br/>
their young.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese crows in other respects are<br/>
quite like the crows we were accus-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tomed to see in our boyhood days<br/>
being of the same size, quite as<br/>
black and tidy, though they feed<br/>
much more on carrion than their broth-<br/>
ers in the western world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR,-—In conversation with<br/>
an acquaintance a few days ago upon<br/>
the subject of total abstinence from all<br/>
intoxicating liquors, he quoted the oft<br/>
perverted passage where the Apostle<br/>
Paul advises Timothy, to "drink no lon-<br/>
ger water, but use a little wine for thy<br/>
stomach's sake and thine often infirmi-<br/>
ties," in support of moderate drink-<br/>
ing. This same passage is used by a<br/>
vast number in support of the drink-<br/>
ing usages of the present day; but the<br/>
true meaning of it is either unknown<br/>
to them, or else they willfully mis-<br/>
apply the whole passage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What was Timothy? Was he a<br/>
moderate drinker, or a total abstainer?<br/>
"Drink no longer water, but use a little<br/>
wine for thy stomach's sake" is Paul's<br/>
advice, thereby proving clearly that<br/>
Timothy was in the habit of drinking<br/>
water, and water only. Of what use<br/>
would it have been, supposing that<br/>
Timothy was a moderate drinker, for<br/>
Paul to have told him to "use a little<br/>
wine," when he was habitually using it?<br/>
The advice which Paul gave to Timo-<br/>
thy was perfectly appropriate to the<br/>
total abstainer, but to be given to a<br/>
moderate drinker it was entirely mis-<br/>
placed. I therefore conclude that Timo-<br/>
thy was a total abstainer in the strict-<br/>
est sense of the term. Paul's advice<br/>
to Timothy was to "use a little wine"<br/>
as medicine "for his stomach's sake<br/>
and his often infirmities" but I cannot<br/>
find one word that tells me that he<br/>
followed the advice, and even if he<br/>
did, that would not prove him to have<br/>
been a moderate drinker.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Does the moderate drinker know<br/>
that he is in danger of becoming a<br/>
drunkard? No man at the outset ever<br/>
intends to let himself sink so low in<br/>
the scale of being. He thinks that his<br/>
resolution is strong enough, and that<br/>
he is perfectly able to withstand all<br/>
the seductive influences of the intoxi-<br/>
cating cup. But once entered upon<br/>
the slippery path, he finds himself<br/>
quite powerless, and is carried onward<br/>
by the fatal current until he finds<br/>
himself sunk beneath the beast that<br/>
perishes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The prince of this world,” has found<br/>
strong drink to be a most fruitful in-<br/>
strument in attaining his ends with<br/>
men when all his other arts are of<br/>
no avail; and through its all prevail-<br/>
ing power, he has reaped an abundant<br/>
harvest of souls for perdition. Strong<br/>
drink has proved itself to be man’s<br/>
greatest enemy, yet strange to say,<br/>
men are daily sacrificing health, wealth,<br/>
and happiness to indulge in it. The<br/>
majority of all classes of men, seem to<br/>
think that there is no true pleasure in<br/>
the absence of the wine cup. It is<br/>
fashionable to use it, and as a fashion<br/>
and a custom it draws thousands to its<br/>
shrine. But O the fearful end to<br/>
which it surely leads!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Slowly, but surely the demon alco-<br/>
hol gains upon its victim, until the<br/>
moderate drinker becomes the habi-<br/>
tual drunkard, and then what a sad<br/>
spectacle is he to look upon! See his<br/>
sunken blood-shot eyes, his withered<br/>
hands, his tottering gait. The very<br/>
children in the streets are laughing at<br/>
his bloated visage and haggard appear-<br/>
ance. He breathes God's pure air and<br/>
receives unnumbered blessings from<br/>
His bounteous hand, but no grateful<br/>
emotion fills his breast. He is fretful<br/>
and discontented with his lot in life,<br/>
and with every thing around him. I<br/>
ask, is there any thing in God's crea-<br/>
tion that presents so degrading an ap-<br/>
pearance as a drunken man? No, there<br/>
is not; for he degrades himself below<br/>
the level of the brute. He is lost to vir-<br/>
tue, his character is blasted and all his<br/>
prospects for this life are ruined; and<br/>
if he ever looks forward to the eternal<br/>
world, he sees the sentence recorded,<br/>
"drunkards shall not inherit the king-<br/>
dom of heaven," and sinks in despair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But is there no remedy to save the<br/>
moderate drinker from becoming the<br/>
habitual drunkard, and of avoiding<br/>
the drunkard's fearful doom? There is<br/>
but one sure remedy, and that is ban-<br/>
ish forever the intoxicating cup from<br/>
him. "Touch not, taste not, handle<br/>
not," is the only safe ground upon<br/>
which the moderate drinker can hope<br/>
to stand secure, and successfully resist<br/>
the demon alcohol.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Would that every one of whatever<br/>
name or nation they may be, protes-<br/>
tant or papist, missionary or layman<br/>
in this benighted land, had the moral<br/>
courage to adopt, and the energy to<br/>
carry out the resolution of the Rev.<br/>
Dr. Scudder. "I would not allow a<br/>
heathen to see me take a glass of wine<br/>
for a kingdom." {{< news/indent4 >}} G.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty is expected to return<br/>
to-morrow or next day and commence<br/>
his annual pompous visitations of the<br/>
temples.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since His Majesty the king left for<br/>
Pitsanuloke, His Excellency Chow<br/>
Phys Kalanome, the Prime Minister<br/>
has held a court, as we learn, every<br/>
evening at his palace in the place of<br/>
the king, and that because there was<br/>
but little government business to at-<br/>
tend to, he has arranged to amuse and<br/>
please his courtiers every evening by<br/>
Siamese theatrials called lakawn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Siamese Majesty's Gun boat<br/>
Sherry Wine, commanded by Koon<br/>
Kam Haang—-Comdet, sailed yester-<br/>
day for Cochin-China to take home<br/>
two Cochin-Chinese subjects, who had<br/>
several months since been taken from<br/>
a wreck of a Cochin-Chinese vessel<br/>
near P’ooteinat. This vessel was bring-<br/>
ing homeward several Siamese subjects<br/>
who had escaped from a wreck at<br/>
Hainan last year. P’ooteinat is a Siam-<br/>
ese port, if we mistake not, on the eas-<br/>
tern coast of the gulf not far from<br/>
Campoot. It is refreshing to our hopes<br/>
for these eastern heathen nations, to<br/>
notice in this, as well as in many other<br/>
respects, a growing conformity to<br/>
wholesome usages in Christian nations.<br/>
Especially is it gratifying to see Siam<br/>
and Cochin-China, so long the bitterest<br/>
enemies, now brethren seeking to<br/>
please each other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Sherry Wine<br/>
will, on returning from her destination,<br/>
cruize a while in the gulf.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very glad to learn that the<br/>
Siamese government have at length<br/>
employed a gentleman of Dutch na-<br/>
tionality born in Java, but educated<br/>
in Europe to serve them as civil En-<br/>
gineer. He is now in town, having<br/>
arrived from Singapore on the 27th ulto.<br/>
with two assistants as passengers on<br/>
board the Siamese Barque Hera,<br/>
Captain Buckholdt. It appears that<br/>
the government has especially in view<br/>
by his services a survey of the River<br/>
Mekong, independent of course of<br/>
the survey which the French have<br/>
undertaken, but no further, probably,<br/>
than where the river is in Siamese<br/>
territory. We hope he will be em-<br/>
ployed for a month or two at least in<br/>
surveying for a street on the western<br/>
side of this river and in making seve-<br/>
ral inviting openings from the river<br/>
by land to the new street called<br/>
Charon Kroong. We wish the gov-<br/>
ernment every success in this noble<br/>
enterprise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Viceroy of<br/>
Egypt has come out against polyga-<br/>
my and abolished it so far as regards<br/>
his own family. This is a great and<br/>
grand stride in the way of moral im-<br/>
provement in Egypt where the chief<br/>
rulers have so long made it a high aim<br/>
of earthly glory to have princely har-<br/>
em.s. We trust that this illustrious<br/>
example will soon lead on to a great<br/>
reformation in that land which has for<br/>
hundreds of ages been cursed by poly-<br/>
gamy. Would that His Majesty the<br/>
king of Siam might see the great good<br/>
he would do, and the great glory he<br/>
would acquire by abolishing polyga-<br/>
my in his family! The harems of the<br/>
kings of Siam have from time imme-<br/>
morial made the crime honorable for<br/>
all, and all have consequently follow-<br/>
ed it to the utmost extent of their<br/>
ability; and it is now a terrible curse<br/>
in the land—-a vampire sucking out the<br/>
life blood of public morals. Oh that<br/>
the king would see and feel it! Then<br/>
would he come out against it by his<br/>
own example at least, and strike a<br/>
death blow to the curse. All his prin-<br/>
ces and rulers would honor him for it,<br/>
and many, if not all, would quickly<br/>
follow such an illustrious example,<br/>
and Siam would consequently take<br/>
immense strides towards high civiliza-<br/>
tion and honor. In this matter, as well<br/>
as in regard to religion, the king of<br/>
Siam has the most fearful responsibil-<br/>
ities resting upon him, and he will<br/>
sooner or later have to give an account<br/>
of them to the Judge of all the earth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. DANIEL McGILVARY and fam-<br/>
ily arrived here from Petchaburee on<br/>
the 31st ulto. having bade farewell to<br/>
their "sweet home" in that Diamond<br/>
City with the view to seek a new one<br/>
at Cheangmai. They intend to leave<br/>
this city for that Laos capital a little<br/>
before, or soon after next Christmas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next monthly concert will, as<br/>
usual, be held at the house of Rev.<br/>
Wm. Dean D. D. next Monday the<br/>
5th inst at 4, P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that the three<br/>
steam rice mills which have been run-<br/>
ning almost incessantly for many<br/>
months, have turned out on an average<br/>
about 4500 piculs of rice daily, equal<br/>
to 135,000 per month. Now about<br/>
an average result of native mills, we<br/>
judge, is 25 piculs daily. Hence<br/>
these three mills are equal in power<br/>
to 180 hand mills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new Mill of Messrs R. S. Scott &<br/>
Co. was expected to begin operations<br/>
last Monday, but has, as we learn, been<br/>
hindered again by some little changes<br/>
which needed to be made. It will in<br/>
all probability soon be, running and<br/>
will increase the Steam force in rice<br/>
hulling by at least 1500 piculs per day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We also learn, that still another<br/>
steam mill of smaller power is in the<br/>
course of erection below the Ain. Rice<br/>
Mill on the same side of the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain S. J. B. Ames, commis-<br/>
sioner of the police, and his family<br/>
together with Rev. S. J. Smith and<br/>
family left on the 27th ulto. for a trip<br/>
to the Anghin Sanitarium, not as in-<br/>
valids, however, but in quest of a little<br/>
recreation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is said that very little paddy has<br/>
been coming into market the last<br/>
six days. It surely cannot be on ac-<br/>
count of any scarcity of the article in<br/>
the country. It may be attributed<br/>
in part to the king's trip to Pitsa-<br/>
nuloke, which will naturally induce the<br/>
paddy owners in that section to have<br/>
a week of holidays, so that they can<br/>
have a good look at their sovereign.<br/>
And moreover this is the regular<br/>
holiday season for all the people,<br/>
when all classes must be expected to<br/>
spend a large part of their time in mak-<br/>
ing presents to their priests by much<br/>
parading on land and on water, boat-<br/>
racing, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Shipping is beginning to arrive fast.<br/>
During the past week we have had no<br/>
less than 16 arrivals, the greater part<br/>
of them foreign vessels. From this<br/>
onward, we may expect a great in-<br/>
crease of shipping to take the incom-<br/>
ing rice to ports in China and else-<br/>
where. We believe that there will<br/>
be employ for a great number of<br/>
vessels in Bangkok this season, the<br/>
harvest by the present appearance of<br/>
the paddy fields promising to be an<br/>
abundant one.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS is to inform the Public that<br/>
the Notice which appeared in<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder, of the 10th<br/>
and 18th October, stating that "NANG<br/>
IN" called by CHONG LEONG,-—"JEN-<br/>
NIE", was by the influence of my wife<br/>
Mr LAI enticed from his House;"—-<br/>
was nothing less than Calamny, and<br/>
for which false statement I sued<br/>
CHONG LEONG, the Author of the said<br/>
Notice, for $ 200 (dollars) damages.<br/>
On the 29th October the case came on<br/>
for Trial before Her Britannic Ma-<br/>
jesty's Consul, and after the case had<br/>
been clearly proved the Consul gave<br/>
judgment for $ 100 (dollars) damages,<br/>
together with permission to insert a<br/>
Notice contradicting the one inserted<br/>
by CHONG LEONG, the Chinese Baker.<br/>
Established on the New Street.<br/>
Charon Kroong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, Oct. 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS.
French Baker
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The plumage of the lark is not its song.<br/>
Look out for short doing and long<br/>
praying.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The apostles' tents were not built o<br/>
MARBLE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A COMPROMISE with sin is a SURRENDER<br/>
to the devil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who pretends to reason with the<br/>
DEAD is dead to reason.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An impenitent sinner has no more<br/>
RIGHT to sin than a SAINT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The "Lying Wonders."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DUBLIN, June 23, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no country in the world, in<br/>
which that portion of the prophecy re-<br/>
garding "The Man of Sin" which says<br/>
"whom the Lord will consume by the<br/>
breath of his mouth," (that is waste away<br/>
gradually by the preaching of his gos-<br/>
pel,) is more strikingly fulfilled at the<br/>
present day than in Italy. A few years<br/>
ago, it was impossible for a few persons<br/>
to meet for prayer, and the reading of<br/>
the Scriptures, without persecution. Now,<br/>
the Gospel can be preached, from the<br/>
Adriatic to the Mediterranean, without<br/>
hindrance; and congregations meet, and<br/>
churches are being erected throughout<br/>
the Peninsula; but, the following, which<br/>
needs no comment, will show that the<br/>
Apostacy will continue the means by<br/>
which it was established, till "destroyed<br/>
by by the brightness of the Lord's com-<br/>
ing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE VIRGIN MARY SAVING A MURDERER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Rome correspondent of the PALL<br/>
MALL GAZETTE gives the following details<br/>
of another attempt to impose upon the<br/>
credulity of the priest-ridden Romans.<br/>
The facts will best speak for themselves,<br/>
and but one feeling can be entertained<br/>
towards the murderer—that of regret<br/>
that so blood-stained a monster should<br/>
under any circumstances escape the just<br/>
penalty of his deeds :—"From an authen-<br/>
tic narrative we learn that Felix and An-<br/>
tonio di Guiseppe, or Ventura, brothers,<br/>
originally of Capitignano, in the Neapo-<br/>
litan provinces, were tainted with every<br/>
crime. By turns brigands on the high-<br/>
way and adroit sharpers in the towns,<br/>
they followed their vocation in every part<br/>
of the Pontifical territory, committing<br/>
felonies without number. Finally they<br/>
were both arrested, and were tried and<br/>
condemned to death by the Supreme<br/>
Tribunal of the Council. The pope re-<br/>
mitted the capital sentence on Felix, the<br/>
least guilty, commuting his punishment<br/>
to hard labor for life. It was impossible<br/>
to extend the same clemency to Antonio<br/>
di Guiseppe. He was accused of eleven<br/>
murders, committed in twenty-three years;<br/>
he confessed to five. He had cut off the<br/>
breasts of a young girl; and, more dread-<br/>
ful still, he was suspected of having as-<br/>
sassinated his own mother. The sentence<br/>
was that he should be beheaded at Brac-<br/>
ciano, the scene of his latest crime—the<br/>
murder of Pietro P.alini, a herdsman.<br/>
In the prison of the town, Antonio began to<br/>
evince great contrition, confessed to the<br/>
priest, and devoted himself to religious<br/>
duties, celebrating especially every day in<br/>
his dungeon the service of the "month<br/>
of Mary," in honor of the Holy Virgin.<br/>
On the eve of the day appointed for his<br/>
execution, he informed his confessor, with<br/>
an air of profound conviction, that the<br/>
Madonna had appeared to him and an-<br/>
nounced that she accepted his repentance,<br/>
and that he should not die on the scaffold,<br/>
but live to expiate his crimes, and be-<br/>
come one of her servants. This statement<br/>
he repeated when the officers came to<br/>
read his condemnation to him, at the<br/>
same time declaring that he richly deserved<br/>
his sentence, to which he listened without<br/>
the least discomposure. He asked per-<br/>
mission to walk to the scaffold barefoot;<br/>
and on his way thither, and even as he<br/>
mounted to the platform, he reiterated<br/>
his conviction that he should not be ex-<br/>
ecuted. He made the same statement to<br/>
the assembled crowd, asking their par-<br/>
don for his crime, but adding that he<br/>
would not bid them adieu. The people<br/>
listened in silence, thinking him mad,<br/>
and they were confirmed in this opinion<br/>
by the composed manner in which he<br/>
knelt down and offered his neck to the<br/>
axe. The executioner seized the handle<br/>
of the guillotine, which had been tried in<br/>
the night, and found to act effectively.<br/>
The cleaver, loaded with enormous<br/>
weights, now descended, but, wonderful<br/>
to relate, it stopped abruptly by two<br/>
fingers' length from the neck of the male-<br/>
factor. The executioner, resolute in his<br/>
duty, reset the apparatus; again the blade<br/>
fell, but it was again arrested at the same<br/>
point as by an invisible hand. Meanwhile<br/>
the spectators became excited beyond<br/>
control, and shouted "Pardon! pardon!"<br/>
while many leaped on the scaffold and<br/>
released the culprit by force. A courier<br/>
was dispatched to obtain his pardon of<br/>
the Pope, and it is confidently stated that<br/>
the Minister of the Interior has ordered<br/>
an inquiry as a step in this direction. The<br/>
miracle has, in the interim, made such<br/>
rapid progress as an article of faith, that<br/>
it has been recognized by the popular<br/>
poets, and this morning they were sing-<br/>
ing a recital of it at the corners of the<br/>
streets, and exhibiting in illustration pic-<br/>
tures coarsely daubed on linen, which<br/>
represented Antonio receiving a visit from<br/>
the Madonna in his dungeon, and then<br/>
his miraculous deliverance on the scaffold.<br/>
Such is the incident which now absorbs<br/>
the attention of Rome, and which has<br/>
been adroitly planned to catch the popular<br/>
fancy, to raise the courage of the brig-<br/>
ands, who behold one of their number<br/>
specially protected by the Madonna, and,<br/>
finally, to fill the coffers of the Govern-<br/>
ment.-—N. Y. OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Religion in Business.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW says:—-<br/>
“The pressing need of our faith is not<br/>
simply faithful evangelists to proclaim its<br/>
doctrines, but legions of men consecrat-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing their worldly vocations, witnessing to<br/>
that truth on which much skepticism<br/>
prevails, that Christianity, so received as<br/>
to become an integral part of a man, is<br/>
omnipotent to keep him from the evil,<br/>
not by taking him out of the world, but<br/>
by making him victorious over it. He is<br/>
a most worthy disciple of Christ who, like<br/>
Palissy, or Buxton, or Budgett, or Per-<br/>
thes, exhibits religion as 'the right use<br/>
of a man's whole self'—as the one thing<br/>
which gives dignity and nobility to what<br/>
is in itself sordid and earthly—as the<br/>
mainspring of earnest and successful stri-<br/>
vings after loftier ends and a purer life—<br/>
as the power outside of and within man,<br/>
which, lifting up conduct in the individual,<br/>
raises the community—and not as a state<br/>
of mind mystical, and in active life unat-<br/>
tainable, high up among things intangible,<br/>
separated from contact with work-a-day<br/>
life, appropriate to Sabbath days and<br/>
special death-beds. Every man who is<br/>
'diligent in business, serving the Lord,'<br/>
is a sermon brimful of the energies of<br/>
life and truth, a witness to the compre-<br/>
hensiveness and adaptability of Christ's<br/>
religion, a preacher of righteousness in<br/>
scenes where none can preach so effec-<br/>
tively or so well."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Anecdote of Whitefield.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
George Whitefield stopped for several<br/>
days at the house of a general, at Provi-<br/>
dence, R. I. The general, his wife, his<br/>
son, and three daughters were serious but<br/>
not decidedly religious. Whitefield de-<br/>
parted from his usual custom, which was<br/>
to address the residents, in the house where<br/>
he staid, individually, concerning the wel-<br/>
fare of their souls. The last evening<br/>
came, and the late night he was to spend<br/>
there. He retired to rest; but the Spirit<br/>
of God came to him in the night, saying,<br/>
"O man of God! if these people perish,<br/>
their blood be on thy head." He listen-<br/>
ed; but the flesh said, "Do not speak to<br/>
these people; they are so good and kind,<br/>
that you could not say a harsh thing to<br/>
them." He rose and prayed. The sweat<br/>
ran down his brow. He was in fear and<br/>
anxiety. At last, a happy thought struck<br/>
him. He took his diamond ring from his<br/>
finger, went up to the window, and wrote<br/>
these words upon the glass—"One thing<br/>
thou lackest." He could not summon<br/>
courage to say a word to the inmates, but<br/>
went his way. No sooner was he gone,<br/>
than the general, who had a great vener-<br/>
ation for him, went into the room he had<br/>
occupied; and the first thing that struck<br/>
his attention was the sentence upon the<br/>
window, "One thing thou lackest." That<br/>
was exactly his case. The Spirit of God<br/>
blessed it to his heart.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEECHER OF BROOKLYN.—The largest<br/>
income of any minister in America is<br/>
probably that of Henry Ward Beecher, a<br/>
man of exuberant vitality, uncommon<br/>
sense, lively fancy, and ever ready wit,<br/>
and the most perfect type of American<br/>
independency. His congregation pay him<br/>
an annual salary of seven thousand dol-<br/>
lars—last year even over twelve thousand<br/>
dollars, and they may well do this, for<br/>
it is only about one-third of the income<br/>
from the pew rents, which are annually<br/>
sold at auction and sought for by thou-<br/>
sands eager to hear the extraordinary<br/>
orator, who, either as preacher or lecturer<br/>
on popular topics of the day, political,<br/>
moral, and religious, can gather the largest<br/>
audiences in the United States, and who,<br/>
though never rising above the popular<br/>
horizon, can clothe the feelings and ex-<br/>
periences of every day life with uncom-<br/>
mon freshness and interest. The resources<br/>
of his genius seem to be inexhaustible,<br/>
and his mind enjoys a perpetual spring.<br/>
Though he never quotes poetry, he is<br/>
full of poetry, and passionately fond of<br/>
flowers and of children. Though break-<br/>
ing through all the traditional notions<br/>
of clerical propriety, and turning the<br/>
pulpit into a rostrum, he interests thou-<br/>
sands of intelligent young men in vital<br/>
religion. He is a truly American pheno-<br/>
menon, which could only grow on Yankee<br/>
soil; yet I do not wonder that the "Life<br/>
Thoughts" from his sermons have, even<br/>
in Germany, found many admirers. I<br/>
only wish the whole man could be trans-<br/>
lated and multiplied into German and<br/>
French, to rouse the indifferent masses<br/>
of large cities to a sense of religion, as<br/>
the deepest and highest concern of life.<br/>
—REV. DR. SCHAFF.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Admirably Illustrated.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are now multitudes of inquirers<br/>
who need to be dealt with as Mr. Patrick,<br/>
of Scotland, dealt with a women who had<br/>
been long anxious, but seemed to obtain<br/>
no relief.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Placing himself beside her and look-<br/>
ing steadily in her face, he said:”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Do you believe the Bible?””
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I do,” she replied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Can you tell me who made the<br/>
world?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She smiled a little contemptuously, and<br/>
after a pause said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“It was God.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To which he immediately replied,<br/>
“How d’ye ken? Were ye there to see?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She seemed surprised, perceiving that<br/>
there was evidently more meant by the<br/>
question than she had supposed, and then<br/>
remarked:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“No, I was not there, but the word of<br/>
God says that he made it.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Ah, well, ye believe a’ the Bible says,<br/>
d’ye?”<br/>
She said, "Yes."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Ah, well we'll see. "This is my be-<br/>
loved Son, in whom I am well pleased;<br/>
hear ye him." Who says that ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The Father."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Weel, will ye do as the Father bids<br/>
ye? He commands ye to hear the Son."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To this she assented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Weel, then, what does the Son say?<br/>
"Him that cometh unto Me I will in no<br/>
wise cast out." "Come unto me, and I<br/>
will give you rest." To the woman in the<br/>
gospel he said, "Daughter, thy sins, which<br/>
are many, are forgiven thee;" and will<br/>
he not say the same to you? Is he not<br/>
saying it even the now? Ye dinna believe<br/>
that; ye dinna believe him. I tell ye, ye<br/>
dinna believe a' the Bible."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She instantly saw the shame and sin of<br/>
not trusting in a promising, present Re-<br/>
deemer, and instantly ventured on His<br/>
mercy and found the peace she sought.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
LIFE.—-As incessantly as the river flows<br/>
toward the ocean, does time flow towards<br/>
eternity; as fast as a bark glides along<br/>
with the stream, does man float with the<br/>
stream of time until emerging into eterni-<br/>
ty. Time is the perishing part of duration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NEVER.—-Esteem any man, or thyself,<br/>
the more for money, nor think the meaner<br/>
of thyself, or another, for the want of it;<br/>
virtue being the just reason of respecting,<br/>
and the want of it slighting any one. A<br/>
man, like a watch, is to be valued for his<br/>
goings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GOOD AND EVIL.—-The knot of our life<br/>
is of a mingled yarn—-good and evil to-<br/>
gether; our virtues would be proud if our<br/>
faults whipped them not, and our crimes<br/>
would despair, if they were not cherished<br/>
by our virtues.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We often make life unhappy by wish-<br/>
ing things to have turned otherwise than<br/>
they do, merely because that is possible<br/>
to the imagination which is impossible to<br/>
fact.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
