---
linkTitle: 'April 12nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 12nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 12nd'
date: 2025-12-03T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 37
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, April 12th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 14.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Seizure of another coolie
ship.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hongkong, a Bordeaux coolie<br/>
ship, left Whampoa for Havanna a<br/>
few days ago, and has been seized by<br/>
the emigrants. The incidents of the<br/>
Pride of the Ganges case, seem to<br/>
have been closely imitated. The Cap-<br/>
tain has been murdered, and seven of<br/>
the crew are still in the hands of the<br/>
Chinese. The news of the seizure<br/>
was brought to the French consulate<br/>
yesterday, by the French vice consul<br/>
of Macao, to which port ten men of<br/>
the Hongkong's crew, who succeeded<br/>
in making their escape, proceeded in<br/>
one of the ship's boats. They arrived<br/>
at two o'clock on Thursday afternoon,<br/>
and reported the details of the mutiny.<br/>
The ship left the river a few days<br/>
ago with 260 coolies on board, under<br/>
the command of Captain DUVAL. Al-<br/>
though nothing occurred which raised<br/>
any suspicion of the intention of the<br/>
emigrants, they suddenly rose on the<br/>
afternoon of Wednesday. The Cap-<br/>
tain was killed at once by a blow with<br/>
a hatchet, and the crew fled for pro-<br/>
tection to the cabin where they de-<br/>
fended themselves as long as their<br/>
ammunition lasted. At last the Chin-<br/>
ese by pretending to surrender, induc-<br/>
ed them to come out of their retreat.<br/>
The coolies profited by this opportu-<br/>
nity to possess themselves of weapons,<br/>
and the fight continued. Seeing that<br/>
they were overpowered, those of the<br/>
crew, who were able, succeeded in<br/>
launching one of the boats and escap-<br/>
ed. The seven others who were all<br/>
more or less wounded, remain in the<br/>
hands of the Chinese. Amongst them<br/>
are the first and second mates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Governor of Macao, to whom<br/>
the French vice-consul at once appli-<br/>
ed, had no gun-boat at his disposal to<br/>
send in search of the mutineers, but<br/>
promised to furnish military assistance<br/>
if a steamer could be obtained by<br/>
other means. This however could<br/>
not be done, and yesterday morning<br/>
the vice-consul came over in the<br/>
White Cloud, and laid the whole case<br/>
before M. du CUESNZ. He of course<br/>
immediately visited Admiral KING,<br/>
and obtained a promise that a gun-<br/>
boat should be dispatched as soon as<br/>
possible in pursuit of the captured<br/>
ship.-—O. Trade Report Mar. 1st.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Railway for Manila.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whether we shall ever have Rail-<br/>
ways in China is a problem to be sol-<br/>
ved by time. The "farthest East"<br/>
is not, however, to be left entirely<br/>
without this great result of Western<br/>
civilisation. We are to have a Rail-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
way in Manila. The services of an<br/>
English Engineer have been engaged<br/>
and he is now prosecuting his surveys.<br/>
The local government are rendering<br/>
every assistance and support, and it<br/>
is hoped that in about three months<br/>
time, all plans, specifications, statistics,<br/>
concessions, &c., will be prepared.<br/>
The line is to run Eastward from<br/>
Manila to the Pacific, but the con-<br/>
struction will be divided into short<br/>
stages, with a view of testing the<br/>
profitable nature of the undertaking;<br/>
a fresh issue of shares being made<br/>
for every stage or division. The first<br/>
stage will extend from Manila to Ta-<br/>
gig, a port on the lake of Bay, at pre-<br/>
sent the anchorage of the Cascos from<br/>
all parts of the Province, and when<br/>
cargoes are shipped into canoes for<br/>
Manila. It is estimated that this stage<br/>
will pay well, indeed there is no rea-<br/>
son to doubt the soundness, practica-<br/>
bility, and commercial safety of the<br/>
whole scheme, but the first stage will<br/>
probably be found the most profitable.<br/>
As it is proposed to also a limited<br/>
number of shares for absorption in<br/>
China we have been at some pains to<br/>
ascertain the general grounds upon<br/>
which the speculation has been intr[o]-<br/>
duced and upon which the hopes of<br/>
its successful issues are founded, and,<br/>
without committing ourselves to any<br/>
recommendation on the subject, we<br/>
will place before our readers the re-<br/>
sult of those enquiries. It is simply<br/>
that we have been convinced of two<br/>
important facts: viz., that the inter-<br/>
ior of the island is productive to an<br/>
almost unlimited degree, and that the<br/>
means of transport are utterly inade-<br/>
quate to its requirements.—Over.<br/>
Trade Report Mar 18.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Cruise of the "Opossum."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The recent cruise of the Opossum<br/>
has been attended with very brilliant <br/>
results. Lieut. St. John, her com-<br/>
mander, has in one week, captured <br/>
sixteen junks, forty prisoners, fifty <br/>
three guns, has burnt a private village, <br/>
and liberated twenty seven captives,—<br/>
a week's work to be proud of, indeed. <br/>
Our readers will remember that a few<br/>
days ago we reported the arrival of <br/>
the Opossum at Macao with the infor-<br/>
mation that she had destroyed fifteen <br/>
junks. Since then we have learned <br/>
some particulars of her adventures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday the 10th, Lieut. St. <br/>
John applied for leave, and received <br/>
permission from the Admiral to go <br/>
out for a cruise. He did not at that <br/>
time know of any projected operations <br/>
on the part of the pirates, and intend-<br/>
ed simply to look round and see what <br/>
was going on. His fires were no soon-<br/>
er up, however, than scme of the na-<br/>
tive merchants sent off to inform him <br/>
that a number of pirate junks were <br/>
lving at a place called Pak-shui, on <br/>
the west coast, a little beyond Масaо.<br/>
In that direction therefore he steered, <br/>
and yesterday werk flushed the birds <br/>
he was in search of. At the head of <br/>
a small creek stood the village guard-<br/>
ed by a battery of three guns,—one <br/>
of them a 55 cwt-gun throwing a 24 <br/>
th. shot,—and anchored off it, lay the <br/>
piratical junks, fifteen in number. <br/>
They were all armed, some of them <br/>
heavily. In all they carried forty-<br/>
three guns, most of them 18-pounders.<br/>
They were manned by 200 men, and <br/>
it must be acknowledged were not a <br/>
bad match for one bost with only <br/>
three guns on board, manned by about <br/>
seventeen or eighteen Europeans, even <br/>
though these were British seamen. <br/>
Lieut. St. John came in, so that as he <br/>
ran down on the junks they were end <br/>
on to him, and their guns being all in <br/>
the broadside, were consequently use-<br/>
lass. As soon as he came within range, <br/>
he opened a flank fire on the battery, <br/>
and in a very short time, its defenders <br/>
cleared out This was the signal for <br/>
the men in the junks to do the same. <br/>
The whole two hundred scrambled on <br/>
shore, and made off into the interior, <br/>
leaving the vessels a prey to the gun-<br/>
boat. Lient. St. Jons landed with a <br/>
small party of men from the gun-boat, <br/>
and while he was on shore, as we un-<br/>
derstand, the explosion took place on <br/>
board one of the junks by which the <br/>
warrant officer of the Opossum was <br/>
wounded. He was engaged setting <br/>
fire to the vessel when a jar of powd-<br/>
er standing on the deck took fire. <br/>
There was no explosion in the ordin-<br/>
ary sense of the word. That is no <br/>
materials were thrown about, but the
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
gunner was burnt by flame of the<br/>
powder, and by a succession of small-<br/>
er explosions which followed. A boy<br/>
who was with him jumped over-<br/>
board and escaped with but few in-<br/>
juries, but the gunner could not swim<br/>
and had to run on in the junk. A<br/>
marine was wounded in another ex-<br/>
plosion while setting fire to a junk<br/>
which had been hauled upon shore.<br/>
After the work had been performed,<br/>
when the pirates were all out of the<br/>
way, and the Opossum was busily en-<br/>
gaged destroying their craft, a fleet of<br/>
forty Mandarin junks came round the<br/>
point. It seemed that the Imperial<br/>
men-of-war had been twice beaten off<br/>
by the pirates of Pak-shui, and were<br/>
coming down this time in force. The<br/>
one English gunboat however had ac-<br/>
complished the task out of hand, and<br/>
there was nothing left for the Chinese<br/>
but to profit by the victory. They<br/>
landed 1600 men and burnt the vil-<br/>
lage, and Lieut. St. John handed over<br/>
to them the greater number of the<br/>
captured junks and guns after having<br/>
destroyed the rest. He then went to<br/>
Macao, and sent back his wounded<br/>
men to Hongkong. During the whole<br/>
of Monday he remained at Macao, but<br/>
Tuesday morning saw him down the<br/>
west coast again. On Wednesday off<br/>
a place called I-mum he fell in with a<br/>
large heavily armed junk, about thirty<br/>
feet longer than the Opossum, carry-<br/>
ing eight guns (one 50 cwt. one 30<br/>
cwt. and the others 12 pounders), big<br/>
enough to have hoisted Her Majesty's<br/>
small ship Opossum on board alto-<br/>
gether if she had the proper machin-<br/>
ery. This junk was at once recog-<br/>
nised as the vessel of which the gun-<br/>
boat, on information received, was in<br/>
search. When she was stopped, her<br/>
owner was prepared with all the docu-<br/>
ments necessary to prove him, a most<br/>
respectable trader, only carrying guns<br/>
for his own protection, but it happen-<br/>
ed that Lieut. St. John had on board<br/>
the Chinaman, who really owned the<br/>
vessel. She had, it seems, been en-<br/>
trusted to the man now found in pos-<br/>
session of her, who had never after-<br/>
wards accounted for her to his owner,<br/>
but had turned pirate instead. When<br/>
confronted with the Chinese merchant<br/>
on board the Opossum, he saw that<br/>
his game had been "played out," and<br/>
resigned himself to his fate with Asia-<br/>
tic fortitude. He made no further<br/>
attempts to defend himself either by<br/>
arguments or physical force, and to-<br/>
gether with forty companions was<br/>
conducted by the Opossum to Quang-<br/>
hai and given over to the Mandarins.<br/>
By then, he was recognised as a man<br/>
of great influence on the west coast.<br/>
He and his crew will be sent on to<br/>
Canton, and there is no reason to<br/>
doubt the fate that awaits them. The<br/>
captives we spoke of above were re-<br/>
leased at Pak shui before the village<br/>
was burnt.—O. T. Report Mar. 1st,
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bible Readers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I, for one love the Bible supremely.<br/>
In all the world, I have found no book<br/>
to set beside it. Other books I love<br/>
well. Milton, Taylor, Carlyle, Ten-<br/>
nyson, Emerson, Spencer and many a<br/>
noble names beside in this great bro-<br/>
therhood, is so dear to me that there<br/>
are few sacrifices I could not gladly<br/>
make rather than lose their compan-<br/>
ionship. But when I am in any strait<br/>
—-when I want to find words other<br/>
than my own to rebuke some crying<br/>
sin, to stay some desperate sinner, to<br/>
whisper to the soul at the parting of<br/>
the worlds; to read, as I sit by them<br/>
that weep beside their dust, words that<br/>
I know will go to the right place as<br/>
surely as corn dropped into good soil<br/>
on a gleaming May day—-then I put<br/>
aside all books but one—-the book out<br/>
of which my mother read to me, and<br/>
over which she sang to me, as far back<br/>
as I can remember. And it is like those<br/>
springs that never give out in the<br/>
dryest, and never froze in the hard-<br/>
est weather, because they reach so<br/>
directly into the great warm fountain<br/>
hidden under the surface—-it never<br/>
fails me. But have we not all noticed<br/>
the curious fact that men go to the<br/>
Bible for what they want to find, ra-<br/>
ther than for what they ought to find?<br/>
that those who profess the most obso-<br/>
lute submission to its authority offer<br/>
generally the finest proper illustration<br/>
of the supremacy of the soul over<br/>
the Bible in the way they contrive to<br/>
make it serve their turn? and that it<br/>
is by no means impossible to find a du-<br/>
plicate of the good Scotch woman's<br/>
minister, of whom she said, "If there<br/>
is a cross text in the Bible, he is sure<br/>
to find it and take it for a sermon!"<br/>
The truth is, the Bible is like a great<br/>
pasture into which you turn all man-<br/>
ner of feeders. The horse takes what<br/>
he wants; so does the cow. The<br/>
sheep is true to its instinct; so is the<br/>
goat. And then, last of all, the ass<br/>
rolls the thistle, like a sweet morsel,<br/>
under his tongue. So, when a man<br/>
with a large, sweet nature comes to<br/>
the Bible, he crops by a sure instinct<br/>
all the large, sweet passages. The<br/>
hopeful man finds the hopeful things;<br/>
the sad man the sorrowful things; the<br/>
hard man the gritty things; and every<br/>
man the things that satisfy his crav-<br/>
ings, though they may in no way<br/>
make for his peace.—Rev. Robert<br/>
Collyer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Saying of Josh Billings.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is highly important that when a<br/>
man makes up his mind tew become<br/>
a raskal, that he would examine his-<br/>
self closely, and see if he ain't better<br/>
konstituted for a phool.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I argy in this way-—If a man is<br/>
right, he kant be too radical; if he is<br/>
rong, he kant be too conservatiff.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When you pra, pra right at the<br/>
bull's eye.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a very delicate job tew forgive<br/>
a man without lowering him in hiz<br/>
own estimashun, and yures too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is admitted now by everybody,<br/>
that the man who can git fat on ber-<br/>
lony sausage, has got a good deal of<br/>
dorg in him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man luves to get beat, but it is<br/>
better to be bored with a inch orger<br/>
than a gimblet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Don't mistake arrogance for wisdom,<br/>
meany people thought they wuz wize<br/>
when they wuz only windy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Men ain't apt to get kicked out of<br/>
good society for bein ritch.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The road to Ruin is always kept in<br/>
good repair, and the taverns pay the<br/>
expense ov it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The onla profit there is in keepin<br/>
more than one dorg, is what you can<br/>
make on hiz board.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Youn man, study Defference; it is<br/>
the best cart in the pack.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Honests is the poor man's pork and<br/>
the rich man's pudding.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a luxury in sometimes feel-<br/>
ing lonesum.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cowardice of Opiates.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I implore you, do not try morphine<br/>
ever; no, not once. I will trust you<br/>
not to do so not to take any opiate<br/>
whatever. I ask it humbly. Pledge<br/>
me your word that you will honorably<br/>
comply with this, in the letter and in<br/>
the spirit too. It is a wicked and<br/>
cowardly attempt to rule the spirit by<br/>
the flesh. It is beneath you. If you<br/>
do it I can honor you no longer: the<br/>
results upon the system are slow, sure<br/>
and irreparable, and the habit grows<br/>
until it is unconquerable. I am deeply,<br/>
anxiously in earnest. You are not<br/>
worthy the fidelity of my friend-ship if<br/>
you try to drown misery in that way.<br/>
Except in the grossness of the effect,<br/>
where is the difference between the<br/>
opiate and the dram! Do you not<br/>
know what keeps the gin palaces<br/>
open? Misery! The miserable go<br/>
there to forget. You must not, and<br/>
shall not do it, for it is degradation.<br/>
I would have you condescend to no<br/>
miserable materialism to escape your<br/>
sorrow. Remember what Maria Theresa<br/>
said when she began to doze in dying.<br/>
“I want to meet my God awake.”<br/>
Remember that He refused the medi-<br/>
cated opiate at the cross. Meet mis-<br/>
ery awake. May I borrow sacred<br/>
words: “Having begun in the spirit,<br/>
do not be made perfect through the<br/>
flesh.” Summon the force to bear out<br/>
of your own heart, and the divine that<br/>
dwells there-—not out of a laudanum<br/>
bottle. I have spoken ruggedly but<br/>
not rudely. Forgive me; I am myself<br/>
to-night: I would gladly sus-<br/>
tain the depression I feel by opiate, or<br/>
by anything else; but I resist, because<br/>
it is despicable.—-Rev. F. W. Rob-<br/>
ertson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Read Aloud.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reading aloud is one of those exer-<br/>
cises that combine, mental and mus-<br/>
cular effort, and hence has a double<br/>
advantage. To read aloud well, a per-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
son should not only understand the<br/>
subject, but should hear his own<br/>
voice, and feel within him that every<br/>
syllable was distinctly enunciated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reading aloud helps to develop the<br/>
lungs just as singing does, if properly<br/>
performed. The effect is to induce<br/>
the drawing of a long breath every<br/>
once in a while, oftener and deeper<br/>
than that of reading without enunciat-<br/>
ing. These deep inhalations never<br/>
fail to develop the capacity of the<br/>
lungs in direct proportion to their<br/>
practice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Common consumption begins uni-<br/>
formly with imperfect, insufficient<br/>
breathing; it is the characteristic of<br/>
the disease that the breath becomes<br/>
shorter and shorter through weary<br/>
months, down to the close of life, and<br/>
whatever counteracts the short breath-<br/>
ing, whatever promotes deeper inspi-<br/>
rations is curative to that extent,<br/>
inevitably and under all circumstances.<br/>
Let any person make the experiment<br/>
by reading this page aloud, and in<br/>
less than three minutes the instinct of<br/>
a long breath will show itself. This<br/>
reading aloud developes a weak voice<br/>
and makes it sonorous. It has great<br/>
efficiency, also in making the tones<br/>
clear and distinct, freeing them from<br/>
that annoying hoarseness which the<br/>
unaccustomed reader exhibits before<br/>
he has gone over half a page; when<br/>
he has to stop and clear away, to the<br/>
confusion of himself as much as that<br/>
of the subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This loud reading when properly<br/>
done, has a great agency in inducing<br/>
vocal power, on the same principle<br/>
that muscles are strengthened by ex-<br/>
ercise—those of voice making organs<br/>
being no exception to the general rule.<br/>
Hence in many cases, absolute silence<br/>
diminishes the vocal power, just as<br/>
the protracted non-use of the arm of<br/>
the Hindoo devotee at length paralyzes<br/>
it forever. The general plan in ap-<br/>
propriate cases is to read aloud in<br/>
a conversational tone, thrice a day, for<br/>
a minute or two, or three at a time,<br/>
increasing a minute every other day,<br/>
until half an hour is thus spent at a<br/>
time, thrice a day, which is to be con-<br/>
tinued until the desired object is ac-<br/>
complished. Managed thus there is<br/>
safety and efficiency as a uniform re-<br/>
sult.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As a means then, of health, of<br/>
averting consumption, of being social<br/>
and entertaining in any company, as a<br/>
means of showing the quality of the<br/>
mind, let reading aloud be considered<br/>
an accomplishment far more indispen-<br/>
sable than that of smattering French, or<br/>
lisping Italian, or dancing cotillions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Hall’s Journal.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
True Power.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a truly noble sway of man<br/>
over man; one which it is our honor<br/>
to seek and exert; which is earned by<br/>
well doing; which is the chief recom-<br/>
pence of virtue. We refer to the quick-<br/>
ening influence of a good and great<br/>
mind over other minds, by which it<br/>
brings them into sympathy with itself.<br/>
Far from condemning this, we are anx-<br/>
ious to hold it forth as the purest glory<br/>
which virtuous ambition can propose.<br/>
—The power of awakening, enlighten-<br/>
ing, elevating our fellow-creatures<br/>
may, with peculiar fitness, be called<br/>
divine; for there is no agency of God<br/>
so beneficent and sublime as that<br/>
which He exerts on rational natures,<br/>
and by which he assimilates them to<br/>
Himself. This sway over other souls<br/>
is the surest test of greatness. We ad-<br/>
mire, indeed, the energy which subdues<br/>
the material creation or developes the<br/>
physical resources of a state. But it<br/>
is a nobler might which calls forth the<br/>
intellectual and moral resources of a<br/>
people, which communicates new im-<br/>
pulses to society, throws into circula-<br/>
tion new and stirring thoughts, gives<br/>
the mind new consciousness of its fac-<br/>
ulty, and rouses and fortifies the will<br/>
to an unconquerable purpose of well-<br/>
doing. This spiritual power is worth<br/>
all other. To improve man's outward<br/>
condition is a secondary agency, and is<br/>
chiefly important as it gives the means<br/>
of inward growth.—The most glorious<br/>
minister of God on earth is he who<br/>
speaks with a life-giving energy to<br/>
other minds, breathing into them the<br/>
love of truth and virtue, and strength-<br/>
ening them to suffer in a good cause,<br/>
and lifting them above the sense of<br/>
the world.—-Channing
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
April 12th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Songkran Holidays.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the 2nd day of the Siamese<br/>
Sóngk'ran holidays. The term began<br/>
as we are informed according to His<br/>
Majesty's astrological calculation a<br/>
few minutes after one o'clock on Tues-<br/>
day night, and is to continue for a<br/>
period of about 100 hours, that is to<br/>
say until 5 o'clock and a few minutes<br/>
on Sunday morning the 15th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These holiday seasons commence<br/>
precisely at the moment when the sun<br/>
enters the zodiacal sign —— termed<br/>
in the Bali Soorǎ estimate which al-<br/>
ways occurs about the 12th of April.<br/>
The Siamese civil years uniformly<br/>
begins at this time, and being direct-<br/>
ed by the sun may be called their so-<br/>
lar year. But they have also a year<br/>
governed only by the moon and hence<br/>
is their lunar year. This, very oddly,<br/>
always commences at the beginning of<br/>
their 5th month. These two seasons<br/>
of New-year are universally observed<br/>
by the Siamese as holidays. The so-<br/>
lar New-year is regarded with more<br/>
reverence and religious ceremony than<br/>
the lunar New-year but both are large-<br/>
ly devoted to visiting, sporting and<br/>
gambling. And as they occur always<br/>
near together, never more than a<br/>
month apart, and sometimes not more<br/>
than 15 days, they are exceedingly<br/>
annoying to business men from abroad,<br/>
who are anxious to press forward<br/>
their work in hand, but cannot, because<br/>
of the obstinate determination of their<br/>
Siamese employees to spend the great-<br/>
er part of the three days of the for-<br/>
mer, and four days of the latter, in<br/>
play.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The calculations for the beginning<br/>
of the Sóngkran or Solar New-year<br/>
festival are usually made out in readi-<br/>
ness for publication on the day of the<br/>
great congregation to renew the oath<br/>
of allegiance —- which is the 3rd day of<br/>
the 5th month. The king always in-<br/>
vites to his palace a large company of<br/>
Buddhist priests for a royal festival<br/>
on the occasion for four successive<br/>
days. Princes, nobles, lords, and<br/>
people of the more affluent classes<br/>
very generally have special religious<br/>
services at their own houses, feast the<br/>
priests and one another, and play at<br/>
their games of chance much as on the<br/>
lunar New-year holidays. The women<br/>
draw water and bathe the idols, the<br/>
persons of the priests, the elders of<br/>
the people, their grandparents, and<br/>
other aged relatives. They do these<br/>
things thinking to call down blessings<br/>
upon those for whose benefit they<br/>
profess to perform them; but more<br/>
especially upon themselves and their<br/>
families by way of recompense—a car-<br/>
dinal idea in their system of self-right-<br/>
eousness.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Young Siam and her heir
Apparent.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king of Siam re-<br/>
turned from Petchaburee on the 8th<br/>
inst. The royal brass band was on<br/>
board the royal yacht steamer that<br/>
bore His Majesty up the river and<br/>
played charmingly while he passed<br/>
from the lower end of town to the<br/>
royal palace, a distance of more than<br/>
two miles. As we listened to the<br/>
sweet harmony of the spirit stirring<br/>
music we could but say within oursel-<br/>
ves.—Now this is an exhibition of<br/>
Young Siam. How much is she begin-<br/>
ning to look and behave like Europ-<br/>
ean nations! And if she go on in the<br/>
way of improvements in which she<br/>
has entered, another fifteen years as<br/>
since she took it at the beginning of<br/>
the present reign, and be not only<br/>
undisturbed by foreign powers, but<br/>
powerfully aided, as she has been, by<br/>
freedom of intercourse with them, will<br/>
she not prove herself worthy of the age<br/>
in which she lives, and deserve high<br/>
encomiums from the most enlightened<br/>
nations! Our feelings towards Siam<br/>
as she now is and what she promises<br/>
to be, harmonize in the main with<br/>
those expressed by one of our corres-<br/>
pondents in another column of this<br/>
issue. Never before has she had an<br/>
heir-apparent of so much promise at<br/>
the age of 14 years as now in the<br/>
person of Somdetoh Chowfa-Choola-<br/>
lon-korn. And if his life be spared<br/>
(which may Almighty God grant) and<br/>
his education be continued increasing<br/>
in thoroughness as he has begun, sus-<br/>
tained by the presence and power of<br/>
his worthy sire, we think he will be-<br/>
come an illustrious prince, and a most<br/>
worthy heir to the throne of the Pra-<br/>
báts raised to new life and glory. Our<br/>
eyes and our hearts fix upon him as<br/>
the next king of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though the sons of other Siamese<br/>
princes, nobles, and lords are far from<br/>
being what we could wish them to be,<br/>
yet they are far ahead of what their<br/>
fathers were at their age. We regard<br/>
them, on the whole, as being a very<br/>
promising generation, and such as<br/>
should inspire lively hope, and not<br/>
fear, that they will put their shoulders<br/>
to the wheel of progress and carry<br/>
Siam steadily forward in her march<br/>
of improvement.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Papers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had brought before as yesterday<br/>
day a very singular proof that our<br/>
Siamese semi—monthly paper is doing<br/>
positive good by its faithful reporting<br/>
of evil doers. The Siamese govern-<br/>
ment sent us for tangible evidence of<br/>
this fact two muskets, two swords, a<br/>
lot of gold, a piece of white crape, and<br/>
some other articles which had been<br/>
rescued from the hands of highway<br/>
robbers on the canal leading from this<br/>
city to Maháchai. In one of our<br/>
Siamese issues more than a month<br/>
since, we reported a gang of robbers<br/>
in that region, giving the names of<br/>
many of them. The verbal message<br/>
brought us yesterday from the govern-<br/>
ment was, that she wished us to know<br/>
that she was on the alert and deter-<br/>
mined to have justice done to all work-<br/>
of iniquity and that the most of that<br/>
band of robbers had been taken and<br/>
imprisoned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This simplicity and condescension<br/>
of government to cheer us on our way<br/>
was indeed very gratifying. And yet<br/>
it is passing strange that the same gov-<br/>
ernment seems to be condemning our<br/>
papers for their constant influence as<br/>
is said, in stirring up some public ex-<br/>
citement with which the king is trou-<br/>
bled, and many of the chief princes<br/>
and rulers in Bangkok with him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We do not at all wonder that they<br/>
are greatly disturbed by the frequent<br/>
revelations of corruption that our pa-<br/>
pers are making; and it pains us ex-<br/>
ceedingly to do this work. But like<br/>
faithful surgeons who see no other<br/>
way to cure than to lance a spreading<br/>
abscess, and bring out the corruption,<br/>
and no way to save the body but to<br/>
amputate a mortified limb, so we feel<br/>
that we must take the course we do<br/>
so long as we occupy an editorial<br/>
chair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government appear to be<br/>
frightened at the revelations we are<br/>
making, thinking that she will get the<br/>
name of being the most corrupted in<br/>
the world. But it is time that she<br/>
had learned the lesson that the only<br/>
way to cure this corruption is to ex-<br/>
pose it to light, and that the light that<br/>
exposes it should not be blamed, but<br/>
the men that produce it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the "Bangkok Recorder"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"An article which appeared in the<br/>
Singapore Daily Times, of the 28th<br/>
ulto. from a correspondent in Siam<br/>
though it have the appearance of con-<br/>
veying a good deal of truth, has cer-<br/>
tainly some things in it quite open<br/>
to criticism. To say nothing of the<br/>
troubles in the outer provinces of Siam<br/>
of which the writer speaks, I think the<br/>
remarks concerning Young Siam<br/>
quite too sweeping; and I cannot<br/>
think the author has critically watch-<br/>
ed her manly growth or he would<br/>
never have made the blunder, in say-<br/>
ing that there are none being trained<br/>
to fill the places of her presunt rulers.<br/>
Is it to be supposed that a Monarch<br/>
whose kingdom has made such pro-<br/>
gress in the arts and sciences as his<br/>
has done under the liberal policy of<br/>
free trade, free speech, free press,<br/>
free schools, free religion, free con-<br/>
science, free every thing that does<br/>
not interfere directly with his gov-<br/>
ernment is to take no interest in,<br/>
and make no provision for its per-<br/>
manency and future welfare? Let<br/>
that brilliant company of young prin-<br/>
ces and princesses, sons and daughters<br/>
of His Majesty the supreme king,<br/>
more than thirty in number with the<br/>
heir apparent a remarkably clever<br/>
lad of 14 years at their head, all<br/>
training under his own eye, in his<br/>
own palace by the best European<br/>
teacher His Majesty is able to secure,<br/>
answer; And they can do it with a<br/>
flourish of the pen that would put<br/>
many of us to the blush. And what<br/>
of the other princes-—brothers, ne-<br/>
phews, and cousins of His Majesty?<br/>
Ask that middle aged portly Prince<br/>
who is peering into every nook and<br/>
corner that he may get a little light<br/>
to shine upon his sons and daughters.<br/>
See him stepping into your parlor<br/>
with his great atlas under his arm,<br/>
school boy like, asking for a minute<br/>
knowledge of the physical world.<br/>
How long before the sons of such a<br/>
prince will see to it that there be a<br/>
geography translated into their own<br/>
language? And what shall be said of<br/>
His Majesty's Prime Ministers-—the<br/>
one for the Southern division of Siam<br/>
the other for the Northern? —Prime<br/>
as these men are, and worthy of their<br/>
titles is it to be dreamed, even, that<br/>
they have no sons in their large fami-<br/>
lies of blooming youth under training<br/>
to fill their places that time must ere-<br/>
long vacate? It is a whole sale slan-<br/>
der to name the thing, and preposter-<br/>
ous even to dream of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Who but with lively sympathy and<br/>
high regard, can behold Siam's Mon-<br/>
arch a man of superior talents, with<br/>
an insatiable thirst for knowledge,<br/>
with an indomitable will for improve-<br/>
ment, and a soul sufficiently expansive<br/>
to place his people in the full enjoy-<br/>
ment of the blessings of the most en-<br/>
lightened nations; but seeing it yet<br/>
impracticable, he carries Old Siam in<br/>
his benevolence, and presses forward<br/>
Young Siam if possible to keep pace<br/>
with the high pressure of enlightened<br/>
Christendom urging him onward and<br/>
upward in his desires and purposes.<br/>
He has not only put into offices of<br/>
trust generally the best and most en-<br/>
lightened men his kingdom could pro-<br/>
duce, but he has also sought out and<br/>
selected many helpers from among<br/>
his European and American friends.<br/>
And in making these selections there<br/>
seems to have been a remarkable<br/>
cleverness and soundness of wisdom<br/>
in avoiding national partialities, and<br/>
keeping up a kind of balancing power<br/>
among them. One of them trains his<br/>
soldiers, with his accompanying brass<br/>
band. Another is Captain in the Royal<br/>
navy. Another is Commissioner of<br/>
the Police Force. Another is Har-<br/>
bor Master and Master Attendant.<br/>
Another is teacher of His Majesty's<br/>
numerous and most promising family.<br/>
Others are preparing books for him on<br/>
the arts and sciences, literature and reli-<br/>
gion, and another is foreman in the<br/>
Royal Printing Office &c. These<br/>
several aids of which His Majesty has<br/>
availed himself are so distributed<br/>
among the different nationalities as<br/>
that in fact none has greatly, if at all<br/>
the preminence, although from a curso-<br/>
ry glance some might think otherwise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing has been said of the schools<br/>
in operation for the common classes<br/>
and the powerful though silent influ-<br/>
ence they are exerting on Siam's fu-<br/>
ture well being. Let us then give<br/>
His Majesty our full confidence and<br/>
earnest prayers that his precious life<br/>
may be prolonged, until he see the<br/>
full accomplishment of his best wishes<br/>
for the good of his people, and not<br/>
burden him unnecessarily with our<br/>
doubts and criticisms. We are prone<br/>
to err greatly in the exercise of an<br/>
impatient spirit touching the progress<br/>
Young Siam is making in her ad-<br/>
vances towards the higher civilization<br/>
of European nations. In our ardor<br/>
we would have her rush on to perfec-<br/>
tion with a velocity a hundred fold<br/>
greater than our world's history has<br/>
ever known.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SIGMA.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MR. EDITOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR:—The kingdom of Siam has<br/>
been brought into considerable notice<br/>
during the last few years, but the va-<br/>
rious publications relating to the<br/>
country give very little idea of the<br/>
government except in general terms,<br/>
and nothing whatever so far as it re-<br/>
lates to her numerous provinces. In<br/>
your last issue you refer to the esta-<br/>
blishment of telegraphs and railways<br/>
through the country, (which heaven<br/>
grant may be speedily consummated)<br/>
but the peculiar relations of the pro-<br/>
vinces to the central government are<br/>
said to be such that it is doubtful<br/>
whether the Court of Bangkok can<br/>
authorize such works without first<br/>
consulting those provinces on the<br/>
subject. This leads to the inquiry,<br/>
how many provinces has Siam, and<br/>
what are their relations to the central<br/>
government ? Any information you<br/>
can give on this subject, will confer a<br/>
public good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
INQUIRER.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok April 10th 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our contemporary the London &<br/>
China Express informs us, that Mr.<br/>
T. W. Smith (Nuk Prat of Bangkok<br/>
notoriety, or perhaps better known as<br/>
the Reporter to the Siam Times) has<br/>
arrived in London from Shanghai<br/>
bringing home a Chinese dwarf (the<br/>
same that was exhibited here) aged<br/>
about 35, and said to be the son of<br/>
the Pilot who conducted the English<br/>
fleet into Chusan, and who was dwarf-<br/>
ed by the Chinese authorities as a<br/>
punishment for the sin of his father.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that at a recent<br/>
meeting of the Royal Asiatic Society,<br/>
Dr. A. Bastian read a paper in eluci-<br/>
dation of a number of Indo-Chinese<br/>
alphabets, collected by him during his<br/>
sojourn in Burmah, Siam, Cambodia<br/>
and other parts of Transgangystic<br/>
India.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some curious facts were stated,<br/>
bearing on the history of these alpha-<br/>
bets, and among others, that in the<br/>
oldest Siamese stone inscriptions, that<br/>
of Sukkhothay, all the vowels are<br/>
written in a line with the consonants,<br/>
instead of (at least some of them) being<br/>
placed above or below the line.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thieves are again at their nefarious<br/>
work. Dr. Campbell has been rob-<br/>
bed of his two ponies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Impregnable" will leave for<br/>
Singapore on Wednesday next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer "Chow Phya" left for<br/>
Petchaburee at 3 A. M. 7th inst. Pas-<br/>
sengers; Messrs. Blake, Sinclair &<br/>
Volger.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A "hard case" has been brought<br/>
to our notice in regard to a seaman<br/>
lately discharged from the Siamese<br/>
ship Conqueror. Our readers will<br/>
remember that this vessel was attack-<br/>
ed by Pirates and that, after a noble<br/>
resistance, the marauders were finally<br/>
beaten off. During the affray the<br/>
best part of the crew betook them-<br/>
selves to such parts of the craft as<br/>
appeared to them the most safe, while<br/>
the unfortunate fellow of whom we<br/>
write was one of those who defended<br/>
the vessel and received a wound in the<br/>
action. On being paid off, the sum of<br/>
$10 odd were due to him, which<br/>
amount was handed to the Doctor<br/>
for medical attendance upon the<br/>
wound received while defending the<br/>
owner's property!!! Can such injus-<br/>
tice stimulate future crews similarly<br/>
situated. ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are remarkably few fires oc-<br/>
curring in this dry season in Bangkok.<br/>
It is, perhaps, attributable to more<br/>
vigilance of government this year than<br/>
formerly. We noticed that in the<br/>
dry season of last year there was a<br/>
marked improvement in this respect<br/>
over the year previous. We have<br/>
heard of no conflagrations of any note<br/>
from the 6th of last month to the<br/>
6th inst. On that day there was a<br/>
small fire broke out on the opposite<br/>
side of the river from our office, and<br/>
burned three houses near the palace of<br/>
His Royal Highness Krom Mua<br/>
Oodom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn from reliable authority<br/>
that a messenger has quite recently<br/>
arrived from Choong Mai from whom<br/>
the Siamese government has learned<br/>
that while the Chief of Choong Mai<br/>
had in a panic done many things that<br/>
were wrong, there seems to be no evi-<br/>
dence that he has ever had any<br/>
thought of going over to the Burmese<br/>
for protection. The prospects of war<br/>
in that quarter appear hence to have<br/>
happily blown over.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home returned from Petchaburee on<br/>
the 9th, coming by the inland route<br/>
via Bagch'ang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
W. H. Reid Esqr. had the pleasure<br/>
and profit of accompanying H. E.<br/>
which gave him a good opportunity<br/>
to see a good deal more of Siam than<br/>
he could have done had he returned the<br/>
straight way across the Gulf. Mr.<br/>
Reid is to remain, we understand, un-<br/>
til H. S. M's. gunboat "Impregnable"<br/>
shall sail for Singapore on the 18th<br/>
inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He is now, by the politeness of H.<br/>
E. occupying a mansion in H. Excel-<br/>
lency's beautiful garden having his<br/>
table furnished bountifully by gov-<br/>
ernment. We learn that His Majes-<br/>
ty the king has appointed royal com-<br/>
missioners to meet Mr. Reid in a day,<br/>
or two for the purpose of settling the<br/>
terms and conditions on which the<br/>
Telegraph line from Maulmain to<br/>
Singapore shall pass through Siamese<br/>
territory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An Austrian expedition, composed<br/>
of the corvette Friedrich and the fri-<br/>
gate Schwarzenberg, under the com-<br/>
mand of Rear-Admiral Tegethoff, is to<br/>
leave the port of Trieste this spring<br/>
for the Indian and China sea, to nego-<br/>
tiate treaties of navigation and com-<br/>
merce with the monarchs of the far<br/>
East similar to those which the other<br/>
European Powers have been making<br/>
for several years past.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that two men-of-<br/>
war were to sail from Trieste about<br/>
the middle, or end of this month<br/>
(April). The Ambassador is to come<br/>
Overland to Singapore in June next,<br/>
and meet the expedition there, and it<br/>
will first visit Siam to make a Treaty,<br/>
or go to China and Japan first.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The merchants of Trieste, and<br/>
amongst them especially Mr. Consul<br/>
Edmund Bauer, Deputy of the<br/>
Chamber of Commerce, and partner<br/>
of the magnificent dock establishment<br/>
"Stabitiments Ticnico Triestno" have<br/>
with great energy pushed the Treaty<br/>
matter, and the enlightened master of<br/>
Commerce, Baron V. W"allerstoff<br/>
Urbian, formerly commander of the<br/>
frigate "Novara" who made the voy-<br/>
age round the world in 1858, had en-<br/>
tered upon their proposals with full<br/>
interest, so that the embassy to the<br/>
East is fully arranged now.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Ambassador Chevalier von<br/>
Scherser was a member of the expedi-<br/>
tion in the "Novara" and is there-<br/>
fore well acquainted with the customs<br/>
of the East.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to announce that<br/>
A. Redlick Esq. has been appointed<br/>
Consul of His Imperial Royal Majes-<br/>
ty Francis Joseph 1. of Austria, to<br/>
the Kingdom of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have been informed that a<br/>
Prussian gentleman, a stranger in the<br/>
country, having but lately arrived from<br/>
China, was rather rudely treated last<br/>
evening by a band of Siamese in the<br/>
front of the Royal palace. Report says<br/>
that he rode a pony up to the lower<br/>
guard station, and seeing a wide open-<br/>
ing to the beautiful lawn in front of the<br/>
royal palace, and no sign of a living<br/>
guard, or even a gun, or any thing else<br/>
intimate to him that he must not ride<br/>
his pony upon the ground, and no<br/>
one having informed him that there<br/>
was any such limitation to his riding,<br/>
rode in and through nearly to the pa-<br/>
lace of the 2nd king, and then turned<br/>
back. But before he got back to the<br/>
gate, the guard rushed out and arrested<br/>
him, and talked loudly to him in Siam-<br/>
ese. He being an utter stranger in Siam<br/>
could not of course make out what they<br/>
wanted of him, and found himself in a<br/>
complete fix. They however, to<br/>
make a short work of it, lead him and<br/>
his pony across the lawn to the rear of<br/>
the residence of Mr. Leomones, and<br/>
signified to him in some way that he<br/>
must leave his pony and saddle and<br/>
bridle with them and make his<br/>
way home on his own legs as best he<br/>
could. Finding no one to help him<br/>
out of his dilemma he walked home and<br/>
reported the matter to the Prussian<br/>
consul. We are not informed of the<br/>
result.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now we have not the least fault to<br/>
find with the law against riding in<br/>
front of the royal palace nor against<br/>
the good regulations that have been<br/>
established for the purpose of having<br/>
that law carried into effect. But we<br/>
do think that there was in this instance<br/>
a very inexcusable slackness of the<br/>
guard at the gate, and that they and<br/>
not the Prussian gentleman ought to<br/>
be made to suffer for it ; and then<br/>
made to understand that one of them<br/>
at least must always be standing at<br/>
the gate as men in such stations always<br/>
do in Europe. We are informed that<br/>
it is rare to find any one standing at<br/>
all in the attitude of a sentinel, but<br/>
generally all lying down. Now we<br/>
hold that this is not only dishonorable<br/>
to His Majesty, the porch of whose<br/>
palace they are appointed to guard<br/>
but unfaithful to the foreign commu-<br/>
nity especially strangers riding for<br/>
pleasure, whom their standing with<br/>
gun in hand is supposed to warn away<br/>
from the premises without the ne-<br/>
cessity of a word spoken.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
George Stephenson.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from No. 13.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Years went on, and the locomotive<br/>
was dragging the coal waggons on the<br/>
tram-road at Killingworth, without<br/>
any one thinking of the possibility of<br/>
such a plan being adopted of dragging<br/>
passenger carriages. The common peo-<br/>
ple called the engine Puffing Billy,<br/>
and after a little time curiosity ceased<br/>
about the matter, until a gentleman of<br/>
property, named James, discovered<br/>
—-not the locomotive, but George<br/>
Stephenson, and had the wisdom to<br/>
see that he had made a great discovery.<br/>
This gentleman thought of railways<br/>
and steam travelling as possible, and<br/>
in 1818 submitted a plan to public<br/>
investigation. Another powerful friend<br/>
rose at this time, Edward Pease, an<br/>
eminent Quaker, graphically described<br/>
by one who knew him as " a man<br/>
who could see a hundred years ahead!"<br/>
This worthy gentleman, aided by<br/>
others of his persuasion—-Richardsons,<br/>
Backhouses, &c., formed the first rail-<br/>
way company, and the first line of rail<br/>
laid down, was form Wilton Colliery,<br/>
near Darlington, to Stockton, and was<br/>
called in the district "the Quakers'<br/>
line." The best works the old Ro-<br/>
mans left were their wars, and the re-<br/>
suits of those wars are like a tedious<br/>
fable. We in this age may well look<br/>
on the first railway with interest, for<br/>
when the record of our warriors and<br/>
our victories shall have dwindled into<br/>
insignificance, these railways will tell<br/>
to coming generations of the stout<br/>
hearts, strong hands, and wise heads<br/>
of the nineteenth century.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was, of course, plenty of<br/>
laughter about the railways; people<br/>
used the word "ridiculous;" some<br/>
noblemen would not have their fox<br/>
covers disturbed; others ordered their<br/>
people to drive off any person making<br/>
surveys, as trespassers, or summarily<br/>
to duck them in a neighbouring horse-<br/>
pond; and pamphlets were written to<br/>
alarm the public. It was gravely stated,<br/>
that if railways were formed, it would<br/>
prevent the cows from grazing, hens<br/>
from laying, and that the poisoned air<br/>
from the locomotives would kill the<br/>
birds as they flew, and render the<br/>
preserving of game impossible. While<br/>
householders near the line were told<br/>
their houses would be burnt up, vege-<br/>
tation destroyed, innkeepers ruined,<br/>
and passengers massacred. And when<br/>
it was known that Mr. Stephenson<br/>
had said travelers could journey at a<br/>
speed of twelve miles an hour, there<br/>
was one shout of laughter throughout<br/>
the kingdom. But truth, though of-<br/>
ten impeded, is never overcome. Ste-<br/>
phenson and his band of faithful friends<br/>
and scientific allies bore the brant of<br/>
this ridicule.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No trial that the great engineer ever<br/>
endured, equalled his examination be-<br/>
fore a committee of the House of<br/>
Commons, in March, 1825. He was<br/>
then forty-four years old, a well-<br/>
built man with a comely, intelligent<br/>
face, and mild, prepossessing manners.<br/>
But his speech retained a touch of<br/>
his native dialect, and his ideas were<br/>
swifter and far more powerful than<br/>
the words that he found to express<br/>
them. So that confused by many<br/>
questions, and conscious that he was<br/>
looked upon doubtingly, he was em-<br/>
barrassed and did not do himself jus-<br/>
tice. He wished, as he said, for any<br/>
hole to creep out of, and would rather<br/>
have done the very hardest work than<br/>
have stood before that committee, one<br/>
of whom asked " if he was a foreig-<br/>
ner?" another said, " he was mad,<br/>
and one put this case for his consider-<br/>
ation, " suppose one of these engines<br/>
to be going along a railroad at the rate<br/>
of nine or ten miles an hour, and sup-<br/>
pose a cow were to stray upon the<br/>
line, would not that, think you, be a<br/>
very awkward circumstance?" "Yes,"<br/>
said Stephenson drily "Very awkward<br/>
indeed" for the cow." The laugh on<br/>
this occasion was not against the wit-<br/>
ness, who sadly perplexed as he was,<br/>
resolved not to be put down, and ulti-<br/>
mately the bill was obtained for the<br/>
Liverpool and Manchester Railway.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That line runs for twelve miles over<br/>
a bog called Chat's Moss. There never<br/>
was such a triumph of road-making<br/>
as carrying a line over that dreadful<br/>
swamp. It occupied many months,<br/>
and cost a vast sum of money, but<br/>
the road was at length safe and good,<br/>
and it remains the best part of the<br/>
line. *From this time the fame of the<br/>
great engineer was established-—his<br/>
fortune made.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Besides his labours as railway engi-<br/>
neer, Stephenson is beloved in the<br/>
north of England for his valuable in-<br/>
vention of a safety lamp called a<br/>
"Geordie," and without taking from<br/>
the great name and merits of Sir<br/>
Humphrey Davy, whose invention is<br/>
equally original and efficacious; the<br/>
Geordie Lamp was in the hands of the<br/>
manufacturer on the 24th of Novem-<br/>
ber, 1815 he had been completing it<br/>
from August of that year, and it was<br/>
not until after the lamp had been<br/>
brought into use in the pit on Decem-<br/>
ber the 3rd, that Stephenton heard of<br/>
a safety lamp in the course of con-<br/>
struction by the above-named great<br/>
chymist.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To trace the progress of the great<br/>
engineer's success, would be to write<br/>
the history of railroads in Britain.<br/>
The high level bridge, Newcastle; the<br/>
tubular bridge, Menai Straits, are<br/>
some of the greatest works of fa-<br/>
ther and son, while the Kilsby Tun-<br/>
nel, in the excavating of which, the<br/>
men came upon a quicksand, that then<br/>
had to pump dry by the labour of 13<br/>
engines, 200 horses, 1250 men,<br/>
night and day for eight months, rais-<br/>
ing 1800 gallons a minute, seems a<br/>
labour and expense almost incredible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a fine quality in Mr. Ste-<br/>
phenson's character, that he liked to<br/>
aid talent in others. Many young men<br/>
looked up to him as a father. He<br/>
promoted their interests, and aided<br/>
them by his wise advice. He often<br/>
bore testimony to the power of per-<br/>
severance, by relating passages in his<br/>
own life, at the mechanics' and Liter-<br/>
ary institutions in the north, or near<br/>
Tapton Hall, his country seat, in Der-<br/>
byshire, and once, when a Secretary<br/>
asked how he should announce his<br/>
name—-What were his ornamental<br/>
initials? he said " I have no flourishes<br/>
to my name either before or after, and<br/>
I think it best you merely say, George<br/>
Stephenson. It is true I am a Belgian<br/>
Knight; but I do not wish to have any<br/>
use made of it." Thus simple, modest,<br/>
unassuming in his wealthy days as he<br/>
had been industrious and kindly in his<br/>
struggling years; he passed on to a<br/>
genial old age, surrounded by faithful<br/>
friends, comforted by an affectionate<br/>
wife; whom, many years after the<br/>
wife of his youth had passed away,<br/>
he had sought as the companion of<br/>
his declining years, and blessed by the<br/>
dutiful attentions of his congenial-<br/>
minded child, his son went peacefully<br/>
down, in the sure and certain hope of<br/>
a brighter rising to an endless day.<br/>
After a short illness, he died, of ef-<br/>
fusion of blood from the lungs, August<br/>
the 12th, 1848, aged 67.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all the relationships of life-—as<br/>
son, husband, father, servant, master,<br/>
and friend, George Stephenson is a<br/>
most noble model of a true hearted<br/>
man His biographer does not tell<br/>
us of his spiritual or inner life ; but<br/>
such kindness and goodness do not<br/>
spring from unaided human nature,<br/>
and doubtless he could say, " it is by<br/>
God's grace I am what I am."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The Writer is indebted to "Smiles'<br/>
Life of George Stephenson" for the facts<br/>
recorded.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Mexican Question.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Parisian Correspondent for the Penang<br/>
Argus Jan. 8th 1866. Says:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the questions the first and<br/>
most important is that touching the<br/>
occupation of Mexico by the French<br/>
troops, and the future relations of<br/>
France with the United States. The<br/>
paragraphs in which the Emperor al-<br/>
luded to this delicate question are ex-<br/>
tremely unsatisfactory to all parties.<br/>
They contain nothing but the reitera-<br/>
tion of a vague promise made last year,<br/>
which, in point of fact, amounts to<br/>
nothing at all. The Emperor was<br/>
well aware that he was not in a position<br/>
to say anything definite upon this sub-<br/>
ject, and would perhaps have passed<br/>
it over in silence, had it not been<br/>
necessary to disarm the opposition,<br/>
and if possible prevent them from ac-<br/>
cusing him of not fulfilling the promises<br/>
made to them in the last session. The<br/>
great mass of the people in this coun-<br/>
try are strongly opposed to the oc-<br/>
cupation of Mexico, and all those also<br/>
know the exact value to be placed<br/>
upon the Emperor's words, are griev-<br/>
ously disappointed, for they look into<br/>
the future, and see no tangible hope of<br/>
escape from the difficulties into which<br/>
the Emperor's dangerous and foolish<br/>
policy must inevitably lead us. Apro-<br/>
pos of Mexico you will remember that<br/>
the Emperor Maximilian before start-<br/>
ing for his new empire placed the<br/>
Chateau of Merimar at the disposal of<br/>
the Austrian Imperial family. We<br/>
now learn that the Archduke, Charles<br/>
Louis, second son of the Emperor of<br/>
Austria and his family arrived at the<br/>
castle on the 10th, with the intention<br/>
of spending some time there. Query,<br/>
—Are they warming the house for<br/>
Maximilian?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The diplomatic documents relating<br/>
to this question, have been laid by<br/>
President Johnson before Congress.<br/>
The notes exchanged between the<br/>
French government and that of the<br/>
United States occupy just now the<br/>
attention of all American, English and<br/>
French newspapers. It is now manifest<br/>
that notwithstanding the tranquility<br/>
and confidence afforded by the French<br/>
government, the United States, though<br/>
having but just brought the civil war<br/>
to a termination, declared that it would<br/>
never recognize the Emperor Maxim-<br/>
ilian. The President is desirous of<br/>
remaining on good terms with France,<br/>
but this desire will not induce him to<br/>
sacrifice the Monroe doctrine:-—He<br/>
has ever regarded the government of<br/>
Mexico as any other than that of a<br/>
republic, and when he speaks of Max-<br/>
imilian he terms him the Archduke<br/>
of Austria, styling himself Emperor of<br/>
Mexico. He complains bitterly of<br/>
foreign intervention in the internal af-<br/>
fairs of an American people, at all times<br/>
the ally and friend of the United States,<br/>
and he omits no opportunity of enu-<br/>
merating all the acts of cruelty, per-<br/>
petrated by Maximilian’s lieutenants,<br/>
against the Mexican officers taken<br/>
with arms in hands defending their<br/>
country and lawful government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The institution of Peonage in Me-<br/>
xico, which is nothing else but disguis-<br/>
ed slavery, excites also bitter recrim-<br/>
inations. An intercepted letter from<br/>
Capt. Maury, has been published,<br/>
which is very compromising for the<br/>
Emperor Napoleon, who is represented<br/>
as personally interested in this work<br/>
of Mexican emigration, which is nothing<br/>
else than a means offered to the slave<br/>
holders of the South, to escape from<br/>
the domination of the North, and<br/>
to avoid the abolition of slavery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The attitude of the French govern-<br/>
ment in this correspondence is suf-<br/>
ficiently humiliating. It is evident<br/>
that it comprehends the impossibility<br/>
of any longer carrying on an enter-<br/>
prise, which became impossible the<br/>
moment that the North had trium-<br/>
phed over the South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nevertheless it endeavoured to dis-<br/>
guise from itself the necessity of yield-<br/>
ing to the injunction of the govern-<br/>
ment of Washington without at the<br/>
same time, daring to openly declare<br/>
itself the protector of Maximilian. It<br/>
seems probable, that the French gov-<br/>
ernment has decided on its future line<br/>
of conduct, and that not being able to<br/>
overcome the obstinacy of the North,<br/>
it has made up its mind to with-<br/>
draw its troops.—-This is at least what we<br/>
are given to hope from the Imperial<br/>
discourse on the 22nd instant, and<br/>
there are more than one reason for<br/>
supposing, that this time the promise<br/>
will not be a falsehood, or intended<br/>
only to keep the opposition in good<br/>
humour. *{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is generally believed that the<br/>
Emperor occupies himself a great deal<br/>
not only with the internal policy of<br/>
the country, but also in foreign affairs,<br/>
and that his ministers are nothing<br/>
more than his chief clerks. This was<br/>
true for many years, but in these last<br/>
eighteen months the Emperor has com-<br/>
pletely changed, in constitution he has<br/>
become an old man, and his only de-<br/>
sire now is to enjoy life tranquilly and<br/>
die in peace; he always goes to bed<br/>
before midnight, rises every morning<br/>
at five o'clock, and spends his morning<br/>
hours in writing the “Life of Julius<br/>
Cæsar.” In point of fact he has now<br/>
what may be called, a from hand to<br/>
mouth policy, and keeps constantly in<br/>
his mind the passage from scripture.<br/>
“Sufficient for the day is the evil there-<br/>
of.” Sometimes he takes whims and<br/>
starts, such, for instance as the evac-<br/>
uation of Rome, at other times he adopts<br/>
despotic measures, an example of which<br/>
we have in his speech of to day. There<br/>
is however one part of the Emperor’s<br/>
character which always affords him a<br/>
support on which he can rely and that<br/>
is his belief in his lucky star. That<br/>
star he says has never deceived him,<br/>
and will continue to guide him as the<br/>
star in the east, did the Magi of old.<br/>
The people however do not possess the<br/>
same confidence in the Emperor’s<br/>
lucky star, as you will see from the<br/>
following curious cabalistic calculation<br/>
which is now being circulated in pri-<br/>
vate, of course this is done with the<br/>
utmost secrecy. Louis Philippe came<br/>
to the throne in 1830, and was obliged<br/>
to fly in 1848. Napoleon III was de-<br/>
clared Emperor in 1852, and it is<br/>
predicted that he will fall in 1869.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor was strongly attached<br/>
to Mr. Cobden, and at one time Mr<br/>
Bright held a prominent place in his<br/>
esteem. The semi-official journals had<br/>
orders to seek every opportunity of<br/>
praising him: but the turn of events<br/>
are now making in England and the<br/>
power Mr. Bright is acquiring with<br/>
Lord Russel has somewhat alarmed<br/>
the Emperor, for he feels certain, and<br/>
certain it would be, that should Mr.<br/>
Bright's liberal mênsores succeed in<br/>
England, a revolution in France would<br/>
inevitably follow. In my present let-<br/>
ter the political element has gained the<br/>
ascendency, but to day the atmosphere<br/>
of Paris is overcharged with politics<br/>
and their influence is the more keenly<br/>
felt as we have just emerged from that<br/>
state of political torpor, which always<br/>
precedes the opening of the session<br/>
But I will now change the subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Penang Argus
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Situation of France with
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It cannot be concealed that "the<br/>
situation," as our neighbours might<br/>
phrase it, is an awkward one, and can<br/>
easily be converted into a dangerous<br/>
one. On the one hand, France has<br/>
committed herself to an enterprise<br/>
which was certainly ultra vires; and,<br/>
on the other, America takes her<br/>
stand on a doctrine which, as her<br/>
politicians now interpret it, is unten-<br/>
able. Neither of the Powers can boast<br/>
of an unassailable position; but both<br/>
are determined, at almost any sacrifice<br/>
of sentiment, to avoid war. There is,<br/>
however, this material difference in the<br/>
relative chances of the two Govern-<br/>
ments—that of the United States is<br/>
backed by the public opinion, perhaps,<br/>
it would be more correct to say, the<br/>
popular passion, of the community,<br/>
while that of France is condemned by<br/>
its own subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Under such circumstances, it is not<br/>
likely that diplomatic differences will<br/>
be widened into an international rup-<br/>
ture. Some compromise which will<br/>
save appearances on both sides will be<br/>
earnestly searched for, and, we will<br/>
hope, be ultimately discovered. The<br/>
danger is that, while things remain in<br/>
their present state of entanglement,<br/>
rash and irresponsible zealots may<br/>
succeed in rousing the pride or kin-<br/>
dling the resentment of one or the other<br/>
of the principals in the dispute, and a<br/>
collision may become inevitable. We<br/>
trust that Napoleon's good fortune will<br/>
rescue him from any such calamitous<br/>
result. But we fear there remains but<br/>
small chance that his grand experiment<br/>
will illustrate by its final result the<br/>
sagacity of his statesmanship. Time<br/>
and events will be far more likely to<br/>
prove that Imperialism is a plant which<br/>
cannot be acclimatised in the northern<br/>
continent of America; that it demands<br/>
for its development a far different pol-<br/>
itical atmosphere; and that, after all,<br/>
the Latin races will do wisely to ac-<br/>
cept their "manifest destiny," and not<br/>
seek for themselves a troublous and<br/>
uncertain one on the other side of the<br/>
Atlantic. For ourselves, we should<br/>
not have been sorry to witness the<br/>
realisation of the "Napoleonic idea;"<br/>
but unless we misread the signs of the<br/>
times, Dis aliter visum, an it is use-<br/>
less to war against Nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ill. London News.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Luther and Calvin as
Students.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Luther, when studying, always had<br/>
his dog lying at his feet, a dog which<br/>
he had brought from Wartburg, and<br/>
of which he was very fond. An ivory<br/>
crucifix stood at the table before him,<br/>
and the walls of his study were stuck<br/>
around with caricatures of the pope.<br/>
He worked at his desk for days toge-<br/>
ther without going out; but when<br/>
fatigued, took his guitar with him in-<br/>
to the porch, and there executed some<br/>
musical fantasy. (for he was a skill-<br/>
ful musician,) when the ideas would flow<br/>
upon him fresh as flowers after a sum-<br/>
mer's rain. Music was his invariable<br/>
solace at such times. He was accus-<br/>
tomed to say that after theology<br/>
music was the first of arts. Next to<br/>
music, if not before it, Luther loved<br/>
children and flowers. That great<br/>
gnarled man had a heart as tender as<br/>
a woman's.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Calvin studied in his bed. Every<br/>
morning at five or six o'clock, he had<br/>
books, manuscripts and papers carried<br/>
to him there; and had he occasion to<br/>
go out, on his return be undressed and<br/>
went to bed again to continue his<br/>
studies. In his later years, he dictated<br/>
his writings to his secretaries; He<br/>
rarely corrected anything. The sen-<br/>
tences issued complete from his mouth.<br/>
If he felt the facility of composition<br/>
leaving him, he forthwith quitted his<br/>
bed, gave up writing and composition<br/>
and went about his out-door duties<br/>
for days, weeks and mouths together.<br/>
But when he felt the inspiration fall<br/>
upon him again, he went to bed, and<br/>
his secretaries set to work forthwith.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hurrah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The exclamation of "Hurrah!"<br/>
which is so powerfully sounded through<br/>
the air wherever bravery, courageous<br/>
audacity and energy are intended to<br/>
be praised, is a Slavonic term, mean-<br/>
ing in English, "to the Paradise!"<br/>
The origin of the word is derived<br/>
from the primeval idea that every<br/>
man that dies as a hero for his country<br/>
will forthwith be transferred to heaven.<br/>
During the heat of fighting and the<br/>
struggle of a battle, the combatants<br/>
will sing out this call with the same<br/>
religious feelings as the Turks cry<br/>
their "Allah." The "Hurrah" will<br/>
fill every warrior with enthusiasm,<br/>
inspiring him with the hope of ins-<br/>
tantly receiving the heavenly reward<br/>
for his bravery. Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Birth and deaths.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The births of 2246 children (1149<br/>
boys and 1097 girls) were registered<br/>
in London last week. In the corres-<br/>
ponding weeks of ten years, 1856-65,<br/>
the average number, corrected for in-<br/>
crease of population, was 2081. The<br/>
deaths registered in London last week<br/>
were 1569. It was the third week of<br/>
the year, and the average number of<br/>
deaths for that week is, with a correc-<br/>
tion for increase of population, 1641.<br/>
Whooping-cough is the most fatal<br/>
disease in the zymotic class, according<br/>
to the present return, and it is record-<br/>
ed in 78 cases. There are 69 deaths<br/>
from typhus; 38 from scarlatina; 38<br/>
from measles; 16 from smallpox. To<br/>
phthisis 165 deaths are referred to<br/>
bronchitis, 188; pneumonia, 110; to<br/>
disease of the heart, 59. Seven deaths<br/>
by carriage accidents in the streets<br/>
were registered in the week.—-The<br/>
births registered in London and twelve<br/>
other large towns of the United King-<br/>
dom last week were 4568; the deaths<br/>
registered, 3590. The annual rate of<br/>
mortality was 31 per 1000 persons liv-<br/>
ing. The annual rate of mortality<br/>
last week was 27 per 1000 in London,<br/>
26 in Edinburgh, and 31 in Dublin;<br/>
44 in Liverpool, 42 in Manchester,<br/>
33 in Salford, 29 in Birmingham,<br/>
34 in Leeds, 29 in Sheffield, 31 in<br/>
Bristol, 41 in Newcastle-on-Tyne, 26<br/>
in Hull, and 33 in Glasgow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ill. London News Jan 27th
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gibbon's Confession.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The celebrated Gibbon confessed<br/>
just before his death, that when he<br/>
considered all worldly things, they<br/>
were fleeting; when he looked back,<br/>
they had been fleeting; when he look-<br/>
ed forward, "all was dark and<br/>
doubtful." Surely no one can wish<br/>
to be an infidel for the comfort of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RICE—-Common cargo Tie. 57 P coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Good do " 65 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Clean do " 69 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}White do " 81 do<br/>
PADDY—-Namaun " 52 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Namaun " 59 do<br/>
TEELSEED " 102½ do<br/>
SUGAR No. 1. " 10¼ P Picul<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 10½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 3 " 9½ do<br/>
Steam made No. 1 " 11½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 10¾ do<br/>
BROWN " 1 " 7 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 6 do<br/>
BLACK PEPPER " 10 do<br/>
BUFFALO HIDES " 11¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}HORNS " 12 do<br/>
COW HIDES " 15¾ do<br/>
GUMBENJAMIN No. 1. " 720 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 120 do<br/>
TIN " 1 " 40 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 37 do<br/>
HEMP " 1 " 22 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 21 do<br/>
GAMBOGE " 54 do<br/>
SILK-—Kerst " 305 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Cochin China " 765 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Cambodia " 625 do<br/>
STICKLAC No. 1. " 14 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 18 do<br/>
CARDAMUMS-—Best " 210 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Mustard " 27½ do<br/>
SAPANWOOD-—4 @ 5 " 3¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}6 @ 7 " 2⅓ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}8 @ 9 " 2¼ do<br/>
BEES WAX " 95 do<br/>
LUK KRABOW SEED " 2⅓ do<br/>
IVORY—-4 @ 5 " 340 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}6 @ 7 " 330 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}8 @ 9 " 315 do<br/>
DRIED MURHELS No. 1 " 13 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 11 do<br/>
TEAKWOOD " 10 P Yok<br/>
ROSEWOOD No. 1. " 200 P 100 Pic.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 165 do<br/>
REDWOOD " 1. " 250 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2. " 95 do<br/>
MATRAGS " 8 P 100<br/>
GOLD LEAF—Tie. 16 P Ticala weight.<br/>
EXCHANGE-—On Singapore 1 per cent<br/>
discount. On Hongkong 3 per cent discount.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A gentleman complaining of the<br/>
various taxes, says he cannot put on<br/>
his boots in the morning without a<br/>
stamp.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The fellow that doesn't benefit<br/>
the world by his life, does it by his<br/>
death.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Advice is like snow—-the softer<br/>
it falls, the longer it remains, and the<br/>
deeper it sinks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Those are the best Christians who<br/>
are more careful to reform themselves<br/>
than to censure others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The best way to do good to our-<br/>
selves is to do it to others; and the<br/>
right way to gather it is to scatter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—It is not enough that you are<br/>
praised by the good; you have failed<br/>
somewhere in your duty, if you are<br/>
not cursed by the bad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Washington once said, "If a<br/>
Dutchman gets rich by keeping a cor-<br/>
ner grocery, nobody sees anything out<br/>
of the way in it; but if a literary man<br/>
gets anything beyond his bread and<br/>
cheese, gad sir, they put it in the news-<br/>
papers; it's more wonderful than the<br/>
great turnip."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professor W——, of——Universi-<br/>
ty, is something of a wag, and the boys<br/>
seldom get the start of him in the way<br/>
of practical jokes. One day, on-going<br/>
into the recitation room, Freshman class<br/>
present, he found a sheep sitting in a<br/>
chair. His sole remark, addressed po-<br/>
litely to the sheep, "How are you<br/>
Freshman;" rather turned the joke on<br/>
the boys. Similarly, when at anoth-<br/>
er time opening his desk a goose flew<br/>
out, "Ah, gentleman, another class-<br/>
mate, I see!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—When thou prayest for spiritual<br/>
graces, let thy prayer be absolute.<br/>
When for temporal blessings, add a<br/>
clause of God's pleasure; in both, with<br/>
faith and humiliation; so shalt thou,<br/>
undoubtedly, recieve what thou desir-<br/>
est, or more or better. Never, pray-<br/>
er rightfully made, was made unheard,<br/>
or heard ungranted.—-Quartus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Why are wheat and potatoes like<br/>
the idols of old! Because the former<br/>
have ears and hear not, and the latter<br/>
have eyes but see not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—True philosophy has depth with<br/>
out darkness, but much which passes<br/>
for it has darkness without depth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Brigham Young is indeed a pil-<br/>
lar of Salt Lake. His idea of a wife<br/>
is—-Lots.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Baron Rothschild once complain-<br/>
ed to Lord Brougham of the hardship<br/>
of not being allowed to take his seat<br/>
in Parliament. "You know," said he,<br/>
"I was the choice of the people." To<br/>
which the ex-Chancellor, with his usu-<br/>
al custicasy replyed, "So was Barrab-<br/>
bas."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Education and Longevity.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A writer in the Atlantic Monthly<br/>
proves by statistics that man's longev-<br/>
ity is in exact proportion to his edu-<br/>
cational attainments, provided his<br/>
health has not been injured by over<br/>
mental exertion. It seems that in-<br/>
creasing intelligence and decreasing<br/>
war have prolonged the average length<br/>
of life in Europe from twenty-five<br/>
years in the seventeenth century to<br/>
thirty-five in the eighteenth, and to<br/>
forty-five in the nineteenth. The best<br/>
educated communities are the longest<br/>
lived, and the best educated soldiers<br/>
live amazingly longer than the mere<br/>
ignorant, and seem to wear a charmed<br/>
life, not so much against bullet and<br/>
bayonet, as against the effect of dis-<br/>
ease, privation and even severe wounds,<br/>
on their constitutions and lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Young Ladies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A cotemporary discourses in this<br/>
wise: "The number of idle, useless<br/>
girls, in all our large cities, seems to<br/>
be steadily increasing. They lounge<br/>
or sleep through their mornings and<br/>
parade the streets during the afternoon,<br/>
and assemble in frivolous companies of<br/>
their own and the other sex to pass a<br/>
way their evenings. What a store of<br/>
unhappiness for themselves and others<br/>
are they laying up for coming time,<br/>
when real-duties and high responsibil-<br/>
ities shall be thoughtlessly assumed!<br/>
They are skilled in no domestic duties<br/>
—nay, they despise them, have no hab-<br/>
its of industry nor taste for the use-<br/>
ful. What will they be as wives and<br/>
mothers? Alas, for the husbands and<br/>
children, and also for themselves!—<br/>
Who can wonder if domestic unhappi-<br/>
ness and domestic ruin follow?"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Widow's Mite
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Covetous people often seek to shel-<br/>
ter themselves behind the widows mite<br/>
and to give a paltry sum to benevolent<br/>
objects, under cover of her contribu-<br/>
tion. The follow'ng incident has a moral<br/>
for all such:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gentleman called upon a wealthy<br/>
friend for contribution.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, I suppose I must give you my<br/>
mite," said the rich man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You mean the widow's mite, I sup-<br/>
pose," replied the other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"To be sure I do."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gentleman continued.—-"I will<br/>
be satisfied with half as much as she<br/>
gave. How much are you worth?"<br/>
"Seventy thousand dollars," he an-<br/>
swered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Give me then a check for thirty-<br/>
five thousand; that will be just half as<br/>
much as the widow gave, for she gave<br/>
all she had."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a new idea to the wealthy<br/>
man.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE is hereby giv-<br/>
en that the business of<br/>
the China Traders Insurance<br/>
Company Limited will here-<br/>
after be conducted by Messrs.<br/>
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
to whom I have this day trans-<br/>
ferred the 'agency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, April 5th 1866.
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-12_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.<br/>
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Messrs R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
will be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S. & Co with their patronage are assur-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
