---
linkTitle: 'November 8th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 8th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 8th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 67
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY,</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">November 8th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 44.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following are the latest Tele-<br/>
grams to hand:–
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, SEPTEMBER 29TH, (MORN-<br/>
ING).—Serious injury has taken place to<br/>
the growing cotton crop in Louisiane and<br/>
Mississippi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Johnson losing popularity, and partisans<br/>
are a less numerous in his favour. Alliance<br/>
formed between Democrats and Republi-<br/>
cans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Disastrous inundations in France, now<br/>
subeiding.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 2ND, AFTERNOON.—-<br/>
The trial of Mr. Jefferson Davis has been<br/>
indefinitely postponed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON OCTOBER 4TH AFTERNOON.—-<br/>
There has been another battle in Candia.<br/>
The Treaty has been signed between Aus-<br/>
tria and Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCT. 5TH, [AFTERNOON]:—-<br/>
The American debt was reduced fifteen<br/>
millions of dollars during September last.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 6TH, [MORNING]:—-<br/>
The Emperor Maximillian has declared<br/>
that he never will abandon Mexico. The<br/>
New York Herald and Times, Grant and<br/>
Stanton urge acceptance of the constitu-<br/>
tional amendment. Seward recovered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CALCUTTA, 8TH OCTOBER:—-A telegram<br/>
has just reached Calcutta to the effect that<br/>
His Lordship the Bishop of Calcutta was<br/>
accidentally drowned this evening at<br/>
Koochbes in stepping from the Steamer<br/>
KOML to the shore. Up to 8 P. M. the bo-<br/>
dy had not been recovered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 8TH (MORNING),—-<br/>
Prussia has formally taken possession of<br/>
Hanover.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The King absolved subjects from<br/>
oath of allegiance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 8TH (AFTERNOON).—-<br/>
The "Times" publishes an address of<br/>
condolence to Colonel Crawley; and<br/>
justifies retrospective verdict of Court<br/>
Martial of 1863.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON OCTOBER 9TH (MORNING).—-<br/>
Great reform demonstrations at Leeds in<br/>
favor of manhood suffrage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The formal incorporation of Frank-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
fort, Cassel and Nassau with Prussia<br/>
took place yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 10TH (MORNING).—-<br/>
The Austrians are evacuating the Ve-<br/>
netian fortresses and transferring them<br/>
to the French Commissioners, who are<br/>
re-transferring them to the Italian Mu-<br/>
nicipalities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of Mexico is mentally<br/>
indisposed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A scheme to resuscitate the Agra<br/>
Bank in India will be shortly promul-<br/>
gated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Liverpool Cotton Market to-day<br/>
closes firm and active.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
European Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM L. & C. EXPRESS SEPTEMBER 17.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.—-The affairs of Mexico are<br/>
causing great anxiety. General Castelnau<br/>
has been specially despatched by the Em-<br/>
peror. The cholera in Paris has subsided,<br/>
but it has increased at Marseilles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.—-A farewell banquet has been<br/>
given to the Americans. The Commis-<br/>
sioner and fleet have left. Preparations<br/>
are on foot to be ready for any emergency<br/>
in Europe. General Mouravieff is dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.-—President Johnson<br/>
and suite continue their tour through the<br/>
west. At some places the President's<br/>
speeches are interrupted by hoots and his-<br/>
ses, and cries of “Traitor” Mr. Seward in<br/>
his speech foreshadowed the early down-<br/>
fall of the Republicans if they continued<br/>
in their radical course. Fears are enter-<br/>
tained of political riots in Chicago during<br/>
the President's visit there. The Board of<br/>
Trade have refused the use of their hall<br/>
for the President's reception.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Radicals have carried the Main<br/>
elections. Gold, 146¼. Exchange on Lon-<br/>
don, 106. Five-Twenty United States<br/>
Bonds, 111; Illinois, 122; Erie, 72½. Cot-<br/>
ton, 38½c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRUSSIA.—-Count Bismarck is suffering<br/>
from a relapse of neuralgia in the left leg.<br/>
He is confined to his room, and forbidden<br/>
to receive visitors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Brazils.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DEFEAT OF THE ALLIED ARMY.—-On<br/>
the 16th of July, the Allies attacked the<br/>
advanced posts of the Paraguayans, but<br/>
were repulsed. The whole allied army re-<br/>
commenced the attack on the 18th, and<br/>
obtained a temporary advantage, but were<br/>
subsequently driven back behind their<br/>
intrenchments. They lost 280 officers,<br/>
8,000 men, and a considerable quantity of<br/>
war material.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The French Circular Note.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Marquis de Lavalette has addressed<br/>
to the French diplomatic agents in for-<br/>
eign parts a circular dated the 16th inst.,<br/>
which is very pacific in tone. After show-<br/>
ing that the recent changes in Europe are<br/>
favourable to France, the circular pro-<br/>
ceeds:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The coalition of the three Northern<br/>
Courts is broken up. The new principle<br/>
ruling in Europe is the liberty of allian-<br/>
ces. Aggrandised Prussia secures the in-<br/>
dependence of Germany. France will not<br/>
feel disposed to oppose or to regret the<br/>
work of assimilation which has just been<br/>
accomplished and to subordinate to feel-<br/>
ings of jealousy the principles of national-<br/>
ities which represent and profess regard<br/>
for the peoples. By imitating France, Ger-<br/>
many has taken a step which draws her<br/>
nearer to us. Notwithstanding unreflec-<br/>
ting susceptibilities, Italy has equally<br/>
drawn nearer to us in ideas, principles,<br/>
and interests. The September Convention,<br/>
which secures the Pontificial interests,<br/>
will be loyally carried out. Second class<br/>
naval forces are arising in the Baltic and<br/>
Mediterranean, which assure liberty of<br/>
those seas. Austria, relieved of her Ita-<br/>
lian and German leanings, and no longer<br/>
employing her forces in barren rivalries,<br/>
but concentrating them upon the East of<br/>
Europe, still represents 35 million souls,<br/>
whom no hostile interests separate from<br/>
France. By what singular reaction of the<br/>
past upon the future shall public opinion<br/>
see, not the allies but the enemies of France<br/>
in nations liberated from a past that was<br/>
hostile to us, and now called to enter up-<br/>
on a new existence guided by principles<br/>
which are our own and animated by the<br/>
sentiments of progress which form the<br/>
pacific link of society! A Europe more<br/>
strongly constituted and more homogene-<br/>
ous by better defined territorial division<br/>
is a guarantee for the peace of the Contin-<br/>
ent, and is neither a peril nor an injury to<br/>
our nation."{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•{{< news/indent1 >}}•
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The Government comprehends annexa-<br/>
tions dictated by the absolute necessity of<br/>
uniting to a country populations having<br/>
the same manners and the same national<br/>
spirit. It can only desire those territorial<br/>
aggrandisements which would not affect<br/>
its powerful cohesion, but must always la-<br/>
bour for its moral and political aggrandise-<br/>
ment, using its influence on behalf of the<br/>
great interests of civilisation. Neverthe-<br/>
less, the results of the late war teach an<br/>
important lesson, and show the necessity<br/>
which exists for the defence of our terri-<br/>
tory, and for perfecting without delay our<br/>
military organisation. The nation will not<br/>
fail in this duty, which cannot be regard-<br/>
ed as a threat by any."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In conclusion, the circular considers the<br/>
political horison to be free from any threat-<br/>
ening contingencies, and expresses belief<br/>
in a lasting peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE HOME NEWS, SEPTEMBER 18.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A circular of a pacific tone has been<br/>
addressed by the French government to<br/>
its diplomatic agents abroad.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The negotiations for a settlement be-<br/>
tween Austria and Italy have been in-<br/>
terrupted by difficulties concerning the<br/>
Venetian debt, but are now proceeding<br/>
satisfactorily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Austrian army is being replaced<br/>
on a peace footing; and the Prussian<br/>
Baltic fleet has been put out of commis-<br/>
sion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Upper Chamber of the Prussian<br/>
Parliament has agreed to the Govern-<br/>
ment Annexation Bill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The opposition to President Johnson<br/>
menaces America with a new domestic<br/>
struggle. The Abolitionists denounce<br/>
the President as a traitor and usurper.<br/>
The elections have been carried against<br/>
him in Maine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The allied army of Brazil has sustain-<br/>
ed a severe defeat in a battle with the<br/>
Paraguayans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A revolt against the Turkish autho-<br/>
rities has broken out in Upper Epirus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Convention of Fenians at Troy is<br/>
said to have determined upon the in-<br/>
vasion of Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some Fenian prisoners have escaped<br/>
into the United States from Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
America has been in treaty with Tur-<br/>
key for the cession of an island in the<br/>
Gulf of Egina.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Franco-Mexican Convention has<br/>
been published. It transfers half the<br/>
maritime customs receipt, of Mexico to<br/>
France in payment of the French loans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A popular disturbance has taken place<br/>
at Amsterdam arising from the prohi-<br/>
bition by the authorities of the annual<br/>
fair, in consequence of cholera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reform meetings continue to be held<br/>
in different parts of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cholera returns fluctuate from<br/>
day to day in London. The cattle<br/>
plague returns exhibit a decrease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The health of the Emperor of the<br/>
French is said to be much affected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A shock of an earthquake has been<br/>
felt in Paris, and other parts of France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The disturbances in Circassia have<br/>
been entirely suppressed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All attempts to settle the Hungarian<br/>
question have failed up to this time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM HOME NEWS OF SEPTEMBER 26TH.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An extraordinary violation of the<br/>
Extradition Treaty has been committed<br/>
in Canada. The matter has excited a<br/>
considerable sensation in England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lord Mayor of London has in-<br/>
augurated a movement for raising funds<br/>
to mitigate the sufferings from famine<br/>
in India.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty between Prussia and Sax-<br/>
ony has not yet been completed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The omission of all mention of Eng-<br/>
land in the circular of the French For-<br/>
eign Minister has occasioned much com-<br/>
ment. The circular is considered paci-<br/>
fic, with a reservation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cable across the Gulf of St. Law-<br/>
rence has been completed. A third ca-<br/>
ble is being laid across the Straits of<br/>
Northumberland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera still continues to fluctuate in<br/>
London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The statement that England has ad-<br/>
vised Turkey to cede Crete is unfounded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Greek government has addressed<br/>
the protecting Powers, asking their in-<br/>
terference on behalf of Crete.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The payment due on the 1st of Oc-<br/>
tober at Paris upon Mexican bonds has<br/>
been postponed. The non-payment has<br/>
produced great sensation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large Reform meetings have been<br/>
held in Liverpool and Manchester.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Messina has returned Mazzini to the<br/>
Italian Parliament.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The re-organisation of the French<br/>
army on a scale of extraordinary mag-<br/>
nitude is contemplated by the Emperor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
News unfavourable to the imperial<br/>
government has been received from<br/>
Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenian Congress have deposed<br/>
Sweeny, and re-elected Roberts as Pre-<br/>
sident.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Legislative Body of Frankfort<br/>
has been dissolved for declining to take<br/>
the oath to Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon has gone to<br/>
Biarritz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Archduke Albrecht has been ap-<br/>
pointed commander-in-chief of the Aus-<br/>
trian army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A ship from New Orleans laden with<br/>
cotton has been wrecked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The differences between President<br/>
Johnson and the Radicals are becoming<br/>
more fierce and dangerous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An American steamer has been seized<br/>
at Montreal on suspicion of being in the<br/>
service of the Fenians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Napoleon's health is<br/>
said to have already improved under the<br/>
influence of the sea breezes and moun-<br/>
tain air of Biarritz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deposed German princes are ma-<br/>
king the best of their situation. The<br/>
Duke of Saxe Meiningen, who has ab-<br/>
dicated in favour of his son, quits with<br/>
"profound emotion" the government<br/>
which for 48 years he has ruled with<br/>
"affection and fidelity." The Elector<br/>
of Hesse, in releasing his troops from<br/>
their allegiance, bids them remember<br/>
the glorious history of their ancestors<br/>
for 400 years. Meanwhile the Elector<br/>
may console himself with a splendid re-<br/>
venue and two princely domains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Turkey.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If a telegram from Constantinople may<br/>
be trusted, the Cretans have sustained a<br/>
serious defeat near Millien, and four dis-<br/>
tricts have offered their submission. The<br/>
Turks are pouring in troops; and, ac-<br/>
cording to a report which has reached<br/>
Paris, divisions had arisen in the coun-<br/>
cils of the insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A despatch from Constantinople, dated<br/>
September 12, states that an insurrection<br/>
had broken out in Kosan Dagh, to which<br/>
the authorities themselves were accessory.<br/>
The Turkish troops had been surprised,<br/>
and a whole company cut to pieces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Canada.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The excitement caused by the appre-<br/>
hension of a Fenian raid appears to have<br/>
diffused itself nearly all over Canada.<br/>
A Toronto telegram to the New York<br/>
papers, dated September 12, say:—<br/>
``The Hamilton Times,' 'Ottawa Post,'<br/>
'Montreal Herald,' and 'Toronto Globe'<br/>
urge that the whole American people<br/>
and government are responsible for the<br/>
war waged by the Fenians on Canada,<br/>
and that England must insist on its sup-<br/>
pression or de-clare war. The papers<br/>
discuss nothing but Fenianism. Brant-<br/>
ford is in great alarm, the people and<br/>
authorities believing that an advance<br/>
guard of Fenians has arrived there. The<br/>
town and vicinity are swarming with<br/>
strange characters, and the home-guard<br/>
has been ordered on duty. An excur-<br/>
sion party from London to Cleveland, on<br/>
Friday last, had to leave the latter place<br/>
suddenly on account of fearing an at-<br/>
tack from a Fenian mob. Several volun-<br/>
teer companies, from both Upper and<br/>
Lower Canada, are disbanding on account<br/>
of unpopular appointments and other<br/>
causes. The English Adjutant-General<br/>
M'Dougall has become very unpopular.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From China Overland Mail.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The difficulty at Peking, occasioned by<br/>
the French building their Cathedral to a<br/>
height greater than the wall surrounding<br/>
the Emperor's palace, has been settled by<br/>
limiting the building to a height of eighty<br/>
feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A placard has been issued in Honam,<br/>
urging combination among natives for the<br/>
massacre or expulsion of foreigners, espe-<br/>
cially English. Disturbances among the<br/>
Chinese soldiery at Nankin. The Vice-<br/>
roy beheaded 54 men caught robbing the<br/>
inhabitants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Commissioner Pin returned. His notes<br/>
are to be translated into English and<br/>
French, and will probably be printed. The<br/>
work will be very interesting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pirates who murdered the Captain<br/>
and some men of the LUNA, are not yet<br/>
found; but several Chinese are in custody<br/>
on suspicion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chinese have received reply to their<br/>
memorial again the Stamp Act and Piracy<br/>
Ordinances. The Governor, explains the<br/>
nature of the Ordinances stating that they<br/>
are necessary for suppression of piracy,<br/>
and for regulation of the Colony and must<br/>
be carried out. Several hundred copies of<br/>
the reply, printed in Chinese, have been<br/>
circulated among the native population,<br/>
and their minds are now more easy. A<br/>
final memorial from foreign residents<br/>
against the Stamp Act, for transmission to<br/>
Earl Carnarvon, was sent to the Governor<br/>
on Saturday. It bears 301 signatures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Coolie trade from Macao is animated.<br/>
Several ships have just sailed for Havana<br/>
and other ports, with coolies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several wrecks have occurred on the<br/>
coast, chiefly of small vessels. The tea-<br/>
ship 'Westminster' homeward bound,<br/>
wrecked on Pratas Shaol. Salvage of car-<br/>
go is uncertain. The 'Osprey' despatch ves-<br/>
sel was sent to assist; her cutter with 12<br/>
men and master got adrift owing to heavy<br/>
weather, but was picked up by a junk and<br/>
returned after five days absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Tycoon died early in September.<br/>
His successor, named by the Gorojio, is<br/>
Stotabashi, who is believed to be favoura-<br/>
ble to opening the country to foreign trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The war in the South is supposed to<br/>
have terminated; Chosiu has dictated<br/>
terms of peace advantageous to himself,<br/>
and including demand for a public apolo-<br/>
gy from the Tycoon's Government, for as-<br/>
persions on him to the Mikado and to<br/>
foreigners. Lady Parkes gave birth to a<br/>
son September 16.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Cyclone,' with coals from Sydney<br/>
to Shanghai totally lost on Japan coast.<br/>
Several of crew drowned. Survivors (1st<br/>
Mate and 2 seamen) were treated kindly<br/>
by the Japanese, and taken by them to<br/>
Yokohama. More steamers are said to have<br/>
been purchased by the Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Critical News From Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
RANGOON TIMES OCT. 6TH:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We give prominence to the annexed<br/>
telegram, from which it will be seen that<br/>
affairs in this country—with which we<br/>
have taken so much pains to induce a<br/>
reasonable understanding, and in which<br/>
negotiation there was but lately the<br/>
strongest hopes that we had succeeded—<br/>
had taken an unfavourable turn, amount-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent1 >}}MR. SIMPSON,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}} TO ALL STATIONS.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
ting to a disagreeable complication whie<br/>
cannot but call forth serious reprisals.<br/>
It is not all gold that glitters in politics<br/>
arrangements, however prepossessing<br/>
they may appear outwardly for a season:<br/>
FROM GALLE, 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}30th-5-15.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
ARRIVED STEAMER "BERAR" from<br/>
Hongkong 11th, Singapore 21st and Pe-<br/>
nang 22nd September-—Nineteen boxes<br/>
of bullion, the property of the Agra<br/>
Bank, seized on board the mail steamer<br/>
as she was leaving Hongkong-—From<br/>
Japan the news is that the war continues<br/>
between Cuioton and the Ghogoon, the<br/>
former victorious at all points. The<br/>
Ghogoon is said to have abdicated—-Sir<br/>
Harry Parkes has met with rudeness and<br/>
some of his officers stoned at Jeddo—<br/>
Italian treaty with Ghogoon signed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}TELEGRAPH MASTER. {{< news/indent2 >}} MAULMAIN.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
J. B. CARRAPIETT,
Gov. Telegraph station 4th Oct. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rebellion in Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THAYETMIO, AUGUST 31.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am writing from our frontier Station<br/>
where I have been since the news of out-<br/>
break reached us, and as you may wish to<br/>
know how matters are going on I will give<br/>
you the general position of affairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rebel Princes of Ava who murdered<br/>
their uncle, the Heir Apparent to the<br/>
throne, two of their own brothers and<br/>
some of the Ministers, have evidently made<br/>
a miscalculation. The outbreak took<br/>
place on the 2nd of August, and since that<br/>
date they have been unable to create a<br/>
party. They got possession of the King's<br/>
only steamer, then at Mandelay, and came<br/>
down the river; stopping about forty<br/>
miles from the British frontier. From<br/>
the Towns on the banks of the river they<br/>
made exactions, and where refused they<br/>
burnt down. But the officials who were<br/>
in charge either withdrew into the interior,<br/>
or fled to British territory; there was no<br/>
fraternizing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Princess then commenced the re-as-<br/>
cent of the river, and having come within<br/>
sixty miles of the capital they have stopped<br/>
again. Unable to collect troops, entirely<br/>
restricted to the steamer, and shut out<br/>
from any coalition with the King or the<br/>
other Princes, they must give in. Either<br/>
they will be captured, or they will manage<br/>
to escape to British territory. Their<br/>
chance against the King seems hopeless.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile the Padeing Prince (Mentha),<br/>
the son of the murdered Heir Apparent,<br/>
holds aloof. He went alone to that coun-<br/>
try where Rebel Princes have before gone<br/>
always to return in sufficient strength to<br/>
overpower the King. But it does not ap-<br/>
pear that he means to attack the King.<br/>
There have been some skirmishing between<br/>
his men and the King's, not far from the<br/>
capital, in which his party were worst'ed;<br/>
but he has made no vigorous attempt to<br/>
take Mandelay. He is said to be at heart<br/>
more angry against the Rebel Princes who<br/>
killed his father, than against the King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All this delay is of course favourable to<br/>
the King. From the British frontier sixty<br/>
miles northward he has re-established his<br/>
authority, and he has from the beginning<br/>
securely held the capital, which is a walled<br/>
city, having several guns; it has been<br/>
considerably strengthened since the out-<br/>
break, and as far as one can judge there is<br/>
no risk of disaffection within. The pro-<br/>
bable result of the present outbreak is that<br/>
the Rebel Princes will be captured or will<br/>
fly, and the Padeing Mentha will submit<br/>
to the King, who has promised him favour.<br/>
The Thongzai Prince, the only adult son of<br/>
the King now with him in Mandelay, will<br/>
likely be made Heir Apparent; indeed it<br/>
is reported that he has already received<br/>
that position.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was no good and sufficient cause<br/>
for the outbreak. There was manifestly<br/>
no preparation for the subsequent measures<br/>
that might be necessary, and unless the<br/>
murders were to satisfy personal re-<br/>
venge, it is hard to understand what<br/>
prompted the deed. It would be explain-<br/>
able on the theory that the King and all<br/>
the Princes had plotted the destruction of<br/>
the Heir Apparent, his brother and their<br/>
uncle. And it is just possible that what<br/>
happened was a blundering execution of<br/>
an unripe scheme. But it has to be con-<br/>
sidered that immediately after the out-<br/>
break, the King sent to the Padeing<br/>
Mentha offering him the position of his<br/>
father, including the all important post of<br/>
Heir Apparent. This the Padeing Mentha<br/>
thought it imprudent to accept, and the<br/>
King then called in his own son, the<br/>
Thongzai Prince. The future politics of<br/>
Ava, even when this disturbance is over,<br/>
promise to be troublous enough.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GENERALS of the regular army<br/>
now rank in the order of their names in<br/>
the following list : General Ulysses S.<br/>
Grant; Lieutenant-General William T.<br/>
Sherman; Major-Generals Henry W.<br/>
Halleck, George C. Meade, Philip H.<br/>
Sheridan, George H. Thomas, Winfield<br/>
S. Hancock; Brigadier Generals Irwin<br/>
McDowell, William S. Rosecrans, Philip<br/>
St. George Cooke, John Pope, Joseph<br/>
Hooker, John M. Schofield, Oliver O.<br/>
Howard, Alfred H. Terry, E. O. C. Ord,<br/>
and E. R. S. Canby.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of all these, General Terry, the bril-<br/>
liant captor of Fort Fisher, and faithful<br/>
commander in Virginia, is the only officer<br/>
drawn from civil life. All the others<br/>
were educated at West Point.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
November 8th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Another Glance.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last Chow Piya, has put us in<br/>
receipt of papers from Europe to the<br/>
22nd and from America to the 6th of<br/>
Sept.; from India to the 11th, from<br/>
Burmah to the 16th, from Shanghae<br/>
to the 6th and Hongkong the 11th<br/>
ulto.; from Penang and Singapore to<br/>
the 25th and 31st respectively; and our<br/>
latest telegram from London is only<br/>
to the 10th of October.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we consider that it requires<br/>
only a moment of time to flash a tele-<br/>
gram 3000 miles across the Atlantic,<br/>
we feel quite dissatisfied, nay even<br/>
vexed with the present state of the<br/>
Telegraphic lines from Europe to Cal-<br/>
cutta, which requires us to wait a<br/>
month for our telegrams. Since science<br/>
has so successfully removed the oceans<br/>
out of the way of telegraphing, it<br/>
should quickly annihilate all lesser<br/>
obstacles in this eastern hemisphere of<br/>
unbroken land communication. Most<br/>
earnestly do we look for the day, ex-<br/>
pecting it soon to break, when the elec-<br/>
tro-telegraph lines between Great Bri-<br/>
tain and her colonies in Asia will be<br/>
so improved and extended, that we in<br/>
Siam, too, can hear from our homes in<br/>
Europe and America every day. And<br/>
we rejoice to learn that the EASTERN<br/>
ASIA TELEGRAPH COMPANY which con-<br/>
template extending the British Indian<br/>
line from Maulmain down the Malay<br/>
peninsula to Singapore, touching at<br/>
Pinang and Malacca, and sending a<br/>
branch from Tavoy to Bangkok, 80<br/>
miles, is in a fair way of being com-<br/>
menced, and that it will not require<br/>
more than one year to complete the<br/>
work after having begun it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed, also, by the pros-<br/>
pectus of said Company, that the Ne-<br/>
therlands India government have al-<br/>
ready begun to stretch a line of tele-<br/>
graph wires through the island of<br/>
Sumatra, and will complete it before<br/>
the end of the year 1867, and that the<br/>
government will be glad to have it<br/>
united with the one in contemplation,<br/>
which can readily be done by a sub-<br/>
marine cable from Malacca. We ex-<br/>
pect to hear that the two Atlantic<br/>
Cables are waking up all parts of<br/>
our world to extraordinary efforts in<br/>
telegraphing. Even heathen govern-<br/>
ments are already being aroused by<br/>
them—-Siam taking the lead. The<br/>
Emperor of China has granted Euro-<br/>
peans the privilege of laying a sub-<br/>
marine line from Peking to Hong-<br/>
kong to touch at'all the intermediate<br/>
ports that shall be thought worthy of<br/>
having a branch. And such is the<br/>
importance of commercial and politi-<br/>
cal interests in China, that western<br/>
capitalists and governments cannot<br/>
rest until China is in lightening com-<br/>
munication with the western world.<br/>
And it cannot be long hence ere the<br/>
whole earth shall be as it were, one<br/>
speaking gallery
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The news from Europe is remark-<br/>
ably pacific. Though many news-pa-<br/>
per writers, both in France and Eng-<br/>
land, prognosticatesbeing close at hand<br/>
still greater political up-heavings in<br/>
that land than any that have as yet<br/>
taken place, we see but little reason to<br/>
fear such results Yet we are learning<br/>
more and more the uselessness of po-<br/>
litical prophecying in thistime of won-<br/>
ders, excepting so far as we keep<br/>
close to the spirit of prophecy as re-<br/>
corded in the word of God. By that<br/>
word we are authorized to expect that<br/>
"Babylon the great" is about to fall,<br/>
and that "in one hour her judgment<br/>
is to come." But what further commo-<br/>
tions that event will produce in Eu-<br/>
rope, none can tell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We see from our London files that<br/>
England cannot rest quietly in her<br/>
aristocratic proclivities. She must<br/>
extend the elective franchise more and<br/>
more freely to her millions of<br/>
working classes. The Spirit of God<br/>
is stirring up the people to demand it,<br/>
and raising up illustrious leaders who<br/>
will carry them onward to the enjoy-<br/>
ment of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from the U. S. is a<br/>
strange mixture of peace and great<br/>
political commotion The blacks who<br/>
were partially enfranchised by the<br/>
late civil war, are the innocent occasion<br/>
of it, as they were of the late war,<br/>
and as Israel was of the plagues in<br/>
Egypt. We believe God is with the<br/>
former as he was with the latter de-<br/>
manding that justice shall be dispen-<br/>
sed to them by the U. S. Government.<br/>
It is in vain for the government to<br/>
ery peace peace while they with hold<br/>
from the blacks equal enfranchise[?]ment<br/>
with the whites. God who has thus<br/>
far liberated them by the uplifted<br/>
hand of his power, is now, we think,<br/>
most distinctly calling upon the gov-<br/>
ernment to finish the work in right-<br/>
eousness. But the President, standing<br/>
at the helm of state, refuses to obey<br/>
the divine injunction, The Constitu-<br/>
tional amendment, passed by congress<br/>
with the view to do this justice to<br/>
the blacks, he is making desperate<br/>
efforts to strangle before it can be-<br/>
come a law of the land. The course<br/>
which he is taking to strengthen his<br/>
policy party is most extraordinary,<br/>
and without a precedent for undig-<br/>
nified deportment. Many of his<br/>
speeches made en route to Chicago<br/>
early in September, have deeply dis-<br/>
gusted and mortified all American<br/>
citizens who were not in sympathy<br/>
with the late rebellion. These were<br/>
uniformly uproarious in shouting his<br/>
praises. Nearly all others were either si-<br/>
lent in shame and grief, or responded to<br/>
his speeches with hisses. It pains us<br/>
to pen these lines, but we think it<br/>
duty as faithful recorders requires it<br/>
at our hands, and we hope that we<br/>
may thus lead some who have power<br/>
with God in this eastern world, to<br/>
pray more importunately for the U.<br/>
S. We think we see clearly the over-<br/>
ruling hand of God in all her present<br/>
commotions, and that He is by them<br/>
teaching her lessons of wisdom that<br/>
will ultimately lead her out of the<br/>
wilderness into a Canaan of prosperity.<br/>
Her forty years of trials and afflictions<br/>
and war with the slave power have<br/>
nearly expired.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present king of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PHA CHAWN KLAU.
CHAPTER XII.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The different kingdoms of the<br/>
world may be likened to great do-<br/>
mains with tenants scattered here and<br/>
there, working to get a recompense,<br/>
that shall make a comfortable home<br/>
for themselves and families. The<br/>
ruler like the overseer, having a great<br/>
salary for his abilities in stimulating<br/>
labor, devising improvements, and<br/>
preventing disaster.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The problem is to see how much<br/>
production can be secured, how much<br/>
improvements made, what mode of<br/>
procedure will warrant the greatest<br/>
pay and secure the greatest benefits<br/>
from every stand-point. The subjects<br/>
must put confidence in the ruler, and<br/>
the ruler must be sure to win con-<br/>
fidence by superior foresight and un-<br/>
tiring watch care.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let us look at Siam in this view of<br/>
the subject. What are its capabilities<br/>
for production? It has no occasion<br/>
to blush and hang its head for its<br/>
meagerness. It can look up in the com-<br/>
pany of the most luxuriant countries<br/>
and look unabashed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Its resources to employ its people,<br/>
affording facilities to become rich<br/>
themselves while they are pouring<br/>
revenue into the public treasury, are<br/>
very abundant, ample for all the sub-<br/>
jects of the kingdom and affording<br/>
great inducements for emigration if<br/>
proper protection could be secured<br/>
from government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Look at the luxuriant valley of the<br/>
great rivers, yet but very partially im-<br/>
proved as a rice growing region. Look<br/>
at the banks of the broad stream<br/>
where might be cocoanuts enough to<br/>
supply all the east, with an oil that<br/>
has no equal, if it is properly cured.<br/>
Siamese coffee is quite equal to the<br/>
red Moka. It could raise pepper en-<br/>
ough for the world. And what shall<br/>
I say of its noble teak forests and rich<br/>
and varied rivers, and the facilities for<br/>
manufactories from the grass matting<br/>
that is now so extensively cultivated<br/>
to silk fabrics that are now partially<br/>
made and used and that might become<br/>
an article of extensive export? All<br/>
these resources speak decisively, come<br/>
and work and become rich and re-<br/>
spected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Do you ask for cotton? It can be<br/>
grown in any quantities and the Chi-<br/>
namen know how to grow it success-<br/>
fully, and now do so to some extent<br/>
in northern Siam. Encourage them<br/>
to come and make that whole region<br/>
productive to its full extent. Do you<br/>
ask for raw silk? Siam already has<br/>
quite a little commerce in this article,<br/>
and this little might be indefinitely<br/>
increased. Stimulus and encourage-<br/>
ment will multiply the product many-<br/>
fold. And the raw material which is<br/>
now exported might just as well be<br/>
manufactured here. The women al-<br/>
ready spin and weave many silk fab-<br/>
rics, and all the women in the land,<br/>
the Malayas perhaps at their head,<br/>
would welcome steam machinery<br/>
which might make Siam export silk<br/>
and cotton goods instead of now large-<br/>
ly importing and exporting the raw<br/>
material. Siam is wonderful in in-<br/>
ternal resources. Really it needs very<br/>
little but what it can produce in its<br/>
own domains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We need home protection and we<br/>
need emigration to employ success-<br/>
fully all the resources of the country.<br/>
Some of the resources can only be<br/>
successfully developed by the native<br/>
population, adapted to the climate<br/>
and adequate to meet its vicissitudes.<br/>
This is more particularly true in work-<br/>
ing the rich and varied mines of the<br/>
country. They must mostly be work-<br/>
ed by the natives who can endure the<br/>
heat, and bear the privations that they<br/>
must suffer when far from the bounds<br/>
of civilized life. We have a Califor-<br/>
nia in Siam. We only need enterprize<br/>
to give it a title to celebrity among<br/>
the nations. We also have lead, iron,<br/>
copper, and tin and all these mines<br/>
are partially worked. We only need<br/>
enterprise to make them extensively<br/>
productive and remunerative.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The revenue, as it is at present<br/>
managed, demoralizes the country,<br/>
takes away the stimulus to labor, de-<br/>
grades the people, and so depresses<br/>
them that the tendency is deteriora-<br/>
tive in almost every department of<br/>
business. I speak advisedly. I perhaps<br/>
ought to make an exception. The<br/>
import revenue has a salaried officer,<br/>
who is from the nation, who of all<br/>
people in the wide world delight in<br/>
equal rights and equal protection - an<br/>
American. It is a three per cent tax<br/>
on all the imports of the country, ex-<br/>
cept opium. We presume that this<br/>
tax is properly assessed and that the<br/>
people who import here have no right<br/>
to complain of the law, or resort to<br/>
subterfuges to evade it. If this of-<br/>
ficer be upright, straightforward, and<br/>
just, fulfilling the duties of his office,<br/>
without bribery or embezzlement, he<br/>
will show to native officials and the<br/>
government that honesty is the best<br/>
policy, even as a remunerator.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government greatly err in the<br/>
manner they pay their officials, and<br/>
the sources they collect their revenue.<br/>
A large proportion of their revenue is<br/>
from sources demoralizing and des-<br/>
tructive to the people. What are<br/>
opium and ardent spirits, and the<br/>
multiplied forms of gambling, and<br/>
theatres doing, but destroying the<br/>
country by piecemeal? And how can<br/>
the king speak out reprovingly and<br/>
with power when he is receiving great<br/>
revenue from these sources. And how<br/>
shall I speak it. Let a black cloud<br/>
shut out the light and murmuringly<br/>
frown while I say men, the heaven or-<br/>
dained protectors of beings, flesh of<br/>
their flesh, pay a revenue for the<br/>
privilege of debasing, and the rulers<br/>
receive the gain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Revenue prevents excess says the<br/>
conservative. A fine would be a great-<br/>
er protection; and then instead of<br/>
sanctioning evils that are degrading<br/>
and destructive, would be a frown up-<br/>
on the intemperate and make them<br/>
fear and desist, and so lead up to<br/>
temperance, abstinence and laudable<br/>
industry and virtuous action.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
And there is another habit connect-<br/>
ed with these objectionable revenues,<br/>
the farming out of the revenues. The<br/>
government receiving a stated sum<br/>
from the highest bidder, and the<br/>
farmer keeping the gain as the reward<br/>
of his own services. This induces a<br/>
great recklessness of public good, to<br/>
secure private interest. The farmer<br/>
wishes the people to buy, that he may<br/>
get gain. And the effort is an in-<br/>
crease of the evils that prostitute<br/>
humanity, instead of a gradual demi-<br/>
nation as would be the effect, if a<br/>
penalty, which always ought to ac-<br/>
company any act, that demoralizes<br/>
and injures the people of a nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There should be a judicious, efficient<br/>
well based government, encouraging<br/>
production, commerce and emigra-<br/>
tion, inciting the people to become<br/>
intelligent subjects, loving, learning,<br/>
and industry, and honoring and prac-<br/>
tising the right, and true in govern-<br/>
ment and religion. Live and let live<br/>
makes a nation thrive as well as a lit-<br/>
tle community. Oppression takes a-<br/>
way inducements to labor. The la-<br/>
borer is worthy of his hire, and if he<br/>
does not receive it he will not long<br/>
work.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
Anghin.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The best thing in this world is the<br/>
assurance of a better, and our more<br/>
immediate wants are food, raiment<br/>
and rest” says old Humphrey. Poor<br/>
old man. I can seem to see just in<br/>
what a barren district he must have<br/>
lived. How much digging and tugging<br/>
and toiling, to secure a potatoe patch.<br/>
And how his good old wife, picked<br/>
and carded and spun, sized, warped and<br/>
wove, bleached and cut and sewed<br/>
weary days, to get her good old man<br/>
a change of clean linen. And as for<br/>
sleep there was little of it to be had.<br/>
One of the three cardinal wants of the<br/>
present world, old Humphrey to the<br/>
contrary notwithstanding—for what<br/>
with patching old clothes and making<br/>
new ones, beside all the churning and<br/>
brewing and baking demanded in the<br/>
eating line, the old lady must have<br/>
been obliged to retire late and rise<br/>
early, and even while in bed have her<br/>
thoughts so full of her many cares, she<br/>
could secure but little quiet sleep.<br/>
Poor old people! no wonder eating,<br/>
sleeping, and clothing filled the entire<br/>
scope of old Humphrey’s vision.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To us of Anghin there is a new<br/>
order of being. Sleep do we? Yes<br/>
verily without one anxious care. And<br/>
the waves which lash the shore, make<br/>
for us a most soothing lullaby. And<br/>
what delicious sleep too! The cool<br/>
breeze from the open window comes<br/>
deliciously into our very faces as we<br/>
drink in full draughts of fresh air,<br/>
giving us health, vigor and new life<br/>
while tired nature seeks repose. No<br/>
fear of chills and colds. It is sea air,<br/>
and sea air is innocent of ill-doing.<br/>
Sleep certainly is an item of impor-<br/>
tance in Anghin life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Eating and clothes-wearing come in<br/>
for a small share of thought, and seem<br/>
of very little relative importance to<br/>
us who have so many higher enjoy-<br/>
ments!! O very sentimental you ex-<br/>
claim and take flights of imagination<br/>
at our expense! But what of your-<br/>
selves? “Are afraid of a little tossing<br/>
on old ocean which lays between us;<br/>
and so at evening drag yourselves<br/>
down to the river’s brink to get a<br/>
breath of pure fresh air for a few<br/>
moments saved from the toil of eating<br/>
and drinking and dressing to give you<br/>
an appetite for the next meager attempt<br/>
at the same business. Shame on you.<br/>
Come down here if you make a raft<br/>
of bamboos to float you here. You<br/>
need no great ceremony to accomplish<br/>
the feat. A river boat will bring you,<br/>
if you come inland at first, and keep<br/>
near shore as you come out into the<br/>
open sea. And once here you can<br/>
have it all your own way. And very<br/>
comfortable too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pray don’t transport all your house-<br/>
hold goods and all your wearing ap-<br/>
parel—Old Humphrey’s ideas to the<br/>
contrary notwithstanding—Eating and<br/>
dressing will be but a small part of<br/>
your business. Take things easy when<br/>
you first arrive. Give yourself up to<br/>
rest and sleep and that sort of elysium<br/>
pleasure which comes from commun-<br/>
ing with nature in her most natural<br/>
developements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Old ocean is a dear old fellow when<br/>
you have him at arm’s length. Listen<br/>
to his oratory in his various modes.<br/>
The full moon is coursing along the<br/>
heavens. Queen of half the world!<br/>
Old ocean feels her influence and<br/>
waxes loudly eloquent. We walk be-<br/>
fore him, noticing the majesty and<br/>
might of every movement, and allow<br/>
ourselves to be influenced by him in<br/>
turn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mean, narrow, contracted, inefficient,<br/>
shortsighted, shortlived, selfish influ-<br/>
ence! How contemptable and dispicable!<br/>
Be susceptible of being moved by ob-<br/>
jects in themselves worthy to stir<br/>
your whole being and arouse your<br/>
entire sympathies. And don’t be<br/>
afraid to speak out when you do feel.<br/>
Yes, old ocean, roll up your majestic<br/>
waves, from centre to circumference,<br/>
and as you are warmed into effort by<br/>
the queen who presides over you, ex-<br/>
pand yourself, seeking now this shore,<br/>
and now the one across the sea, and<br/>
as you go, swell your oratory as you<br/>
speak from the crested wave.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear you say “I have to serve<br/>
the nations. Use me at will. I’ll bear<br/>
on my broad shoulders burdens to<br/>
every clime, nor weary of my toil till<br/>
time is ended. I will be the obedient<br/>
servant of all who may command me,<br/>
having no respect of persons. Does<br/>
wrong seem to come from my placid<br/>
bosom? Remember it is not I, but the<br/>
winds and storms which compel me for<br/>
the moment to lose my balance, and<br/>
lay aside my placid bearing, but even<br/>
they cannot take away my dignity,<br/>
but sometimes make me even more<br/>
majestic, powerful, and influential. I<br/>
am of a very susceptible nature, no-<br/>
thing stoical dwells with me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But leaving the majesty of my own<br/>
power, dwell for a moment upon the<br/>
home I make for countless myriads<br/>
of happy beings, independent dwellers<br/>
in my domain, and who at the same<br/>
time minister to the comfort of ten<br/>
thousand times ten thousand and<br/>
thousands of thousands, who think<br/>
that eating is one of three great wants<br/>
of the countless multitudes of human<br/>
beings. Eat eat eat nor fear a fu-<br/>
ture want. Old ocean will live on and<br/>
ever as now crown your table with<br/>
rich and varied bounties. O ye nar-<br/>
row minded, selfish, thoughtless, head-<br/>
less mortals, who seem to think all<br/>
earth made for your use. Watch the<br/>
open sea and learn to serve your fel-<br/>
low men on an expensive noble plan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now by what magic ladder can I<br/>
bring you down, gentle reader, from<br/>
the sublime contemplations that ocean<br/>
has stirred to the selfish idea of mak-<br/>
ing the generous old fellow become<br/>
your humble servant. Raiment an<br/>
immediate want? you quite scout the<br/>
idea. Much of it is quite an incum-<br/>
brance. Your wish to walk out and<br/>
battle with the crested wave and like<br/>
the wrestlers of the Olympic games<br/>
you can do it best in the most simple<br/>
attire. Think of trailing dresses, sweep-<br/>
ing wide streets as the majestic wear-<br/>
er pursues her winding way. Nothing<br/>
seems to us just now more profoundly<br/>
ridiculous. Even the Bloomer dress<br/>
is quite too roomy. Let it be tight<br/>
and dis-encumbering and in graceful<br/>
movement free as the soaring bird.<br/>
You plunge amid the waves, now for-<br/>
ward, now backward, now hither and<br/>
thither, quite believing yourself re-<br/>
newed with the waves renewing in-<br/>
fluence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bathing certainly is one of the great<br/>
wants of life to us who have come to<br/>
the sea shore for recreation. And it<br/>
is certainly one of the most delightful<br/>
recreations in a hot country like Siam.<br/>
You need not go to Singapore, or Chi-<br/>
na, or England, or America to get<br/>
health. Come to Anghin and breathe<br/>
new life, get new inspiration, new<br/>
hopes and new impulses. You may<br/>
not get a great deal of eating, nor find<br/>
it much of a place to display fine dres-<br/>
ses. But believe me, there is a fine<br/>
house, delightfully situated for the<br/>
best view of sea scenery, and affording<br/>
the finest opportunity for sea breezes,<br/>
and sea bathing, and entire relaxation<br/>
from the thousand vexations of city<br/>
life. Come and see. And make up<br/>
your mind to adopt simple habits, and<br/>
be content with simple surroundings,<br/>
finding your comforts in nature's am-<br/>
ple stores for cultivated people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
EXCURSIONIST.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king returned from<br/>
Pitsannuloke on Wednesday the 7th<br/>
inst. It is reported that he visited<br/>
the royal temples in the old city of<br/>
Ayuthia on Monday, and distributed<br/>
the annual presents of yellow robes<br/>
and other goods to the Buddhist priests<br/>
in those monasteries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Officials who followed His Majesty,<br/>
report that the paddy fields at the<br/>
North are the most promising, that<br/>
though the water has already fal-<br/>
len 12 feet, it is still more than 40<br/>
feet deep in the river, and overflowing<br/>
the fields. It would hence appear that<br/>
steamboats may annually pass a long<br/>
way up this river in the months of Oc-<br/>
tober, November and December.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear that one of the Siamese<br/>
custom officers, at one of the stations<br/>
up the Bangkok-yai canal, has been<br/>
quite recently prosecuted for taking<br/>
unlawful rates of taxes on boats<br/>
of merchandize coming in from the<br/>
country. It appeared in the trial that<br/>
he had been doing this six or eight<br/>
months, and that the whole amount of<br/>
his extortions was not less than twen-<br/>
ty catties, equal to 1600 Ticals. We<br/>
are informed that for all this he was<br/>
only sentenced to receive 50 lashes<br/>
without further imprisonment and<br/>
without making any restitution to any<br/>
party. Can it be possible that this is<br/>
a fair sample of the justice that is ad-<br/>
ministered by one of the most unligh-<br/>
tened courts of this city? We cannot<br/>
but hope to learn that there has been<br/>
a great mistake made in reporting this<br/>
case to us. But if not, then we feel<br/>
compelled to say that such scoundrels<br/>
have little to fear from any laws in<br/>
Siam, and they may revel in their ex-<br/>
tortions, and highway robbing, as their<br/>
backs only will have to smart a little<br/>
for it, and only that not oftener,<br/>
probably, than once in fifty times. We<br/>
have much reason for thinking that<br/>
this crime is very prevalent at the<br/>
many toll-stations on the thorough-<br/>
fares coming into this metropolis. In<br/>
our Siamese Recorder, we have re-<br/>
ported many complaints of such ex-<br/>
tortions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The LORD MAYOR.—-Why has this<br/>
great city had no Lord Mayor during<br/>
the last ten months? Soon after the<br/>
death of the late incumbent, we were<br/>
told by those whom we had reason to<br/>
think were correctly informed, that<br/>
the vacancy would soon be filled by<br/>
the Governor of Korat; and from that<br/>
time till now, whenever we have in-<br/>
quired after the Mayor-elect we have<br/>
heard substantially the same report—-<br/>
to wit, that the Governor of Korat is surely<br/>
coming when he can close up his<br/>
affairs in that distant province, and<br/>
that he will then become Mayor of this<br/>
city, and that a thorough one will be<br/>
be. Now this is certainly a very<br/>
strange state of our city government.<br/>
It strikes us that it is indicative more<br/>
of the shiftlessness and weakness of<br/>
old age, than of the thriftiness and<br/>
strength of vigorous manhood. What<br/>
would be thought of any of our great<br/>
western cities, should they fail thus to<br/>
supply the vacancy of a Mayor?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late Lord Mayor was a very im-<br/>
portant spoke in the wheel of the Inter-<br/>
national Court, being, if we mistake<br/>
not, one of the triune lords who alone<br/>
composed the Court. One of the re-<br/>
maining two is quite infirm and can-<br/>
not afford much aid to it. The other,<br/>
though one of the most worthy Judge's<br/>
of whom we have any acquaintance in<br/>
Siam, is not clothed with half the pow-<br/>
er he needs to execute justice. Great<br/>
responsibilities and most onerous cares<br/>
are devolved upon him, but his hands<br/>
are tied, his feet fettered by the<br/>
abominable customs of respecting rank<br/>
in the administration of justice. Offen-<br/>
ders who have a high nobleman or<br/>
lord to whom they belong, can effec-<br/>
tually shield themselves under their<br/>
wings from arrest by the sheriffs of the<br/>
International Court. Take the follow-<br/>
ing for an illustration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We once had a Siamese cook indebt-<br/>
ed to us for fifty tical. He was suspec-<br/>
ted of stealing jewels from a Siamese<br/>
woman in our employ, estimated at 80<br/>
ticals. We intimated to him our fears<br/>
that he was the thief. He most solemn-<br/>
ly averred that he was innocent. But<br/>
in the course of two or three days he<br/>
and his family fled from us at night,<br/>
leaving nothing but a few empty boxes.<br/>
In one of them was found the identical<br/>
cotton in which the jewels had been<br/>
kept by the owner. We heard of his<br/>
being seen daily, hanging about the re-<br/>
sidence of his sister, who was a chief wife<br/>
of a nobleman connected with a Prime<br/>
Minister. We immediately reported<br/>
the case to the International Judge, re-<br/>
questing him to arrest the man and<br/>
bring him to trial, promising that we<br/>
would furnish his officers with guides<br/>
to aid them. He undertook the case.<br/>
Those officers were out in search of<br/>
the man many days and even weeks,<br/>
as we were informed, but found him<br/>
not. And during all that time, we have<br/>
good reason to believe, he was still a-<br/>
bout the place, being seen occasionally<br/>
by some of our servants. At length it<br/>
was reported that the rascal had gone<br/>
to Legore his native place, and that it<br/>
would be useless to pursue him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now such cases are of common oc-<br/>
currance. The wing of some prin-<br/>
cipal chief shelters the culprit, and hence<br/>
they cannot be found. Is not this<br/>
an abominable state of our city gov-<br/>
ernment? We would beg that His<br/>
Majesty the king insist upon the ster-<br/>
nest justice being administered at the<br/>
International court if at no other. Let<br/>
the judges, on whom devolves the re-<br/>
sponsibility, be clothed with full pow-<br/>
er to arrest even in the palaces of the<br/>
highest princes and lords without any<br/>
improper cringing to their high dignity;<br/>
and withal let these magistrates be<br/>
paid well for the discharge of their<br/>
high and solemn responsibilities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last issue we barely threw<br/>
out the thought that there needs to be<br/>
several public avenues from the river<br/>
to the new street Charoong Kroong.<br/>
We beg to expand that thought a lit-<br/>
tle more at this time. That street is<br/>
so far in the rear of the residences of<br/>
the Europeans in that quarter of the<br/>
city, so far from the river, and so<br/>
destitute of any proper openings to it<br/>
by land, that strangers coming into<br/>
the city know not where to find it.<br/>
There are, it is true, some narrow and<br/>
tortuous foot paths leading to it, and<br/>
one of them passes through the Bap-<br/>
tist Mission premises, greatly to the<br/>
annoyance of the mission. We beg to<br/>
say that this state of that new street<br/>
is far from being honorable to the<br/>
character of the city which professes<br/>
to be the capital of Young Siam.<br/>
There should be at least four wide<br/>
avenues passing from the river direct-<br/>
ly to that street, and these furnished,<br/>
at the expense of the city government,<br/>
with suitable landings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears from the Singapore<br/>
Daily Straits Times that the trial of<br/>
the Master and Mate of the schooner<br/>
Eria for barratry has come to an<br/>
abortive issue from the failure of the<br/>
jury to agree on a verdict and the<br/>
case was remanded till the next ses-<br/>
sion three months hence. The Daily<br/>
Times says.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the Criminal Session which<br/>
has just closed, we have witnessed<br/>
the discharge of two juries, in most<br/>
important cases, without their arriving<br/>
at a verdict. The fact must cause very<br/>
serious reflection to those who are<br/>
concerned for the prompt administra-<br/>
tion of justice. Of the two trials that<br/>
have thus come to an abortive issue<br/>
one involved the alternations of life and<br/>
death, and the other, besides the consi-<br/>
derable commercial interests indirectly<br/>
said to be affected, placed two men in<br/>
jeopardy of a punishment only one<br/>
remove from death itself. The pris-<br/>
oners in both these cases are, innocent<br/>
or guilty, now subjected to three<br/>
months of the torture of suspen[?]-e<br/>
which, but for the miserable want of<br/>
accord in the jurors, would have been<br/>
spared them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are credibly informed too, that in<br/>
both the Buket Timah murder trial<br/>
and that of the master and mate of<br/>
the Eria for barratry, there were<br/>
men empanneiled who had never<br/>
served as jurors before; and surely,<br/>
though men must make a beginning in<br/>
all things, such important cases as<br/>
these should not have been chosen to<br/>
afford the first lesson of a juryman’s<br/>
duties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following we find in the Singa-<br/>
pore Daily Times of the 21st ult.<br/>
copied from the Pioneer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Strait settlement act, recently<br/>
passed at home, removing the ad-<br/>
ministration of the Straits from the<br/>
government of India, and placing it<br/>
under the Minister for the Colonies,<br/>
will, we are informed, come into oper-<br/>
ation on the 1st of January next. The<br/>
measure will produce a saving in the<br/>
military expenditure to the extent<br/>
of the garrison furnished by the In-<br/>
dian Forces to the settlement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE last issue of the LONDON AND<br/>
CHINA EXPRESS contained an article on<br/>
the proceedings of the French in Siam,<br/>
and more especially on those connected<br/>
with a proposed canal across the Isth-<br/>
mus of Krah. Our readers are proba-<br/>
bly aware that this project has been for<br/>
some years before the British public,<br/>
having been agitated as far back as 1857,<br/>
and the Siamese Government in 1862<br/>
gave a concession for ten years to Mr.<br/>
D. K. Mason, who is now endeavoring<br/>
to get up a Company with the necessary<br/>
capital, and we have reason to believe,<br/>
with every prospect of success. The<br/>
French application is consequently rather<br/>
late in the day, and although we are told<br/>
that the Directors have taken temporary<br/>
offices in Paris, it can hardly be expected<br/>
that the Siamese Government will break<br/>
faith with Mr. Mason unless much more<br/>
substantial advantages are to be obtained<br/>
than it would appear are submitted in<br/>
the prospectus. We are informed that<br/>
on one point alone the demands of the<br/>
French Company are so excessive, as<br/>
compared with the English, that we are<br/>
not surprised at some hesitation on the<br/>
part of the Siamese, even if a prior en-<br/>
gagement had not been contracted; for<br/>
whereas the latter state “the land re-<br/>
quired for the railway will have a boun-<br/>
dary of one English statute mile in<br/>
breadth throughout,” the latter stipulate<br/>
for “twenty kilometers (12½ English<br/>
miles) of unoccupied ground on each<br/>
side of the canal in its full length” or<br/>
for a belt of twenty five miles broad ac-<br/>
ross an important part of the Siamese<br/>
territory. In other words, the Govern-<br/>
ment at Bangkok, are modestly asked to<br/>
appropriate the cession of about 1,100<br/>
square miles in a country said to abound<br/>
in Tin, coal and valuable woods, with a<br/>
soil of unrivalled fertility. For our part<br/>
we have always had our doubts as to the<br/>
utility of the Isthmus of Krah scheme,<br/>
and are prepared to advocate in prefer-<br/>
ence a railway from Rangoon to Bang-<br/>
kok, as affording greater advantages for<br/>
communication between India and China,<br/>
and greater facilities of construction than<br/>
the Burmah and West China route as<br/>
advocated by Mr.____ __________<br/>
but then our opinion may be considered<br/>
as influencod by the supposed injury the<br/>
railway or canal may inflict on the town<br/>
of Singapore. Be this as it may—-we,<br/>
meanwhile,fail to see the the advantage the<br/>
Siamese Government is to derive from<br/>
abandonment of Mr. Mason's project,<br/>
with its moderate stipulations, in order<br/>
to adopt a more ambitious scheme, which<br/>
entails the cession of a large portion of<br/>
territory without any compensating be-<br/>
nefit to that nation. It is immaterial by<br/>
which Company the project, whether<br/>
railway or canal, is carried through, so<br/>
long as the conditions, on which the ces-<br/>
sion is made, are such as to prevent all<br/>
attempts at monopoly or exclusiveness,<br/>
and do not concede to others advantages<br/>
which are not to be enjoyed by all. It<br/>
will, therefore, behoove the Siamese Gov-<br/>
ernment, before confirming the charter<br/>
of either of the schemes, to make such<br/>
stipulations as will protect the general<br/>
interests of all concerned, of itself, of<br/>
the promoters, but above all, of the pup-<br/>
lic.-—SINGAPORE DAILY TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A word with President
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Johnson.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Does Mr. Johnson know that by his<br/>
indecorous language and injudicious con-<br/>
duct he is seriously increasing the diffi-<br/>
culties under which the country already<br/>
staggers? If he does not, it would be<br/>
well if some judicious friend—-if he has<br/>
any such left-—would tell him this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With this desire that the loyal represen-<br/>
tatives of the southern states shall be with-<br/>
out further delay admitted to their seats<br/>
in Congress, it is known that we, with a<br/>
considerable and most respectable part of<br/>
the Republican party, strongly sympa-<br/>
thize. But this result is to be brought<br/>
about by reasoning, by persuasion, by<br/>
proving to the country that such a course<br/>
is the wisest; it cannot be attained by the<br/>
course which Mr. Johnson has so unwisely<br/>
chosen to adopt and follow. It would be<br/>
well for him to know that he is very fast<br/>
making himself personally odious. The<br/>
loyal people of the northern states, those<br/>
who stood by the Union when it was at-<br/>
tacked by rebels, see with a dissatisfac-<br/>
tion and alarm which is no longer conceal-<br/>
ed, that the President whom their votes<br/>
elevated to his position surrounds him-<br/>
self, by his own choice apparently, with<br/>
men like Tom Florence, Garrett Davis,<br/>
Saulsbury and others who, like these,<br/>
during the war never concealed their<br/>
sympathies with treason. They see Mr.<br/>
Johnson, further, removing from office<br/>
men of ability, and of undoubted fidelity<br/>
to the Union, and putting in their places<br/>
not war democrats, nor Republicans who<br/>
agree with his views on the question of<br/>
representation, but copperheads, sym-<br/>
pathizers with treason, persons whose<br/>
course during the war made them forever<br/>
hateful to the loyal people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They have seen him but lately, in<br/>
Louisiana, violate his own often declared<br/>
policy in regard to the southern states,<br/>
and violate it in favor of boastful rebels,<br/>
and to the injury of men who were known<br/>
as Union men; and they ask why, if the<br/>
law is to be stretched, if what the Presi-<br/>
dent asserts to be the true policy is to be<br/>
violated, why is it only in the interest of<br/>
men who are notorious as haters of liberty<br/>
and Union? They have seen him pardon<br/>
many of the most flagrant traitors-—such<br/>
men as Mayor Monroe, men of a temper<br/>
which makes them bad citizens, and whom<br/>
it would certainly be more judicious<br/>
to leave unpardoned. Finally, they are<br/>
alarmed and hurt at the indecorous lang-<br/>
uage which Mr. Johnson uses towards<br/>
Congress; they are disgusted to hear him<br/>
on every occasion denouncing Congress,<br/>
among whose members are many men of<br/>
spotless honor and long tried loyalty, as<br/>
traitors, rebels, usurpers, "hanging on<br/>
the government." They hear him speak<br/>
of "a subsidized press," and they ask,<br/>
"Who subsidizes it, when Mr. Johnson<br/>
has all the patronage?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If all this only made him unpopular, it<br/>
would perhaps matter little. But it is does<br/>
and has done more than that. It has<br/>
aroused such a storm of indignation<br/>
through the country, it has so driven<br/>
people's blood to their heads, that they<br/>
no longer stop to reason, but include in<br/>
one strong condemnation not only Mr.<br/>
Johnson, but every measure and policy<br/>
which he favors. Affairs have come to<br/>
the pass, that the most effective argument<br/>
which can be brought before the people<br/>
against any public measure or policy, is<br/>
the simple statement that Mr. Johnson<br/>
wishes or supports it. No matter how<br/>
cogent the reasons, for instance, for the<br/>
admission of loyal southern representa-<br/>
tives to Congress, no matter how unwise<br/>
and untenable the grounds of opposition<br/>
to this measure, its opponents need only<br/>
point to Mr. Johnson as its chief advocate,<br/>
and the indignation of the public with<br/>
him suffices to condemn also the policy<br/>
which is so unfortunate as to have his<br/>
favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His language and acts show not a wise,<br/>
temperate and conciliatory spirit, not a<br/>
desire to produce harmony, and to effect<br/>
his ends with the general concurrence of<br/>
the nation; they show a petulant spirit, a<br/>
harsh temper, whose inevitable effect,<br/>
when used towards intelligent people,<br/>
jealous of dictation from their public ser-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
vants, is to arouse a passionate feeling of<br/>
hostility and opposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not only does the President thus give<br/>
strength to those who oppose the adminis-<br/>
sion of all the states to Congress; un-<br/>
scrupulous men on that side are but too<br/>
ready to take advantage of his mistakes<br/>
and ill-temper, to excite still more op-<br/>
position against the measures he favors.<br/>
One after another, we notice, Republi-<br/>
can journals which formerly supported<br/>
the admission of the states, have fallen<br/>
off, under the pressure of the general<br/>
indignation and passion. THE EVENING<br/>
POST is not accustomed to make such con-<br/>
cessions to unreasoning prejudice, and it<br/>
will continue now to urge what seems to<br/>
it the only sound and safe policy, just as<br/>
it did when it was denounced for oppos-<br/>
ing the legal-tender bill—-which is now<br/>
seen to be just as mischievous as we at<br/>
the time declared it to be; or when it<br/>
was again denounced for demanding the<br/>
removal of General McClellan-—which,<br/>
but a few months later, was seen by all<br/>
loyal men to be most necessary. But it<br/>
has a right to remonstrate when the course<br/>
of the chief supporter of a just and neces-<br/>
sary measure makes that measure hateful<br/>
to the people; when the great influence<br/>
of the Executive, which might and ought<br/>
to be wisely directed to unite all good<br/>
men, by judicious action, upon a wise<br/>
policy, only increases the opposition to<br/>
such a policy, and tends to unite the nation<br/>
against it.—-THE EVENING POST.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Showing him a Miracle.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Renan having said, in his "Life of<br/>
Jesus," that the proper way of proving the<br/>
reality of a miracle is to show one, a pam-<br/>
phleteer "shows" him one in a letter<br/>
"Upon the Establishment of the Christian<br/>
Religion," as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR—-Permit me to-day, to draw your<br/>
attention again to the establishment of the<br/>
Christian religion, a fact upon which we<br/>
naturally differ in opinion. Like you, I<br/>
have striven to identify its cause with the<br/>
mere forces of man. I have failed in my<br/>
endeavor. The supernatural, then, has<br/>
been the only conducting thread which<br/>
has helped me to escape from the labyrinth,<br/>
where I see you continually seeking to<br/>
rectify yourself, without ever doing it, and<br/>
condemned to escape therefrom only when<br/>
you shall have proved that there is nothing<br/>
miraculous in the establishment of Chris-<br/>
tianity. Pardon this little digression. I<br/>
go straight to the work. There is a reli-<br/>
gion called the Christian, whose founder<br/>
was Jesus, named the Christ. The reli-<br/>
gion, which has lasted eighteen centuries,<br/>
and which calls itself the natural develop-<br/>
ment of that Judaism which ascends near<br/>
to the cradle of the world, had the Apostles<br/>
for its first propagators. When these men<br/>
wished to establish it they had for adver-<br/>
saries:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}The national pride of the Jews;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The implacable hatred of the Sanhedrim;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The brutal despotism of the Roman<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The railleries and attacks of the philoso-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The libertinism and caste-spirit of the<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The savage and cruel ignorance of the<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The fagot and bloody games of the circus.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}They had an enemy in<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every miser;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every debauched man;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every drunkard;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every thief;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every murderer;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every proud man;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every slanderer;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Every liar.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Not one of the vices, in fact, which<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To combat so many enemies, and sur-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their ignorance;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their poverty;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their obscurity;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their weakness;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their fewness;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The Cross.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
emperors;<br/>
phers;<br/>
pagan priests;<br/>
masses;<br/>
abuse our poor humanity which did not<br/>
constitute itself their adversary.<br/>
mount so many obstacles, they had only
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If you had been their cotemporary at the<br/>
moment when they began their work, and<br/>
Peter had said to you: "Join with us, for<br/>
we are going to the conquest of the world;<br/>
before our word pagan temples shall<br/>
crumble and their idols shall fall upon<br/>
their faces; the philosophers shall be con-<br/>
vinced of folly; from the throne of Cæsar<br/>
shall hurl the Roman eagle, and in its<br/>
place we shall plant the Cross; we shall be<br/>
the teachers of the world; the ignorant<br/>
and the learned will declare themselves<br/>
our disciples!"—bearing him speak thus,<br/>
you would have said, "Be silent, imbecile!"<br/>
And as you are tolerant from nature and<br/>
principle, you would have defended him<br/>
before the Sanhedrim, and have counseled<br/>
it to shut up the fisherman of Bethsaida<br/>
and his companions in a madhouse. And<br/>
yet, sir, what you would have thought a<br/>
notable madness is to-day a startling real-<br/>
ity, with which I leave you face to face.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
N. Y. OBSERVER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Termination of the Rebellion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About four o’clock yesterday after-<br/>
noon, the Steamer ‘Yai-nan-tskyia’ arriv-<br/>
ed in Rangoon, having on board the two<br/>
Mengoon rebel princes and nearly two<br/>
hundred followers. It appears that this<br/>
vessel was making her way down the<br/>
river, when the King’s two steamers<br/>
were passing upwards. The rebels, it is<br/>
said, fired on the leading vessel, which<br/>
was the ‘Meahnant aykia,’ or ‘Star of<br/>
Burmah,’ hulling her with shot two or<br/>
three times, and from which it was sup-<br/>
posed she would sink. The two vessels<br/>
in company opened fire on the rebels<br/>
and killed and wounded some five or six<br/>
people. The fight lasted for nearly an<br/>
hour, when they parted, the King's<br/>
vessels ascending the river, the rebel<br/>
steamer descending. The latter vessel<br/>
came down to Thayetmyo, where the<br/>
princes met the Chief Commissioner and<br/>
obtained his permission to proceed to<br/>
Rangoon. A small party of Police was<br/>
placed on board the vessel, which left<br/>
Thayetmyo on Saturday last and arrived<br/>
here late yesterday afternoon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Further particulars of the engagement<br/>
we shall hope to gather for our Saturday's<br/>
issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy therefore to chronicle<br/>
the fact of the termination of the rebel-<br/>
lion. The river is now open the whole<br/>
way from Rangoon to Mandalay. Trade<br/>
must revive immediately. Persons who<br/>
have been deterred from proceeding to<br/>
the Capital, owing to the disturbances,<br/>
can now proceed in perfect safety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Padeing prince, who was reported<br/>
to have attacked the royal city is also<br/>
about making his submission to the king.<br/>
He will perhaps be forgiven, as he may<br/>
pretend that he was only fighting against<br/>
the rebels. Every thing therefore is in<br/>
the most promising condition for the<br/>
complete pacification of the whole of<br/>
Burman proper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile the two princes who have<br/>
come for refuge to this city, are to re-<br/>
ceive a little British hospitality. They<br/>
will, of course, by visited as objects of<br/>
natural curiosity, by many residents of<br/>
the station. There will be only one<br/>
drawback. The recollection of that<br/>
bloody head, which was paraded through<br/>
the king's palace on the morning of the<br/>
outbreak. That head was the head of<br/>
the late Heir Apparent to the throne of<br/>
Burmah and the Royal brother of His<br/>
present Majesty. That horrid deed, and<br/>
other bloody deeds were done by these<br/>
young princes. They have played a<br/>
bold game for a throne and have lost.<br/>
It is not at all likely however that the<br/>
king will make any demand for the sur-<br/>
render of these fugitive sons.-—RANGOON<br/>
TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Conservative and Radical
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WASHINGTON, August 8, 1866.
To THE EDITOR OF THE INDEPENDENT:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two modes of reconstructing the rebel<br/>
states are proposed. One by the President,<br/>
which insists that rebellion disqualifies no<br/>
state from an equal participation in the<br/>
government, and that members from all<br/>
the insurrectionary states have a right to<br/>
take their seats in Congress; and, lastly,<br/>
that no power can lawfully interfere with<br/>
the state governments, or for the Union,<br/>
except that which is invested in himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The other, by Congress, demands a<br/>
practical protection to all the citizens of<br/>
the United States, in all the territory<br/>
over which the banner of freedom waves,<br/>
to every natural right, and especially to<br/>
“life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap-<br/>
piness.” To secure that protection, the<br/>
act for the continuance of the Freedmen’s<br/>
Bureau and the Civil Rights act were<br/>
passed over the President’s veto, which<br/>
is a practical guaranty of the last propo-<br/>
sition. The first mode is called CONSER-<br/>
VATIVE, the other RADICAL. Let us see.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The practical working of the first pro-<br/>
posal is presented in the late massacre at<br/>
New Orleans. A rebel mayor is authoriz-<br/>
ed to disperse, by an organized force un-<br/>
der the rebel flag, the delegates of the<br/>
people of the state, elected under the<br/>
the proclamation of the governor of the<br/>
state, to revise the constitution of the<br/>
state, which is executed by the cold-<br/>
blooded butchery of at least one hun-<br/>
dred loyal men; the governor of the state<br/>
is deposed, and a rebel general placed in<br/>
authority, and a major-general of the<br/>
United States—-SHERIDAN-—ordered to<br/>
report to him by the President. Which<br/>
will the people favor? The Conservative,<br/>
or the Radical?—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thoughts By The way.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I know it to be my duty—-BUT.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Selfishness is its own HANGMAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Think MUCH if you would think WELL.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no justice in sin, and no sin in<br/>
justice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Human reason is not GOD, as some<br/>
PRETEND.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The less a man makes of himself the more<br/>
of a man he is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Care for what you say, or what you say<br/>
will make you care.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The only proper thing to do with the<br/>
DEVIL is to RESIST him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Better be CALLED a fool for doing right<br/>
than be a fool in doing wrong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who is at war with his NEIGHBOR<br/>
cannot be at peace with HIMSELF.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Better be honorable and be despised than<br/>
to be despicable and be abhorred.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The man who trumpets his own fame<br/>
will soon have no fame to trumpet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The religion that is always searching for
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“A HOPE” is a HOPELESS religion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lie may respect a SMALL THING, but<br/>
there is no such thing as a SMALL LIE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GOOD WORKS are essential to true religion<br/>
not as MERITORIOUS, but as EVIDENCE<br/>
of the reality and glory of such religion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Commodore Vanderbilt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Cornelius Vanderbilt, the Rail-<br/>
road Prince of New York and one of the<br/>
greatest capitalists of the country, is the<br/>
son of a farmer of Staten Island, at<br/>
which place Cornelius was born on the<br/>
27th of May, 1791. His father establish-<br/>
ed a ferry between the Island and New<br/>
York, and "The Commodore," as he is<br/>
familiarly styled, commenced life as a<br/>
deck hand. At the age of sixteen he<br/>
had accumulated enough by his industry<br/>
and economy to purchase a boat of his<br/>
own, and continued the life of a boatmen<br/>
until 1814, when he married and moved<br/>
to New York. During his boating career,<br/>
young Vanderbilt earned the best reputa-<br/>
tion for himself by his promptness and<br/>
decision. Whatever he promised to do<br/>
was done, and done well. He rendered<br/>
good service during the war of 1812,<br/>
carrying dispatches to the forts about the<br/>
harbor. Early in the fall of 1813, the<br/>
British fleet tried to force an entrance to<br/>
the port, and was repulsed by the forts<br/>
at Sandy Hook. The forts were howev-<br/>
er, much disabled, and is absolutely<br/>
necessary that they should be reinforced.<br/>
It was blowing a gale from the southwest,<br/>
with a heavy sea on, and no one could be<br/>
found who would venture the voyage.<br/>
At last Vanderbilt was applied to, and he<br/>
immediately guaranteed to land the of-<br/>
ficers, and he did, although the whole<br/>
party got pretty well soursed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About 1817, Vanderbilt first turned<br/>
his attention to steam, which he saw was<br/>
destined to be the motive power on water.<br/>
In that year he entered the service of<br/>
Thomas Gibbons, proprietor of a line of<br/>
steamboats from Philadelphia to New<br/>
York. He remained in Mr. Gibbons'<br/>
employment for twelve years, when de-<br/>
clining some very tempting offers made<br/>
by his old employer, he started once<br/>
more on his own account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being now thoroughly acquainted with<br/>
the working of steam, he set zealously to<br/>
work, and, bringing all the energy and<br/>
perseverance to bear which had aided<br/>
him in his early days, he soon laid down<br/>
the foundation of a vast fortune. He<br/>
established a line of steamboats on the<br/>
Hudson, one on the Sound, and several<br/>
others. He had to contend against rich<br/>
corporations and strong monopolies, but<br/>
his energy and knowledge enabled him<br/>
to surmount them all. His plan was to<br/>
work popularly, that is to afford the trav-<br/>
elling public the greatest possible accom-<br/>
modation at the lowest price. His steam-<br/>
ers were all built under his own im-<br/>
mediate inspection, and were celebrat-<br/>
ed for speed and the elegant style of<br/>
outfit. His vessels are indeed, noted for<br/>
speed, and the Vanderbilt, built for the<br/>
Havre route in 1855-6, made the short-<br/>
est run to Europe on record.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1865, Vanderbilt sold all his steam-<br/>
ships and invested most of his capital<br/>
now grown to an enormous size, in rail-<br/>
road stock, of which he was already a<br/>
large holder. He owns an immense<br/>
quantity of city stock, and at one time<br/>
was reported to own almost all the stock<br/>
of the Harlem road.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Vanderbilt is a bluff, finelooking<br/>
old gentleman of about seventy, hale<br/>
and hearty and enjoying in the fall of his<br/>
life some of the good things of earth<br/>
which he has earned by a well-spent<br/>
spring-time. He lives in the city, and<br/>
owns a country seat, besides a house on<br/>
Staten Island. His fortune is immense,<br/>
estimated as high as ten millions.-—N. Y.<br/>
CITIZEN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The African Lion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This lion is very much afraid of any<br/>
thing that looks like a trap. This makes<br/>
it very difficult to catch him alive, or to<br/>
entrap him at all. But it gives people<br/>
the advantage of him in other ways.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By making something that has the ap-<br/>
pearance of a trap, they are able to keep<br/>
lions off, on dark nights, when without it<br/>
there would be great danger ; and Mr.<br/>
Livingstone mentions some cases where<br/>
the lives of domestic animals, and even<br/>
men, were saved in this way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One night, when the oxen were left<br/>
tied to the wagon, and a sheep tied to a<br/>
tree, two lions came up to within three<br/>
yards of them; but, seeing the ropes<br/>
that the animals were tied with, they<br/>
concluded that it wasn't safe to leap; and<br/>
the first thing that any of the party knew,<br/>
the lions were standing there roaring with<br/>
disappointment. At another time, one<br/>
of the party was sleeping on the ground,<br/>
between two natives. They had built a<br/>
fire at their feet, and had tied an ox to a<br/>
bush close by. All were thoroughly tired,<br/>
and lay sound asleep. Their fire had<br/>
burnt down, and was now almost out. A<br/>
lion, encouraged by the darkness, came<br/>
within an easy jump of the sleepers.<br/>
Gladly would he have feasted that night<br/>
on human flesh ; but there stood the ox,<br/>
haltered to a bush! The lion thought<br/>
himself too cunning to be caught in that<br/>
trap.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was not quite satisfied, however,<br/>
to go without his supper. This he showed<br/>
by roaring at the top of his voice. When<br/>
the men roused up, he went off to a knoll<br/>
at a little distance, but out of gun-shot,<br/>
and "roared all night, and continued his<br/>
growling as the party moved off daylight<br/>
next morning."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"By accident, a horse belonging to an<br/>
English gentleman, ran away," says the<br/>
writer; "but was stopped by the bridle<br/>
catching a stump. Here he remained a<br/>
prisoner two days, and, when found, the<br/>
whole space around was marked by the<br/>
foot-prints of lions. They had evidently<br/>
been afraid to attack the haltered horse,<br/>
thinking that it might be a trap."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most common way of hunting the<br/>
lion is with dogs and guns. When one is<br/>
surprised or over taken by the dogs, he<br/>
stands still, with his face to the enemy,<br/>
as if to say, "Come on, I'm ready for<br/>
you!" or moves off slowly, walking for-<br/>
ward, or side-ways, or backward, as the<br/>
case may be; only being careful to keep<br/>
his head toward the nearest dog, and his<br/>
eyes upon all the rest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dogs know better than to attack<br/>
him in front, and he knows better than<br/>
to allow them to attack him in the rear,<br/>
if whirling, snarling, snapping, and strik-<br/>
ing can prevent it; so that, as a general<br/>
thing, there is no pitched battle between<br/>
the dogs and the lion, and no lives lost,<br/>
unless some young dog, or one that is a<br/>
new hand at the business, allows himself<br/>
to come within reach of the lion's teeth,<br/>
or his paw; in which case, as all the old<br/>
dogs know, death to him is certain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The lion, when thus stopped by the<br/>
dogs, is said be at bay. This is usually<br/>
the way matters stand when the hunters<br/>
come up. They then have a good op-<br/>
portunity to take deliberate aim—only<br/>
they must be careful not to kill a dog—<br/>
and the rifle-ball or balls, if necessary,<br/>
soon put an end to the exciting scene.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the native tribes have a sin-<br/>
gular way of killing the lion. There is a<br/>
kind of caterpillar, about half an inch<br/>
long, that they have found to be very<br/>
poisonous to the flesh. These they care-<br/>
fully gather and crush; then place the<br/>
slimy matter on their arrow-points, and<br/>
dry it in the sun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now they are ready to attack a lion<br/>
whenever they can get the right kind of<br/>
a chance. They know that, when he has<br/>
made a full meal, he may be found at no<br/>
great distance, lying asleep; and then<br/>
they have a good opportunity to get the<br/>
advantage of him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two active men follow up his track,<br/>
so slily that he is not disturbed. They<br/>
approach to within a few feet of him.<br/>
One draws a bow, with all his might,<br/>
holding the point of the arrow close to<br/>
the lion's side; while the other leans to-<br/>
ward the sleeper, holding up a skin cloak<br/>
with both hands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All is now ready; clang goes the bow-<br/>
string, and clap goes the skin cloak right<br/>
over the lion's head. He springs to his<br/>
feet, surprised and bewildered, and<br/>
leaps away, in the greatest fright. There<br/>
is no necessity for their following him;<br/>
for they know that he will soon die from<br/>
the effects of the poison.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When preparing the poison, they are<br/>
very careful not to get any of it into a<br/>
scratch or other sore place upon their<br/>
hands, and they clean their finger-nails<br/>
with the greatest care when done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If any of the matter gets into a wound,<br/>
however small, "the agony is so great,<br/>
says Dr. L., "that the person cuts him-<br/>
self, calls for his mother's milk, as if he<br/>
were returned in idea to childhood again,<br/>
or flies from human habitations a raging<br/>
maniac."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The effects on the lion are equally<br/>
terrible; he is heard moaning in distress,<br/>
and becomes furious, biting and tearing<br/>
the ground in rage."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tribes that take this plan of kill-<br/>
ing the lion are Bushmen, a very active<br/>
and bold people that live in the southern<br/>
part of Africa. I will tell you more about<br/>
them at another time. Lions are scarce<br/>
and very cowardly in their country; but<br/>
in some other parts, where the people<br/>
are more afraid of them, they are more<br/>
numerous, and bolder, and oftener heard<br/>
to roar.—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Comical Scene in Church.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sabbath last, in one of our prominent<br/>
broad street churches, the closeness of the<br/>
atmosphere produced an almost irresisti-<br/>
ble feeling of drowsiness among many of<br/>
the congregation. Of the number who<br/>
found it impossible to deny the drowsy god<br/>
was one of our most successful business<br/>
men, whose honest efforts to throw off the<br/>
somnific influence he was under were wit-<br/>
nessed by several lookers on. At last he<br/>
succumbed; his eyes shut and failed to<br/>
come open again, and his head began to<br/>
nod to this and that neighbor quite famil-<br/>
iarly. Presently the sleeper's head slowly<br/>
bent toward it owner's wife, and continued<br/>
to sag, sag, sag, in that direction, until a<br/>
delicate sprig on my lady's hat pointed<br/>
directly into the ear of the snoozing hus-<br/>
band.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One more lurch of the head on "that<br/>
line" would cause the tapering sprig to<br/>
enter that delicate organ, and several per-<br/>
sons in the gallery were giving breathless<br/>
attention to the scene, fully anticipating<br/>
an extraordinary denouement when the<br/>
connection between the ear and the sprig<br/>
should be effected. At last it came, the<br/>
heavy head made another sag wifeward a<br/>
full inch, the sprig passed into the ear as<br/>
nicely as if it had been pointed by roguish<br/>
hands, and penetrating to the inner and<br/>
most sensitive portion, tickled the nodding<br/>
gentleman so intensely that he drew up<br/>
his head with a jerk, and striking out with<br/>
his right hand before he was barely awake,<br/>
dealt his wife a blow full upon her new<br/>
bonnet, to the utter discomfiture of its<br/>
flowers and ribbons, and to the infinite<br/>
amusement of the lookers-on in the gal-<br/>
lery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But who can describe the look of<br/>
ineffable sheepishness that settled upon<br/>
the face of the late sleeper, when he be-<br/>
came fully conscious of the ridiculousness<br/>
of his position. Wife looked savage, in<br/>
evident inward contemplation of the dam-<br/>
aged bonnet, and both were seen hasten-<br/>
ing home after service by way of a back<br/>
street. We wouldn't have had the "Candle"<br/>
our hero received when he reached home.—<br/>
NEWARK COURIER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thoughts By The way.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pride can be as insolent in rags as in<br/>
purple and fine linen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man may have much of the WORLD<br/>
and not be much of a MAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professing to be a Christian does not<br/>
CREATE the obligation to be one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The heaviest TROUBLES under which<br/>
many persons groan are BORROWED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To-morrow is the road that thousand<br/>
travel to the bottomless gulf of NEVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who is in search of HUMAN PERFEC-<br/>
TION has saddled his horse for a long<br/>
JOURNEY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who makes long prayers on Sunday<br/>
and cheats his neighbors on Monday, is a<br/>
rascal, nevertheless.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-01_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS is to inform the Public that<br/>
the Notice which appeared in<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder, of the 10th<br/>
and 18th October, stating that "NANG<br/>
IN" called by CHONG LEONG,-—"JEN-<br/>
NIE", was by the influence of my wife<br/>
Mr LAI enticed from his House;"—-<br/>
was nothing less than Calamny, and<br/>
for which false statement I sued<br/>
CHONG LEONG, the Author of the said<br/>
Notice, for $ 200 (dollars) damages.<br/>
On the 29th October the case came on<br/>
for Trial before Her Britannic Ma-<br/>
jesty's Consul, and after the case had<br/>
been clearly proved the Consul gave<br/>
judgment for $ 100 (dollars) damages,<br/>
together with permission to insert a<br/>
Notice contradicting the one inserted<br/>
by CHONG LEONG, the Chinese Baker.<br/>
Established on the New Street.<br/>
Charon Kroong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, Oct. 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS.
French Baker
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
