---
linkTitle: 'April 19th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 19th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 19th'
date: 2025-12-03T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 38
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, April 19th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 15.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Speak Gently to the Little
Ones.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gently, mother, gently,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Chide thy little one,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Tis a toilsome journey<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It hath just begun;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Many a vale of sorrow,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Many a rugged steep,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Lieth in its pathway,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And full oft 'twill weep;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Oh, then, gently—gently.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Kindly, mother, kindly,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Speak in tender tone;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That dear Child, remember,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Echoes back thine own;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Teach in gentle accents,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Teach in words of love;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Let the softest breezes<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Its young heart-strings move;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Kindly, mother, kindly.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Would'st thou have the setting<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of a gem most fair,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In a crown of beauty<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It were thine to wear ?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Mother, train with caution<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That dear little one;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Guide, reprove, and ever<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Let the work be done<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Gently mother, kindly.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
The Friend.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jamaica
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from No. 11.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That anything will be done to expi-<br/>
ate this crime is very unlikely, and we<br/>
fear it must be added to the many<br/>
other abominations with which Eng-<br/>
land seems to delight to fill her cup to<br/>
overflowing. The attempt of Governor<br/>
Eyre to throw the responsibility of<br/>
this bloodshed on a letter of the Rev.<br/>
Dr. Underhill, addressed privately to<br/>
Mr. Cardwell, the colonial secretary,<br/>
exposing the wrongs of the negroes,<br/>
will help to arouse the dissenting body<br/>
in England. This letter was to Gov.<br/>
Eyre for his information, and by him<br/>
published in the Jamaican papers! So<br/>
that he alone is responsible for its ef-<br/>
fect on the people, if any it had.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
England must settle this matter with<br/>
her own subjects, and before the tri-<br/>
bunal of the civilized world; but it has<br/>
a lesson which extends beyond the<br/>
limits of her empire. Its instructions<br/>
seem to have been providentially meant<br/>
for us at this precise moment of our<br/>
history. The state of things in Ja-<br/>
maica, which has filled the hearts of<br/>
the ruling class there with panic, and<br/>
thus occasioned these horrors, is pre-<br/>
cisely that which the rebel party in<br/>
the late Slave States is trying to esta-<br/>
blish there. Though nominally free,<br/>
and even with the right of suffrage un-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
der a property qualification which vir-<br/>
tually disqualifies the great majority,<br/>
the negroes are ground down by cruel<br/>
and oppressive laws, and reduced to<br/>
the most extreme poverty and misery.<br/>
This reacts on the prosperity of the rul-<br/>
ing class, and is fast bringing the island<br/>
to bankruptcy. That insurrection will<br/>
inevitably result from the state of<br/>
things there unless prevented by wise<br/>
measures of justice on the part of the<br/>
home government, is plain. The fears<br/>
of insurrections of which we hear as<br/>
existing at the South are proofs of a<br/>
sense of the injustice that provokes<br/>
them. The planter-party here, exact-<br/>
ly as in Jamaica, are not to be trusted<br/>
with the making of laws for the gov-<br/>
ernment of their region, nor yet with<br/>
the execution of them. The American<br/>
Nation and the British Empire are<br/>
justly charged with this office, and will<br/>
be responsible for the results if they<br/>
neglect to discharge it rightly. An<br/>
external force can regulate such a dis-<br/>
turbed and disjointed machine as the<br/>
government of a state passing from a<br/>
foundation of slave labor to one of free<br/>
labor. The English government left<br/>
this responsibility virtually to the<br/>
former slave-masters, and we see what<br/>
has come of it-—poverty for the labor-<br/>
er, ruin to themselves, and bloodshed<br/>
and terrorism for all. It is for Congress<br/>
to see to it that we do not make this<br/>
same blunder, under circumstances<br/>
far less excusable—-for the Jamaican<br/>
planters had not dared openly to rebel<br/>
thirty years ago. We are without ex-<br/>
cuse, if we suffer the rebels at the<br/>
South to avenge their defeat on the<br/>
blacks there and on the whites here.<br/>
They must be held in the tutelage of<br/>
the nation until they have grown ac-<br/>
customed to the new state of things,<br/>
and content to allow the black men<br/>
who are among them, and the white<br/>
men who may come among them, to<br/>
enjoy all their constitutional rights as<br/>
men and as citizens, without molesta-<br/>
tion. And this as much for their own<br/>
sakes as for that of the parties needing<br/>
present protection. This done, and<br/>
the South country will soon rejoice in<br/>
peace, safety, and prosperity, which<br/>
will overflow and enrich us all. Neg-<br/>
lected, the fate of Jamaica surely a-<br/>
waits the guilty region, and the pun-<br/>
ishment will be shared by us, who<br/>
might have prevented it and refused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
N. Y. Independent.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Signs of Character.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Trifles make up the sum of hu-<br/>
man things," and it is surprising how<br/>
readily an experienced eye can read<br/>
character from the slightest and most<br/>
insignificant data. Don't you believe<br/>
it, reader? Just allow us to give you<br/>
a few whispers on the subject-—a peep<br/>
through our own special opera glass-<br/>
es, at the world around us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When you meet a young man with<br/>
plenty of bad cologne on his pocket<br/>
handkerchief, and a stale odor of ci-<br/>
gar smoke in his hair, you may be<br/>
sure that he was bold enough to con-<br/>
tract a very bad habit, and not bold<br/>
enough frankly to take the conse-<br/>
quences of it. In cigar vs. cologne,<br/>
the plaintiff has the best of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When you see a woman with her<br/>
shawl fastened all awry, and unmend-<br/>
ed fractures in her gloves, it is a pret-<br/>
ty sure index that she reads novels<br/>
and lies abed late in the morning. If<br/>
you happen to be wife hunting, don't<br/>
be misled by her bright eyes and cher-<br/>
ry cheeks. A girl who cannot spend<br/>
time to keep herself looking neat,<br/>
ought not to be trusted with the care<br/>
of shirt buttons and cravat ends, to<br/>
say nothing of the husband appended<br/>
to these articles!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a gentleman hands up your<br/>
fare in the stage as politely as that of<br/>
the gorgeously dressed neighbor with-<br/>
out reference to the fact that you<br/>
wear calico and cotton gloves, rest<br/>
assured that he is lacking in no<br/>
courtesies to his own wife at home.<br/>
And if a lady-—no, a woman-—ac-<br/>
cepts his politeness as a mere matter<br/>
of course, with no "thank you!," no ac-<br/>
knowledged smile, then you may con-<br/>
clude that she has entered into socie-<br/>
ty on the bubbles of petroleum-—not<br/>
on any merits of her own.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a lady-—no, once again—-a<br/>
female goes to the grocery in a rust-<br/>
ling silk dress, and does her morning<br/>
shopping in a diamond ring and a<br/>
cashmere shawl, it is a sign of one or<br/>
two things, either she does not know<br/>
any better, or she has no other place<br/>
to display her finery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a "nice young man" who<br/>
is paying you particular attention,<br/>
speaks shortly to his mother, or omits<br/>
to pay his sisters the little attentions<br/>
that come so gracefully from man to<br/>
woman, it is apt to be a sign that his<br/>
wife must put up with the same sys-<br/>
tem of snubbing and neglect as soon<br/>
as the first gloss of the wedding suit<br/>
is gone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a lady finds Macaulay's His-<br/>
tory a dreadful bore, and skips the<br/>
historical part of Scott's novels, it is<br/>
not an unfair inference that her brain<br/>
is not very fully furnished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a gentleman cannot talk<br/>
fluently on the subjects of ancient and<br/>
modern interest, but "polkas" charm-<br/>
ingly, we may conclude that his<br/>
brains—-such as they are—have all<br/>
settled down to agile heels.-—Now,<br/>
we do not disapprove of dancing, yet<br/>
we must confess to a preference for<br/>
having the brains a little higher up.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a girl entertains you with<br/>
spicy ridicule of her gentlemen<br/>
friends, "showing up" their various<br/>
imperfections and weaknesses, take<br/>
your hat and go. If you need any<br/>
comfort, there will be sufficient in<br/>
the fact that you will furnish your<br/>
share of amusement to the next ar-<br/>
rival!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Put not your faith (speaking from<br/>
a feminine standpoint) in gentlemen<br/>
that wear diamond scarf pins, and<br/>
spend their leisure time on hotel steps,<br/>
for it is very likely they belong to the<br/>
extensive class of society for whom<br/>
Satan is popularly supposed "to find<br/>
some mischief still!" to keep their<br/>
idle hands in occupation. Better lav-<br/>
ish your smiles on the sturdy young<br/>
carpenter in shirt sleeves and overalls,<br/>
who works by the day; it will be<br/>
more profitable in the long run.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a woman finds Sunday the<br/>
"longest day in the week," it is a<br/>
sign that there was some woful defi-<br/>
ciency in her early religious training.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a man speaks irreverently of<br/>
sacred things, let it suffice as a warn-<br/>
ing to trust him in no single matter.<br/>
No matter how brilliant may be his<br/>
talents, how fair his professions, there<br/>
is a false ring to his metal. Don't<br/>
trust him.—-Phrenological Journal.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pres. Johnson's Popularity.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson is, perhaps, at<br/>
this moment, the most popular man<br/>
in the United States, or, at any rate,<br/>
the man who is least assailed by detrac-<br/>
tion. The moderate Republicans, De-<br/>
mocrats, the Southerners, and the men<br/>
who eschew all party ties, freely avow<br/>
their confidence in him. Well, what<br/>
has he done, and what is he doing?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing whatever, unhesitatingly we<br/>
reply, which can be construed into the<br/>
faintest suspicion that he contem-<br/>
plates the probability of another mili-<br/>
tary contest. On the contrary, not<br/>
merely the tone of his diplomacy, but<br/>
the whole scope of his internal adminis-<br/>
tration, indicates the fixed determina-<br/>
tion of the American people to keep<br/>
the peace. About this time last year,<br/>
the Northern States alone were com-<br/>
puted to have had a million men un-<br/>
der arms. They have now barely<br/>
100,000, and these are being reduced<br/>
to a normal establishment of 50,000.<br/>
The work of "mustering out" has<br/>
gone on with a rapidity that has as-<br/>
tonished Europeans, and civil society<br/>
has absorbed, and, we may say, as-<br/>
similated, more than nine tenths of<br/>
that immense army. There are doubts<br/>
whether this disarmament has not<br/>
been carried to an extent too great for<br/>
the maintenance of internal order and<br/>
security; but, as a nation, the Ameri-<br/>
cans have acquiesced and approved.<br/>
There has been a corresponding dis-<br/>
mantling of a numerous and powerful<br/>
fleet. Every kind of warlike expendi-<br/>
ture has been similarly cut down, and<br/>
Secretary M'Culloch is broaching plans<br/>
for the extinction of the public debt<br/>
within thirty years. All this betokens<br/>
a settled purpose on the part of both the<br/>
Government and the people to cultiv-<br/>
ate pacific and friendly relations with<br/>
foreign Powers. In short-America<br/>
has buried the hatchet; and ,although<br/>
she is too high spirited to bear an indig-<br/>
nity, she is plainly indisposed to snatch<br/>
up arms in a spirit of recklessness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Chandler's motion was "tabled"<br/>
—-that is, rejected—-in the Senate by<br/>
two to one. His notice of it created<br/>
general uneasiness in the States; its<br/>
fate restored confidence, and was felt<br/>
as a relief. Even if it had been carried,<br/>
the President would probably have<br/>
declined to act upon it. We may,<br/>
therefore dismiss it from our minds<br/>
with a sense of satisfaction that it has<br/>
only served to bring out into stronger<br/>
relief the disinclination of our Trans-<br/>
atlantic kinsmen to be hurried into a<br/>
quarrel with us. We can heartily re-<br/>
ciprocate the feeling, and if in the fu-<br/>
ture, as in the past, there be occasional<br/>
word-sparring between them and our-<br/>
selves, we shall yet cherish the trust that<br/>
underneath superficial differences there<br/>
is substantial unity of sentiment and<br/>
interests, and that henceforth there will<br/>
be less and less danger of any serious<br/>
disturbance of the friendly relations in<br/>
which it is desirable, for the sake of<br/>
human liberty and progress, that Eng-<br/>
land and America should ever stand<br/>
towards each other. Ill. Lon. News
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Hundred years Ago.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One hundred years ago, there was<br/>
not a single white man in Ohio, Ken-<br/>
tucky, Ind, or Illinois territories. Then,<br/>
what is now the most flourishing part<br/>
of America, was as little known as<br/>
the mountains of the moon. It was<br/>
not until 1769 that the hunter of<br/>
Kentucky, the gallant and adventur-<br/>
ous Boone, left his home in North<br/>
Carolina to become the first settler in<br/>
Kentucky. The first pioneer of Ohio<br/>
did not settle till twenty years after-<br/>
wards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years ago, Canada be-<br/>
longed to France, and the whole po-<br/>
pulation of the United States did not<br/>
exceed a million and a half.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years ago, the great<br/>
Frederick of Prussia was performing<br/>
those exploits which have made him<br/>
immortal in military annals, and with<br/>
his little monarchy was sustaining a<br/>
single-handed contest with Russia,<br/>
Austria and France, the three great<br/>
powers of Europe combined.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years ago, the United<br/>
States were the most loyal people of<br/>
the British Empire, and on the poli-<br/>
tical horizon no speck indicated the<br/>
struggle which, within a score of<br/>
years thereafter, established the great<br/>
republic of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years ago, there were<br/>
but four newspapers in America—<br/>
with a combined circulation not ex-<br/>
ceeding 2,000. Steam engines and<br/>
cylinder presses had not been imagined,<br/>
and railroads and telegraphs had not<br/>
entered the remotest conception of<br/>
man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we come to look back at it<br/>
through the vista of history, we find<br/>
that the century which has passed has<br/>
been allotted to more important events<br/>
in their bearing upon the happiness<br/>
of the world, than almost any other<br/>
that has happened since the creation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years hence, who can<br/>
foretell our developements and nation-<br/>
al greatness? Loraine Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Freedmens Prospects in
Georgia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ex. Gov. Herschel V. Johnson in a<br/>
speech delivered last Dec. has the follow-<br/>
ing noticeable paragraph.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“We are now to enter upon the ex-<br/>
periment whether the class of people<br/>
to which we are in future to look as<br/>
our laboring class can be organized<br/>
into efficient and trust worthy labor-<br/>
ers. That may be done-—or, I hope<br/>
it may be done—-if we are left to<br/>
ourselves. If we cannot succeed,<br/>
others need not attempt it; and I<br/>
trust that in the future we will have<br/>
the poor privilege of being let alone<br/>
in reference to this class of our<br/>
people.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A writer for the N. York Independent<br/>
has made the following just remarks on<br/>
the spirit of Georgians towards the Freed-<br/>
men
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I bear you sorrowful witness that<br/>
there spoke the true Georgian. He is<br/>
sublimely ignorant of the fact that the<br/>
negro is also a child of the republic<br/>
—-sublimely ignorant of the fact that<br/>
the war has restored him to certain<br/>
human rights. He only sees so many<br/>
machines, the mission of which it is to<br/>
do his work, and asks you to let him<br/>
alone in their management. He begs<br/>
of you to give him this “poor privil-<br/>
ege,” and gravely tells you that they<br/>
cannot be made to work at all if this<br/>
be denied him.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If this be the spirit of Georgia, Mr.<br/>
Johnson, we the friends of the Freedmen<br/>
must not, cannot allow Georgia to be<br/>
left to herself in her treatment of the<br/>
Freedmen. We must by some means<br/>
make Georgia willing to allow that the<br/>
colored race are to have equal rights with<br/>
the whites and the privilege of living<br/>
peacefully and honorably among them<br/>
even through it cost another war. Eo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“In one town which I visited, an old<br/>
negro man was horsewhipped at noon-<br/>
day, on the public street, for asking a<br/>
white man for money due him for<br/>
services rendered. In another, a ne-<br/>
gro boy was threatened with shooting<br/>
if he did not quietly accept a dollar as<br/>
the price of a summer’s work in a<br/>
blacksmith’s shop. In another, a girl<br/>
was hung up by the thumbs for<br/>
twelve hours because she failed to ac-<br/>
complish a certain task in spinning.<br/>
In another, a woman was severely<br/>
whipped about the head for asserting,<br/>
that she was a free person. In still<br/>
another, a woman was almost murder-<br/>
ed by the cowhide—one white man<br/>
whipping her while two others held<br/>
her. At Columbus, a man said to me,<br/>
with a quiet chuckle, that a right<br/>
smart chance of niggers had been<br/>
found dead in his county lately, with<br/>
bullet-holes in their heads. At At-<br/>
lanta, another told me that they re-<br/>
cently had occasion to dredge a small<br/>
river near his town, and brought to<br/>
light the bodies of “about twenty big<br/>
buck niggers.” Do not these facts set<br/>
up a sign-board so large that he who<br/>
runs may read ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between Augusta and Milledgeville,<br/>
I rode in a stage in which were also<br/>
two delegates of the convention-—both<br/>
of them intelligent and well-informed<br/>
men of mature years. I had been ask-<br/>
ing some questions about the Georgia<br/>
school system, and had just remarked<br/>
that I hoped the time would soon<br/>
come when school-houses would be<br/>
as numerous in Georgia as in Massa-<br/>
chusetts. “Well, I hope it never<br/>
will come,” said one of them; “po-<br/>
pular education’s all a d––d hum-<br/>
bug, in my judgement.” “I think so,<br/>
too,” answered the other. “I used<br/>
to be in favor of it; but since I’ve<br/>
seen what it leads to in the North, I’m<br/>
opposed to it.” “That’s just it,” con-<br/>
cluded the first; “it’s well enough to<br/>
give boys who are to be professional<br/>
men a good education; but reading,<br/>
writing, and arithmetic are full as<br/>
much as ought to be taught the com-<br/>
mon people.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the average Georgia stand-<br/>
point, he is half insane who talks of<br/>
educating the negro. “What, build<br/>
school-houses for niggers?” exclaim-<br/>
ed a citizen to a Cincinnati gentleman,<br/>
with whom I sat in the public room<br/>
at the Macon hotel. “Well, when<br/>
we do, I’ll just let you know.”<br/>
Some of the leading men see and say<br/>
that the interests of the state will be<br/>
promoted by educating the freedmen;<br/>
but nine-tenths of the people sneer<br/>
just as the Macon man did. Yet,<br/>
within four blocks of that same hotel<br/>
I saw a negro porter in a store labor-<br/>
ing at his spelling-book in the corner,<br/>
when no customers were in; and a<br/>
young negro woman with her spelling-<br/>
book fastened to the fence, that she<br/>
might study while at work over the<br/>
wash-tub. Yet I’m everywhere told<br/>
that the nigger can’t learn, and money<br/>
spent in educating him would be mo-<br/>
ney thrown away.-—N. Y. Indepen-<br/>
dent.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hobson's choice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Cambridge, England, one sees<br/>
an interesting street or alley called<br/>
Hobson's Alley. It was here that the<br/>
stables of that very Hobson who gave<br/>
us the proverbial expression of "Hob-<br/>
son's choice" stood. Hobson was the<br/>
keeper of a livery stable, and each<br/>
horse let out was placed furthest from<br/>
the door, the next hirer being requir-<br/>
ed to take the horse that was nearest<br/>
the door, that being the one longest<br/>
unworked. People could select the<br/>
horse, but it was managed so that it<br/>
should always be that nearest the door;<br/>
that was "Hobson's choice."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
April 19th 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Changing Allegiance.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following timely notes have been<br/>
prepared by one who justly claims<br/>
to be pretty well read on the great sub-<br/>
ject of International law, and we<br/>
think we do well in giving them the<br/>
prominence we now do in this No. of<br/>
the Recorder. It seems to us high<br/>
time that the question of Naturali-<br/>
zation should be discussed here in its<br/>
relations to the subjects of the Siamese<br/>
government. If we have been cor-<br/>
rectly informed, many of the subjects<br/>
of the government who have been<br/>
proselyted to the Roman Catholic reli-<br/>
gion by French Missionaries are bold<br/>
to assert that they have consequently<br/>
removed their allegiance from the<br/>
Siamese government to the French,<br/>
and hence claim exemption from<br/>
paying the duties that are requir-<br/>
ed of them by the servants of the<br/>
government. A little reflection should<br/>
be sufficient to convince them that<br/>
this notion carried out in practice<br/>
must be preposterous. We trust there-<br/>
fore that their religious teachers have<br/>
too much good sense to propogate this<br/>
mischievous doctrine.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Consuls their duties, powers,
Naturalization
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wheaton observes (Chap. II. Sec.<br/>
IV. fol. 215) "the municipal laws and<br/>
institutions of any State may operate<br/>
beyond its own territory, and within<br/>
the territory of another State, by<br/>
special compact between two States.<br/>
Such are the treaties by which the<br/>
consuls, and other commercial agents<br/>
of one nation are authorized to exer-<br/>
cise over their own countrymen, a<br/>
jurisdiction within the territory of the<br/>
state where they reside. The nature<br/>
and extent of this peculiar jurisdiction<br/>
depends upon the stipulations of the<br/>
Treaty between the two States. A-<br/>
mong Christian nations it is generally<br/>
confined to the descision of controver-<br/>
sies in civil cases arising between<br/>
the merchants, seamen and other sub-<br/>
jects of the state; in foreign countries<br/>
to the registering of wills, contracts, and<br/>
other instruments, executed in the<br/>
presence of the consul; and to the ad-<br/>
ministration of the estates of their fel-<br/>
low subjects deceased within the terri-<br/>
torial limits of the consulate. The res-<br/>
ident consuls of the Christian powers<br/>
in Turkey, the Barbary States, and<br/>
other Mahomedan countries exercise<br/>
both civil and criminal jurisdiction<br/>
over their countrymen, to the exclusion<br/>
of the local magistrates and tribunals.<br/>
This jurisdiction is ordinarily subject,<br/>
in civil cases, to an appeal to the supe-<br/>
rior tribunals of their own country.<br/>
The criminal jurisdiction is usually<br/>
limited to the infliction of pecuniary<br/>
penalties; and in offences of a higher<br/>
grade, the functions of the consul are<br/>
similar to those of the police magis-<br/>
trate or "judge d' instruction." He<br/>
collects the documentary and other<br/>
proofs, and sends them, together with<br/>
the prisoner, home to his own country<br/>
for trial."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This view is supported by Phill-<br/>
emore (Vol. 2. Part 7. chap. 1. Sec.<br/>
CCXLV. fol. 239.) "The status of<br/>
the consulate therefore at the present<br/>
time seems to require a two-fold divi-<br/>
sion viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. The Legal status of Consuls, in<br/>
Christian countries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. The Legal status of Consuls in<br/>
the Levant and in Mahomedan coun-<br/>
tries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The duties expected from such con-<br/>
suls and the mode of performing them<br/>
are fully explained by Phillmore in<br/>
chap. V. fol. 271. And Sec.<br/>
CCLXXVII. Fol. 274. contains an<br/>
extract from the treaty of peace be-<br/>
tween Great Britain and China in<br/>
1842-43, article 13th, granting pow-<br/>
ers of an extended character to<br/>
consuls, requiring in some respects<br/>
the exercise of judicial and executive<br/>
functions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears to me that Siam comes<br/>
under the last category, which, whilst<br/>
it grants to consuls more extensive<br/>
powers than in Christian countries,<br/>
does not authorize them to act con-<br/>
trary to, or at variance with, the laws<br/>
of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having thus briefly pointed out the<br/>
position and duties of Consuls in this<br/>
country, and the power under which<br/>
they act, it remains to be examined<br/>
whether they can grant letters of na-<br/>
turalization, and to whom. This ques-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tion is one which presents no great<br/>
difficulty. VATEL says that a nation or<br/>
the sovereign who represents it, may<br/>
grant to a foreigner the quality of<br/>
citizen, by admitting him into the bo-<br/>
dy of the political society. This is<br/>
called "naturalization". In Siam<br/>
the point, is who is entitled to the<br/>
protection of the flag of a particular<br/>
nation? The English Consul grants<br/>
such protection to those who can pro-<br/>
duce proofs of having resided a cer-<br/>
tain time in a British Colony, such as<br/>
Hongkong, Singapore, Malacca, Pen-<br/>
ang or British India in so far as Asia-<br/>
tics are concerned. But the French<br/>
have only Sri-gon, Pondicherry, an<br/>
Bourbon from which they can derive<br/>
similar rights. To recognize as entit-<br/>
led to the protection of the British or<br/>
French flags, citizens of Bangkok or<br/>
inhabitants of Siam, is not, as far as I<br/>
can trace in the books written on the<br/>
subject, legal, and is contrary to the<br/>
laws of nations. Moreover change of<br/>
religion does not justify exchange of<br/>
allegiance on the part of the subject.<br/>
He may leave the country and seek<br/>
another more tolerant and less restric-<br/>
tive, where he may at the end of a<br/>
series of years apply for letters of<br/>
"naturalization"; but he cannot in<br/>
his own country, and of his own free<br/>
will renounce his allegiance to his<br/>
rightful sovereign and place himself<br/>
under the protection of a foreign flag;<br/>
neither can a Consul or Ambassador<br/>
extend such protection to him (see<br/>
Wheaton fol: 172 and appendix fol.<br/>
910 and following. Phillimore Vol. I<br/>
Chapter XVII Section CCCXXIII,<br/>
fol: 348 and following.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wildman Vol II. fol : 42; on na-<br/>
tional character mentions that in the<br/>
case of Factories in the Eastern parts<br/>
of the world, European persons trad-<br/>
ing under the shelter of those establish-<br/>
ments are conceived to take their nation-<br/>
al character from that association under<br/>
which they live and carry on the na-<br/>
tional commerce; but these factories,<br/>
such as were possessed by European<br/>
nations in the East in former years,<br/>
have mostly ceased to exist, and con-<br/>
sequently the laws which regulated<br/>
them have also lost their force, and<br/>
cannot at any rate be said to justify<br/>
indiscriminate naturalization.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the foregoing it may there-<br/>
fore be gathered that consuls have<br/>
somewhat more extended powers in<br/>
this country in a judicial point of<br/>
view, but that such powers do not give<br/>
them authority to afford the protection<br/>
of their flag to people who are not<br/>
legally entitled to naturalization by a<br/>
residence lengthened or a possession<br/>
in the country which the Consul re-<br/>
presents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, April 12th 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Domestic Animals of Siam
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER I.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our friends abroad who have a de-<br/>
sire to become better acquainted than<br/>
they are with the manners and cus-<br/>
toms of Siam will, we are inclined to<br/>
think, be glad to have us give them<br/>
occasionally a chapter on the domes-<br/>
tic animals of the country. And as<br/>
the Recorder is largely devoted to<br/>
communicating all sorts and kinds of<br/>
information relative to the Siamese,<br/>
we propose now commencing a series<br/>
of articles on the subject above men-<br/>
tioned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We begin with the subject of Dogs<br/>
as this animal is the most conspicuous<br/>
of all the Siamese domestic animals,<br/>
the monstrous Elephant, even, not ex-<br/>
cepted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dogs of Siam are almost ex-<br/>
clusively of the breed vulgarly deno-<br/>
minated pariah. Their physiognomy<br/>
bears a striking resemblance to that<br/>
of the jackal family. Five tenths of<br/>
them, we judge, are of a light sorril<br/>
color—two tenths dun—two tenths<br/>
black, and another brindle, speckled or<br/>
spotted. They are generally rather<br/>
small. A large dog is exceedingly rare.<br/>
There are a few lap-dogs to be found<br/>
here and there among the more afflu-<br/>
ent classes who feel able to keep such<br/>
pets; but they are exotics.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dogs may be counted by tens of<br/>
thousands in the great metropolis and<br/>
by millions in all the kingdom. A<br/>
large majority of the families of this<br/>
city have full as many canine mem-<br/>
bers of their households as human. The<br/>
reason of this extraordinary propor-<br/>
tion of dogs is not because the peo-<br/>
ple have any unusual attachment for<br/>
them, but rather because they know<br/>
not how to get rid of them, and not<br/>
commit a sin that would be likely to<br/>
ruin their characters as good Bud-<br/>
dhists. The sin of killing animals is ac-<br/>
counted by all Buddhists as one of the<br/>
most henious. And the reason it is<br/>
so considered results, probably, in<br/>
part from the dogma of the Buddhist<br/>
religion that each animal is possessed,<br/>
or in part occupied by some spirit of<br/>
mankind in a state of transmigration<br/>
from the spirit world. It may per-<br/>
chance be the spirit of a father, or,<br/>
mother, or brother, or sister, or wife,<br/>
or husband, or child, or one of the<br/>
long since departed of ones ancestors,<br/>
or of others who were noble or igno-<br/>
ble good or evil. Possibly the spirit<br/>
of a future Buddh may be inhabiting<br/>
the body of the dog, or cat, or fish, or<br/>
snake which one is tempted to kill.<br/>
O how sad, thinks a pious Buddhist<br/>
would it be in the progress of intermi-<br/>
nable ages to find that myself had<br/>
dishonored so august a being by driv-<br/>
ing life out of the body in which he<br/>
once lived! — There is also another<br/>
motive leading all Buddhists to dread<br/>
killing animals, which is the apparent<br/>
unmercifulness of the act. They hold<br/>
that all animals love life as much as<br/>
man does, and that it is as painful and<br/>
horrifying for them to die as it is for<br/>
man, and hence that to kill them<br/>
evinces great cruelty and a spirit the<br/>
farthest possible from a happy hereaf-<br/>
ter. Now if they can steer clear of<br/>
this sin, they seem to regard themselves<br/>
as being very holy. The most com-<br/>
mon mode of speaking in praise of<br/>
ones own moral character is to say<br/>
why. I have never designedly killed<br/>
any animal! And this is the lock<br/>
which always closes fast the door<br/>
against all conviction of need, of any<br/>
help out of themselves to save from sin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hence we may conclude that it is<br/>
mainly a desire to save themselves<br/>
from future misery which leads these<br/>
Buddhists to suffer their dogs to be-<br/>
come so inordinately numerous about<br/>
their houses. The hope of any parti-<br/>
cular benefit from them as guards of<br/>
their property must, we think, be<br/>
quite feebly developed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The question naturally arises here,<br/>
—How is it that the people are not<br/>
absolutely overrun by dogs if they are<br/>
so opposed to killing them? Our an-<br/>
swer is that by far the largest part<br/>
of them die from sheer starvation<br/>
while but a few weeks old, another<br/>
large part die from the same cause<br/>
in the course of a year. Another large<br/>
part are so beaten and wounded by<br/>
even the pious Buddhists that they<br/>
die of their wounds; and finally an-<br/>
other large part are killed outright by<br/>
impious Buddhist and others in fits<br/>
of anger.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A very common mode of getting re-<br/>
lief when greatly annoyed by too<br/>
great an accumulation of dogs in any<br/>
homestead, is to catch them and carry<br/>
them off in a boat to some temple far<br/>
away, or to a desolate place where<br/>
they will not readily find their way back<br/>
again. It is not accounted a henious<br/>
sin to be thus unkind to them however<br/>
sure they may be to perish ultimately<br/>
from the change, provided one does<br/>
not directly take their lives from<br/>
them. But this mode of deliverance<br/>
from dogs is not often of long<br/>
continuance, for the creatures will<br/>
often times find their way back again,<br/>
even swimming the broad river, espe-<br/>
cially so, if their old home had been<br/>
in the main a tolerable one for them.<br/>
And should they not return, their pla-<br/>
ces are quickly filled by other dogs in<br/>
the neighborhood, who, being forced<br/>
by oppression and famine are quick<br/>
to discern where they may improve<br/>
their circumstances, and finding an<br/>
eligible vacancy run in and fill it. Or<br/>
what is quite as likely to happen, some<br/>
person in some distant part of the ci-<br/>
ty will bring his canine nuisances and<br/>
set them at liberty in your own yard<br/>
in the darkness of night. Hence this<br/>
plan of disposing of dogs amounts to<br/>
little more than a system of exchange.<br/>
Many dogs are ploied or let loose in<br/>
the courts of temples where they are<br/>
expected to eat the crumbs that fall<br/>
from the priest's table, or the fragments<br/>
of their last daily meal a little before<br/>
twelve o'clock. But they get nothing<br/>
to support their carnivorous natures,<br/>
and are compelled to change their<br/>
natures to granivorous for they must<br/>
live alone on rice and learn to love it.<br/>
But it is a miserable subsistence they<br/>
get in the priesthood. While they are<br/>
exempted from being beaten and<br/>
wounded as they would be daily at<br/>
all other places and are no longer lia-<br/>
ble to be subjected to the cruel sys-<br/>
tem of being cast away among utter<br/>
strangers, they are compelled to fight<br/>
with one another desperately for<br/>
their daily pittance. Consequently<br/>
you will see the strongest of them full<br/>
of the most loathsome sores which they<br/>
have got by the bites of other dogs,<br/>
and the weaker classes shrinking up<br/>
into mere skin and bone by absolute<br/>
starvation. And you will see these<br/>
mere skeletons attempting to bark but<br/>
not able to raise much more than a<br/>
whisper. It is so much the nature of<br/>
Siamese dogs to bark, that they will<br/>
always attempt it, even though their<br/>
legs will not bear the concession it<br/>
produces, and though some thing<br/>
tantamount to crutches has to be emi-<br/>
ployed to support them under it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the barking and growling and<br/>
howling of the dogs that are able to<br/>
raise their voices is often unutterably<br/>
doleful. Whole neighborhoods of<br/>
them will unite on a moonlight night<br/>
and have a grand concert of barking<br/>
together. And when they turn to<br/>
howling one is tempted to fancy that<br/>
last plague of Egypt has fallen on the<br/>
neighborhood or is about to come.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As intimated above, there are even<br/>
Buddhists who will in fits of anger<br/>
kill dogs with brickbats and clubs and<br/>
other missiles by which they die a<br/>
lingering and cruel death. And when<br/>
dead they will drag their carcasses into<br/>
the river or into some street or lane<br/>
for the crows and vultures to feed upon.<br/>
Hence the many canine carcasses you<br/>
daily see floating in the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The more pious Buddhists will try<br/>
to make a good conscience of feeding<br/>
their dogs a little, just enough to keep<br/>
them alive, thinking it a work that<br/>
will redound to their good in some<br/>
future state of their transmigration.<br/>
Others while they dare not kill them,<br/>
will leave them without food as they<br/>
do fish, when they take them, without<br/>
their vital element water. They fancy<br/>
that in so doing they cannot be charge-<br/>
able with killing them because they<br/>
die themselves. If we take a gun and<br/>
put an end to their misery at once<br/>
they shudder at our conduct and pro-<br/>
nounce us very irreligious: and when,<br/>
finding ourselves overrun with dogs, we<br/>
take what appears to them a little<br/>
milder course because bloodless, and<br/>
destroy them with strychnine, they<br/>
cannot help thinking that our future<br/>
happiness is, to say the least, greatly<br/>
imperiled by such treatment of ani-<br/>
mal life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It should, in conclusion, be said that<br/>
there are a few tolerably good looking<br/>
dogs among the pariah breed in the<br/>
city, and it is thought that a little training<br/>
with good feeding makes them very<br/>
trust-worthy watch dogs. We need say<br/>
but a few words about the continual<br/>
nuisance of this immense herd of dogs<br/>
in the city from their natural propen-<br/>
sity to bite.—No person is safe in<br/>
walking about the city without a stout<br/>
cane which will not break by striking<br/>
it over the head of a dog, or an um-<br/>
brella which he can suddenly open and<br/>
interpose between him and his canine<br/>
enemy. The cane will rarely need to<br/>
come to blows if you keep it continu-<br/>
ally flirting behind your back to fright-<br/>
en your pursuers from your heels. A<br/>
better way is to have one of your men<br/>
following you closely with a boat pad-<br/>
dle in hand with which to beat them off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very remarkable how few cases<br/>
of Hydrophobia are heard of occurring<br/>
in this city. We, who have been here<br/>
more than 30 years, and much of the<br/>
time in large medical practice, do not<br/>
recollect of having seen more than two<br/>
cases nor to have heard of more than<br/>
a dozen occurring in Bangkok during all<br/>
that time.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Attack of Pirates.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Extract from the Log of the Siam
Ship "Conqueror.")
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
March 10th 1866, at daylight, fine<br/>
weather and moderate breezes, north-<br/>
erly, weighed and made sail, and<br/>
stood out of the harbour of Hong-<br/>
Kong bound for Bangkok, in company<br/>
with the Ham. bark "George Henry",<br/>
and a Norwegian brig. 2 P. M. abreast of<br/>
the Ladrone islands, when we observed<br/>
a Loreha rigged craft, which had come<br/>
out with us from Hong Kong, keeping<br/>
along under the land, and being join-<br/>
ed by another craft of the same rig,<br/>
they both hoisted stinkpots to there mast<br/>
heads, and stood right across our bows.<br/>
On seeing this I had the ship cleared<br/>
for action.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As soon as we had passed some dis-<br/>
tance ahead, they steered right for us,<br/>
keeping in our wake, so that our<br/>
broadside guns could not bear upon<br/>
them. We could distinctly see the men<br/>
on board of them, who had red tur-<br/>
bans on their heads and sashes on<br/>
their waists. They now commenced<br/>
firing grape and musketry, on which I<br/>
hauled the vessel on the starboard<br/>
tack, with her head towards the Lad-<br/>
rone islands, so as to bring our broad-<br/>
side guns to bear upon the pirates, but<br/>
the man at the wheel getting wounded,<br/>
the vessel got into the wind and lost<br/>
head way, and while we were backing<br/>
the fore-topsail, one of the pirate run<br/>
under our stern, and through a grap-<br/>
line on board, at the same time throw-<br/>
ing stinkpots on the poop. The other<br/>
pirate sailed round us firing and<br/>
throwing stinkpots on board.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The stinkpots forced us to retire<br/>
and leave the poop, when about 30 of<br/>
the pirates boarded and took posses-<br/>
sion, and a hand to hand fight com-<br/>
menced, we defended ourselves on the<br/>
main deck, being partially protected<br/>
by the boats on the davits. In the<br/>
mean time the ship gradually filled<br/>
and shot ahead, one of the men cut<br/>
the grappline, and the pirate dropped<br/>
astern, when we made a sally and<br/>
drove the pirates who were on our<br/>
deck overboard, leaving most of their<br/>
weapons behind them. The other pirate<br/>
coming close to our starboard side, re-<br/>
ceived a shot in the bows from a six<br/>
pounder, which shattered her consider-<br/>
ably, when they both kept off for the<br/>
Ladrone islands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We had one man killed, eight<br/>
Chinese and four Siamese wounded,<br/>
more or less severely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Neither myself nor my chief officer,<br/>
recognized any of the pirates; but<br/>
the Chinese on board said that one<br/>
man amongst the pirates had been<br/>
cook on board this vessel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. SCHRODER.
Master of "Conqueror."
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir:-— The Parisian correspondent<br/>
of the Penang Argus, an extract from<br/>
whose writings appeared in your last<br/>
issue, alluding to a "curious cabalistic<br/>
calculation" respecting the present<br/>
Emperor of the French, does not relate<br/>
it in its entirety, and as it may prove<br/>
of interest to some of your readers, I<br/>
will now give it to you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The revolution which overthrew the Bour-<br/>
bons and led to the overthrow of Europe,<br/>
occurred in ..... 1789<br/>
Which figures added together, give ..... 25<br/>
which added to the above, give ..... 1814<br/>
the year of the first restoration.<br/>
The second restoration happened in ..... 1815<br/>
which figures added up as above, give ..... 15<br/>
brings us to the revolution of ..... 1830<br/>
and these being added as above, give ..... 19<br/>
and point to the year of the death of the .....<br/>
Duke of Orleans, which Louis Philippe in-<br/>
fluence never recovered ..... 1849
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But here the chain appears to break:<br/>
Amateurs of "cabalistic calculations"<br/>
are not to be defeated by such a trifle,<br/>
so they have continued from another<br/>
epoque.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Revolution which drove the<br/>
second branch of the Bourbons into<br/>
exile took place in 1848, and by a<br/>
similiar process of arithmetic as above<br/>
we reach 1869. "Napoleon III. was<br/>
declared Emperor in 1852," says the<br/>
correspondent of the Argus, "and<br/>
it is predicted he will fall in 1869."<br/>
Whether events will justify the calcu-<br/>
lation remains to be seen; I doubt the<br/>
Emperor's faith in his star being shook<br/>
by such a puerile array of figures,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok 16th April 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Your obedient Servant,
Sceptic.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Fire
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About twenty dwelling houses were<br/>
burned down in the village of Banana<br/>
on the evening of the 15th. That village<br/>
is about a mile north of the palace of<br/>
the Wangna on the northern or right<br/>
bank of the river. The fire is reported<br/>
to have began in the mansion of Phya<br/>
T’ep—that one of his slaves in car-<br/>
rying a lamp or torch into the bedroom<br/>
where his lord lay sick accidentally set<br/>
fire to the mosquito bars of his bed,<br/>
which almost instantly involved other<br/>
equally inflammable materials about<br/>
it; and quickly seized the wood work<br/>
of the house with such power as quite<br/>
to petrify the inmates with terror. We<br/>
have not learned that any human lives<br/>
were lost in the fire. Most of the build-<br/>
ing’s are said to have been made of<br/>
teak wood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is another warning to be added<br/>
to the multitudes that have happened<br/>
in this city within a few years past,<br/>
and the lesson is, that the greatest cau-<br/>
tion should be used in bringing lamps<br/>
or lighted cigars, or opium pipes into<br/>
close proximity to cotton mosquito<br/>
bars, which in the degree of their<br/>
inflammability are but little removed<br/>
from gun powder. This caution is<br/>
especially necessary in a dry and windy<br/>
time such as we have had in the after-<br/>
noon and evenings of the last fortnight.<br/>
A lamp set down but a few feet from the<br/>
bars is in danger of setting fire to them<br/>
by a gust of wind bringing the loose<br/>
ends of them over the lamp. It should<br/>
be accounted a crime to lie down to read,<br/>
or write, or sew under a cotton mus-<br/>
quito bar of only the ordinary size,<br/>
even if the bars be well tucked up,<br/>
for the person doing so is in danger of<br/>
dropping to sleep with his lamp burn-<br/>
ing, and then what wonder if he soon<br/>
find his bed on fire and his house in<br/>
flames, and a large community invol-<br/>
ved in the same catastrophe?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Murder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sunday the 8th inst. a Siamese<br/>
boy about 11 years old was found dead<br/>
in the vicinity of Wat Râk'ang. It ap-<br/>
pears that some monstrous villain had<br/>
murdered him in cold blood from the<br/>
despicable motive of stealing from his<br/>
person a pair of silver anklets worth a-<br/>
bout eight Ticals and a small gold lock-<br/>
et said to be worth four Ticals. On<br/>
examination it was found that his neck<br/>
had been broken by wringing it and<br/>
four of his ribs stove in probably by<br/>
stamping on his side. The child is<br/>
reported to be the son of a Siamese<br/>
medical doctor named Nai Sook who<br/>
with his mother live in the village<br/>
called Ban Lao not far from Temple<br/>
Råk'ang. The lad is said to have gone<br/>
out to fly his kite, and was murdered<br/>
in his absence. We are not informed<br/>
whether the murderer has been found<br/>
or not, but hear that the king is deter-<br/>
mined to adopt some stringent meas-<br/>
ures for forbidding parents to allow<br/>
their children to go about unprotected<br/>
wearing silver, gold, or jewels in any<br/>
of the usual forms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is time that these native parents<br/>
were thus checked in such displays of<br/>
their pride and vanity on the persons<br/>
of their children on all occasions. While<br/>
we have occasion now and then to re-<br/>
port cases of murder in the city of<br/>
Bangkok, it must be allowed that this<br/>
crime is of rare occurrence here as com-<br/>
pared with other populous cities in this<br/>
Eastern world, and we are happy in a-<br/>
warding to the Siamese people and na-<br/>
tion this meed of praise. A large ma-<br/>
jority of the cases of murder that do<br/>
occur in Siam it is believed are com-<br/>
mitted by Chinese, Malays and others.<br/>
The Siamese are very far from being<br/>
a blood thirsty and murderous people.<br/>
This is attributable, it may be, to the re-<br/>
markable prominence their religion<br/>
gives the 6th Commandment.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Buddhist Champion
again.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have just recieved another ar-<br/>
ticle from our Buddhist Antagonist.<br/>
It is written in Siamese and we have<br/>
got time to prepare it for the present is-<br/>
sue. We shall endeavour to give it the<br/>
thorough attention which we conceive<br/>
it demands. The author's proceeding<br/>
effort was in our opinion so feeble that<br/>
we thought (perhaps imprudently) that<br/>
he had "run out at the little end of<br/>
the horn" and that that would proba-<br/>
bly be the last that we should hear from<br/>
him. Consequently we thought it not<br/>
sufficiently dignified to reply to that<br/>
effort by any formal argument. This<br/>
hasty thought in us appears to have a-<br/>
roused our Goliath to unusual acuteness<br/>
and vigor, and we shall need to take a<br/>
little extra time to study a suitable an-<br/>
swer for him. It would be very sad<br/>
to have the Bible and Christianity now<br/>
overthrown by a Buddhist Champion<br/>
after so many thousand years of progress<br/>
from conquering to conquer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our friend Mr. J. Thomson the<br/>
Photographer, we think, has returned<br/>
to the city; but from whence he<br/>
comes, or how, we know not, as we<br/>
have not heard a word about it, and<br/>
saw only the shadow of his head in<br/>
Captain Ames' boat yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Monstrous Oppression.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In one of the late issues of our Si-<br/>
amese Recorder we had occasion to<br/>
point out very oppressive conduct on<br/>
the part of a petty of band government<br/>
officers in seizing and beating and<br/>
kicking and torturing people in Bang-<br/>
kok Noi without judge or jury or any<br/>
kind of trial whom they charged of<br/>
smoking opium illegally. It seems<br/>
that a royal edict had sometime before<br/>
been issued to seize all drunkards and<br/>
opium smokers and press them into<br/>
the work of building the Pramane for<br/>
the cremation of the royal remains of<br/>
the late second king. And hence the<br/>
royal constables and sheriffs were sent<br/>
out to make diligent search for such<br/>
characters, and that, when found by<br/>
legal search and proved guilty, to<br/>
compel them to go and serve the king in<br/>
that particular business. The report<br/>
we gave of it, and which has since been<br/>
fully corroborated, was, substantially,<br/>
that among the few guilty ones there<br/>
were many entirely innocent who were<br/>
seized by the royal constables, so that<br/>
a great panic had taken the whole<br/>
settlement and many families had a-<br/>
bandoned their houses and fled into<br/>
the county. If the man of the<br/>
house could not be found the wife<br/>
was taken. If the persons had able<br/>
and influential lords or other friends<br/>
in whom they could hope for redress<br/>
they would follow their captors, and<br/>
not think of offering a bribe for free-<br/>
dom. But if they had no such aid to<br/>
fall upon, they would get clear by<br/>
presenting a bribe ranging from 20 to<br/>
180 Ticals, out of which, it was affirm-<br/>
ed, the constables would take care to<br/>
replenish well their own purses. If<br/>
their victims had no money to offer as a<br/>
bribe, or being innocent and noble<br/>
spirited were determined they would<br/>
not plead guilty, they were thrust them<br/>
into the stocks and closely pinched and<br/>
thus tortured to force them to confess,<br/>
and that oftentimes they were scolded<br/>
and kicked like the vilest dogs while in<br/>
the stocks because of their apparent<br/>
obstinacy in pleading not guilty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many persons of influence and char-<br/>
acter have since expressed their grati-<br/>
tude to us for exposing that pit of in-<br/>
iquity which none dared to broach<br/>
to the king. And we are glad to learn<br/>
that that revelation has brought down<br/>
upon those abominable officers the just<br/>
indignation of the supreme power, and<br/>
will in all probability result ultimately<br/>
in great good. Thus do we feel en-<br/>
couraged to go on with our papers even<br/>
with a constant pecuniary loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NECESSITY OF A SURNAME.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But there happened to be one man<br/>
among the constables pointed out by<br/>
the name Nin, and as there are many<br/>
of the same name without a surname<br/>
to distinguish one from the other, a<br/>
man by the name of Nin living, per-<br/>
haps in the same neighborhood or em-<br/>
ployed in the same government services,<br/>
fearing that he might become unjustly<br/>
confounded with the other Nin has<br/>
sent us an article for our Siamese pa-<br/>
per, the object of which is to prove<br/>
that he cannot be the man concerned<br/>
in that monstrous oppression. We<br/>
hope and trust he may be innocent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The peculiar trials of that Nin<br/>
whoever he be, has started a new<br/>
thought in our minds. It is that the<br/>
time seems now to have fully come, for<br/>
all the families of Siam to have a fixed<br/>
and legalized surname. Hitherto<br/>
there has been no such thing. Each<br/>
man and woman and child has only<br/>
a personal monosyllabic baby name,<br/>
much as it used to be in the infancy<br/>
of the all the European nations. But<br/>
now the Siamese have come into such<br/>
intimacy with the western nations, are<br/>
going so deeply into business with the<br/>
people of those nations—-and business,<br/>
too that must needs be often greatly em-<br/>
barrassed without some better plan than<br/>
at present of designating individuals,<br/>
are we not quite right in judging that<br/>
no delay should be made on giving<br/>
every man and woman in Siam a sur-<br/>
name? England felt obliged to do so<br/>
as did all the nations of Europe when<br/>
they passed from a state of childhood<br/>
into full manhood. Has not Siam at-<br/>
tained to her majority? Why should all<br/>
her people longer live with only their<br/>
baby names? Let that Mr. Nin be<br/>
called Nin Lee or Nin Bee or Nin<br/>
What-not and he will no longer be in<br/>
danger of becoming confounded with<br/>
forty dozen other{{< news/indent2 >}}Mr. Nins.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Queer Statistics.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We find the following curious data<br/>
going the rounds. They are interest-<br/>
ing, however reliable or not they may<br/>
be.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}369,000,000 are of the Cancasian<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}552,000,000 are of the Mongrel<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}190,000,000 are of the Etheopian<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}176,000,000 are of the Malay.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}1,000,000 are of the Indo-American<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
There are on the globe about 1,288,-<br/>
000,000 of souls, of which<br/>
race.<br/>
race.<br/>
race.<br/>
race.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 3,648 languages spoken,<br/>
and 1,000 different religions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The yearly mortality of the globe is<br/>
3,333,333 persons. This is at the rate<br/>
of 91,584 per day, 3,730 per hour, 60<br/>
minute. So each pulsation of our<br/>
heart marks the decease of some hu-<br/>
man creature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The average of human life is 36<br/>
years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One fourth of the population die at<br/>
or before the age of 7 years-—one half<br/>
at or before 17 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among 10,000 persons one arrives<br/>
at the age of 100 years, one in 500<br/>
attains the age of 90, and one in 100<br/>
lives to the age of 80.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Married men live longer than single<br/>
ones. In 1,000 persons 65 marry,<br/>
and more marriages occur in June and<br/>
December that in any other month of<br/>
the year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One-eighth of the whole population<br/>
is military.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Professions exercise a great influ-<br/>
ence on longevity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1,000 individuals who arrive at<br/>
the age of 70 years, 48 are priests,<br/>
orators, or public speakers; 40 are<br/>
agriculturists, 33 are workmen, 32<br/>
soldiers or military employees, 20 ad-<br/>
vocates or engineers, 27 professors,<br/>
and 24 doctors. Those who devote<br/>
their lives to the prolongation of that<br/>
of others die soonest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 335,000,000 Christians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 5,000,000 Israelites.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 60,000,000 of the Asiatic<br/>
Religion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 160,000,000 Mahome-<br/>
dans
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are 200,000,000 Pagans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Christian Churches:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
170,000,000 profess the Roman<br/>
Catholic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
759,000,000 profess the Greek faith.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
80,000,000 profess the Protestant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Making free with the
Commandments.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late Dr. Lockhart, of the Col-<br/>
lege Church, Glasgow, when traveling<br/>
in England, was sojourning at an inn,<br/>
when the Sabbath came round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On entering the public room, and<br/>
about to set out for church, he found<br/>
two gentlemen preparing for a game<br/>
of chess. He addressed them in words<br/>
to this effect:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Gentlemen, have you locked up<br/>
your portmanteaus carefully ?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No! What! are there thieves in<br/>
this house ?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I do not say that," replied the<br/>
doctor, "only I was thinking that if<br/>
the waiter comes in and finds you<br/>
making free with the fourth command-<br/>
ment, he may think of making free<br/>
with the eighth."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Upon this, the gentlemen said there<br/>
was something in that, and so laid<br/>
aside their game.—-British Workman.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Slavery as a punishment for
Crime.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The Anti-Slavery Prohibitory<br/>
Amendment declares that "neither<br/>
slavery nor involuntary servitude shall<br/>
exist, except as a punishment for<br/>
crime". The ex-slaveholders have<br/>
fastened their keen eyes on the phrase<br/>
which we print in italics, and some of<br/>
them think that it will be quite easy<br/>
to re-establish slavery at the South<br/>
under the exception therein expressed.<br/>
Witness the following extract from the<br/>
Southern correspondence of the Boston<br/>
Daily Advertiser:]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the South Carolina Convention,<br/>
one of the leading up-country deleg-<br/>
ates, during the debate on the slavery<br/>
prohibition clause of the Constitution,<br/>
said, substantially, that the condition,<br/>
as well as the name, of slavery should<br/>
be prohibited; and in this view he took<br/>
exception to the phrase "neither<br/>
slavery nor involuntary servitude shall<br/>
exist except as a punishment for<br/>
crime," etc.; for, he argued, it will be<br/>
very easily possible for the legislature,<br/>
if so disposed, to re-establish the con-<br/>
dition of slavery by a system of crimes<br/>
and punishments impliedly authorized<br/>
by that clause. I noticed the argument<br/>
at the time, because it was identical<br/>
with one made last winter in the Sen-<br/>
ate by Mr. Sumner. Down here in<br/>
Southwestern Georgia is the man who<br/>
furnishes the practical illustration for<br/>
the argument. He is called Gen. John<br/>
T. Morgan, and he has been making<br/>
a speech on the negro question, which<br/>
the editor of his county paper indorses<br/>
as "sensible." "The grand point in his<br/>
speech," says the editor, "was that in<br/>
order to wield the bone and muscle of<br/>
the negro effectively in the various in-<br/>
dustrial pursuits of the South, we must<br/>
put him in competition with white<br/>
laborers; and we thought he was very<br/>
successful in its demonstration." The<br/>
abstract of his views on this point is<br/>
very brief; but it is full enough on the<br/>
main question as the following para-<br/>
graph shows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"He urged that, as the Constitution<br/>
gives the power to inflict involuntary<br/>
servitude as a punishment for crime, a<br/>
law should be so framed as so to enable<br/>
the judicial authorities of the state to<br/>
sell into bondage again those negroes<br/>
who should be found guilty of certain<br/>
crimes; and, in conclusion, said he<br/>
thought that this, in connection with<br/>
the whipping post and the pillory,<br/>
would do more to check vagrancy,<br/>
theft, robbery, and other crimes among<br/>
the negroes than all the penitentiaries<br/>
which could be built.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
POSITION OF THE COLORED RACE IN<br/>
EUROPE.—Europeans do not under-<br/>
stand that antipathy which American<br/>
affection pretends to feel against the<br/>
colored race. Alexander Dumas, the<br/>
quadroon, was the guest of princes in<br/>
Europe; his father, the mulatto, was a<br/>
renowned general in Napoleon's time;<br/>
his son, an octoroon, has just married<br/>
the widow Princess Narishkin. Count<br/>
Pushkin, the great Russian poet, too,<br/>
was a quadroon; so was Baron<br/>
Feuchtersleben, under-secretary of pub-<br/>
lic instruction in Austria; and, if we<br/>
go back to older times, the first Duke<br/>
of Tuscany, Alexandro Medici, who<br/>
reigned from 1530 to 1537, was a<br/>
mulatto, and the Emperor Charles V.<br/>
had so little antipathy to negro descent<br/>
that he gave his daughter Margaret in<br/>
marriage to the mulatto duke. His<br/>
portrait, with woolly hair and thick<br/>
lips, is still seen in the public gallery<br/>
of Florence, among the Dukes of Tus-<br/>
cany; and it gives one always a pe-<br/>
culiar pleasure to show his dark face<br/>
to the Americans, who speak with ter-<br/>
ror about miscegenation. Had Messrs.<br/>
Mackay and Sala studied the question<br/>
in Europe before they went in the<br/>
United States, they would not have<br/>
made themselves so ridiculous in their<br/>
correspondence.—Cor. Tribune.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEW EARTH.—But I do love<br/>
mountains, and I do hope that, if ever<br/>
we inherit "everlasting life," it may<br/>
be on this earth—this beautiful first<br/>
home of ours, with all its wealth of<br/>
precious memories, with all its pleas-<br/>
ant friends and sweet associations,<br/>
with all its sin and curse removed,<br/>
and with its "wilderness like Eden,<br/>
and its desert like the garden of the<br/>
Lord." I wonder if the often-noticed<br/>
light gladness of my nature, and the<br/>
ever-felt undertone of sadness, do not<br/>
both grow out of the same character-<br/>
istic—my intense appreciation of life.<br/>
I mean of living and of having my<br/>
friends and all God's creatures living<br/>
about me! Earth, air, and water, with<br/>
all their countless forms, are so beau-<br/>
tiful; friendship and love are so sweet;<br/>
knowledge is so interesting; and truth<br/>
so sublime; existence, in its sum total,<br/>
is such blessedness, and the "passing<br/>
away" of it is such an infinite loss,<br/>
that I am always happy in the present;<br/>
and sad in the past, in which I see so<br/>
much of it already gone; and sad in<br/>
the future, at so little distance down<br/>
which I see "come the full stop."<br/>
Oh! if we have not at least a chance<br/>
of immortality, it would seem almost<br/>
wicked in our good Father to mock<br/>
us with life at all. Do not these con-<br/>
tradictory terms prove, with at least<br/>
the force of a strong probability—<br/>
strong enough to found a strong con-<br/>
fidence upon—that we must live on!<br/>
And then those glowing promises,<br/>
that could not come to us only from<br/>
him and through men full of inspira-<br/>
tion: "To them who, by patient con-<br/>
tinuance in well-doing, seek for glory,<br/>
honor, and immortality, [he will give]<br/>
eternal life."—Prof. C. F. Mansfield,<br/>
May, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE "SANCY" DIAMOND.—The his-<br/>
tory of this diamond (weight fifty-four<br/>
carats) is curious. Nicolas Harlai,<br/>
Signeur of Sancy, its possessor, wish-<br/>
ing to raise money upon it for the be-<br/>
nefit of his friend, Henry IV., intrusted<br/>
it to the care of a faithful servant. The<br/>
man was beset by robbers and murder-<br/>
ed. His master recovered the body,<br/>
and calculating on his late vassal's fi-<br/>
delity, opened the stomach, where, as<br/>
he expected, he found his lost treasure.<br/>
He then carried out his intention,<br/>
pledged it to the Jews, and was never<br/>
afterward able to redeem it. In 1649<br/>
it belonged to Henrietta Maria, Dow-<br/>
ager Queen of England, from whom it<br/>
passed to the Duke of York. After his<br/>
abdication, the unlucky James sold it<br/>
to Louis XIV. for £25,000. During<br/>
the memorable days of September,<br/>
1792, it was stolen with the rest of the<br/>
regalia: it reappeared in 1838, when<br/>
the Princess Paul Demidoff bought it<br/>
from an agent of the Bourbons for<br/>
£76,000. Last winter it was on view<br/>
at Messrs. Garrard's, in London; and<br/>
finally it has returned to its native<br/>
land, being purchased for £90,000 by<br/>
Sir Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy, of Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ONE OF THE ANOMALIES OF LITER-<br/>
ARY HISTORY is, that is has often been<br/>
the lot of those men who have con-<br/>
tributed largely to the mirth or recrea-<br/>
tion of others to endure more than an<br/>
ordinary share of misery and want<br/>
in their own lives. The most enter-<br/>
taining portions of literature have been<br/>
written by men whose hearts have been<br/>
bowed down by sorrow, and at mo-<br/>
ments when that sorrow has been<br/>
heaviest. It was in the gloom of a<br/>
mother's death, deepened by his own<br/>
poverty, that Johnson penned the<br/>
charming tale of "Rasselas;" it was<br/>
in the chill desolation of a bare and<br/>
fireless garret that poor Goldsmith,<br/>
the beloved vagabond of literature,<br/>
sketched the brightest pictures of<br/>
domestic happiness the world ever had;<br/>
it was from a sick-bed, in sore distress,<br/>
and in a necessitous exile, that Tom<br/>
Hood shook all England with laughter.<br/>
The enchantment of Scott, the satire<br/>
of Jerrold, half the gems of<br/>
English wit and humor, have been<br/>
thrown out by genius in its most<br/>
sorrowful moments.—-Dublin Univer-<br/>
sity Magazine.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Important if True
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent of the Scientific<br/>
American says: "If you have a boat<br/>
that leaks badly, and it is a strong cur-<br/>
rent, or if you are towing it up stream,<br/>
all you have to do to keep it dry is<br/>
this: Bore a hole through the bottom<br/>
and insert a piece of tin or iron half<br/>
round through the hole, letting it ex-<br/>
tend a few inches below the bottom<br/>
of the boat, and all the water will run<br/>
out without any labor. I think a ship<br/>
at sea could be kept afloat, if you<br/>
could keep her going four miles per<br/>
hour."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Philosopher Answered.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Frenchman who had won a high<br/>
rank among men of science, yet who<br/>
denied the God who is the author of<br/>
science, was crossing the Great Sahara<br/>
in company with an Arab guide. He<br/>
noticed, with a sneer, that at certain<br/>
times his guide, whatever obstacles<br/>
might arise, put them all aside, and<br/>
kneeling on the burning sands, called<br/>
on his God. Day after day passed,<br/>
and still the Arab never failed; till at<br/>
last one evening the philosopher, when<br/>
he rose from his knees, asked with a<br/>
contemptuous smile, "How do you<br/>
know there is a God?" The guide fix-<br/>
ed his burning eye on the scoffer for<br/>
a moment in wonder, and then said<br/>
solemnly, "How do I know there is<br/>
a God? How did I know that a man,<br/>
and not a camel, passed my hut last<br/>
night in the darkness? was it not by<br/>
the print of his foot on the sand? Even<br/>
so—-and he pointed at the sun, whose<br/>
last rays were flashing over the lonely<br/>
desert—-"that footprint is not that of<br/>
a man."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Where Wealth Begins.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wealth begins in a tight roof that<br/>
kieps the rain and wind out; in a<br/>
good pump that yields you plenty of<br/>
sweet water; in two suits of clothes so<br/>
as to change your dress when you are<br/>
wet; in dry sticks to burn; in a good<br/>
double-wicked lamp, and three meals;<br/>
in a horse or a locomotive, to cross the<br/>
land; in a boat to cross the sea; in<br/>
tools to work with; in books to read;<br/>
and so in giving, on all sides by tools<br/>
and auxiliaries, the greatest possible<br/>
extension to our powers, as if it added<br/>
feet, and hands, and eyes, and blood,<br/>
length to the day, and knowledge and<br/>
good will.—Emerson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Be Good Humored.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chicago Journal commences a<br/>
"plea for good humor" as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our readers have remarked that we<br/>
sprinkle our columns with things sub-<br/>
stantial. We do this on purpose, and<br/>
with a purpose. We believe in "run-<br/>
ning" the cheerful, as well as the<br/>
cloudy side of human affairs. Life is<br/>
sober, the times are stern, people are<br/>
grave or mad. There is little jollity<br/>
in America. It's the all work and no<br/>
play makes Jack a dull boy, which<br/>
predominates in the American dispo-<br/>
sition. Leisure is rare, sport is rarer<br/>
and laughter is rarer than all. Grav-<br/>
ity becloudes the countinances of men<br/>
street. Men look sober and women<br/>
sad. Business! Business! There is<br/>
no end to business.—The social circle<br/>
is broken up, home is a remembered<br/>
dream.—Men and women meet occa-<br/>
sionally, and but to bow and say good<br/>
bye
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A golden rule for a young lady, is<br/>
to converse always with your female<br/>
friends, as if a gentleman were of the<br/>
party ; and with young men, as if<br/>
your female companions were present.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest objection to those who<br/>
mean well is, that they seldom find<br/>
time to carry out their intentions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A good deal of the consolation of-<br/>
fered in the world is about as solacing<br/>
as the assurance of the man to his<br/>
wife when she fell into the river.<br/>
" You'll find ground at the bottom,<br/>
my dear."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Southern paper thinks that<br/>
"something is on foot in South Caro-<br/>
lina." She herself is on foot. She<br/>
used to ride "the high horse," but<br/>
can't now.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A specimen of scientific quartette<br/>
singing the verse given out runs<br/>
thus :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Welcome, sweet day of rest,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That saw the Lord arise ;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Welcome to this reviving breast,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And these rejoicing eyes.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the choir renders it :—<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Wow—kaw, waw daw aw raw,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thaw aw thaw law aw waw :<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Waw—kaw, taw thaw raw raw yaw<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}raw<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Aw thaw raw jaw saw awz.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
A Cleveland speculator fell asleep<br/>
in church, from which he was waked<br/>
by the pastor's reading. Surely<br/>
there is a vein for the silver and a<br/>
place for the gold where they find it."<br/>
Jumping to his feet he shook his book<br/>
at the minister, crying, "I'll take five<br/>
hundred shares."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fretful Christian wrongs his<br/>
master sadly, for he seems to tell<br/>
every-body (what he knows is not<br/>
true) that Christ's yoke is hard and<br/>
his burden heavy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some fellows who tried to rob a<br/>
hen-roost in Winstead, Conn., found<br/>
when they went to go out, that the<br/>
door had blown too, and fastened them<br/>
in. The cries of the hens alarmed<br/>
the proprietor, who released the fel-<br/>
lows on their paying £25, and they<br/>
requested the newspapers should say<br/>
nothing about it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Life is but a field of blackberry and<br/>
raspberry bushes. Mean people squat<br/>
down and pick the fruits no matter<br/>
how black their fingers; while genius,<br/>
proud and perpendicular, strides fier-<br/>
cely on, and gets nothing but scratches<br/>
and holes torn in his trousers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the worst seat a man can<br/>
sit on? self con-ceit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Perfection alone can bear with imper-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}fection.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}People behind the time should be fed<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}on ketchup.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Epitaph on a portrait painter—Taken<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}from life.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He who has good health is a rich man,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}and rarely knows it.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The attempt to read many books<br/>
often ends in thoroughly reading<br/>
none.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who enters upon a career of<br/>
crime must come to a halt, or a halter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man hanging is better than a<br/>
vagabond; he has visible means of<br/>
support.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You needn't have such a reverence<br/>
for truth as always to stand at an<br/>
awful distance from it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He that can keep his temper is bet-<br/>
ter than he that can keep a carriage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man that can be flattered is not<br/>
necessarily a fool, but you can always<br/>
make one of him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A fellow who got drunk on election<br/>
day, said it was owing to his efforts<br/>
to put down "party spirits."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is the opinion of the doctor that<br/>
the lawyer gets his living by plunder,<br/>
while the lawyer thinks the doctor<br/>
gets his by "pillage."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a whole sermon in the<br/>
saying of the old Persian : "In all<br/>
thy quarrels leave open the door of<br/>
reconciliation." We should never<br/>
forget it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr Johnson says : "The habit of<br/>
looking on the best side of every event<br/>
is worth more than a thousand pounds<br/>
a year."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Impure words always leave there<br/>
stain. No story, however funny, should<br/>
ever be told, if it will leave in the<br/>
memory unclean associations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The true secret of happiness is al-<br/>
ways to have a little less time than<br/>
one wants, and a little more money<br/>
than one needs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many persons have their best so-<br/>
ciety in their own hearts and souls<br/>
—-the purest memories of earth and<br/>
the sweetest hopes of heaven; their<br/>
loneliness cannot be called solitude.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is difficult to unite tranquility<br/>
in accepting, and energy in using<br/>
the facts of life : but it is not impos-<br/>
sible; if it be, it is impossible to be<br/>
happy.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-19_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Lord vs. Laborer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following story of an English<br/>
peer is going the rounds. Lord S. is<br/>
an amateur boxer, who prides himself<br/>
upon his strength and dexterity in<br/>
pugilism:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dining one day with the great bank-<br/>
er R——-, Lord S. hearing some<br/>
stories of the prowess of a farm laborer<br/>
on the estate, at once made a note of<br/>
the man's name and address. Next<br/>
morning his lordship mounted his horse<br/>
and rode off in search of the celebrated<br/>
athlete. He found him digging in his<br/>
garden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My good fellow," said the peer,<br/>
dismounting, pulling off his gloves,<br/>
"I've heard a great deal of your<br/>
strength and skill; let us have a fight."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The laborer looked at his visitor<br/>
for a moment without speaking; and<br/>
then, suddenly grappling with him,<br/>
flung him over the hedge,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I say my good man" cried Lord<br/>
S. as soon as he recovered his senses<br/>
"will you do me a favor!" "What<br/>
haven't you had enough yet?" ex-<br/>
claimed the laborer, sulkily. "Oh yes<br/>
as far as I am personally concerned,<br/>
but please throw my horse over too."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE is hereby giv-<br/>
en that the business of<br/>
the China Traders Insurance<br/>
Company Limited will here-<br/>
after be conducted by Messrs.<br/>
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
to whom I have this day trans-<br/>
ferred the 'agency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, April 5th 1866.
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C. CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
wil be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S & Co with their patronage areassure-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
