---
linkTitle: 'May 10th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 10th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 10th'
date: 2025-12-05T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 41
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, May 10th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 18.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dr. Kitto;
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
OR
THE REMARKABLE WORKHOUSE BOY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very sad to think of the many re-<br/>
spectable families who are brought to ruin<br/>
by intemperance, and the number of in-<br/>
nocent victims who suffer every kind of<br/>
misery from the effects of that vice. I am<br/>
about to relate a most affecting history of<br/>
the life of a great man, who died only four<br/>
years ago; and whose home in childhood<br/>
was desolated by the bad habits of his<br/>
mother and father, of the subject of my<br/>
narrative, were reduced to poverty through<br/>
the love of strong drink.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Cecilia Picken was a very respec-<br/>
table intelligent woman, living in 1796, at<br/>
the pleasant village of Brixton, near Ply-<br/>
mouth. Her husband was a man in a good<br/>
trade, as a bootmaker. They had one little<br/>
girl named Mary; three sons by Mrs. Pic-<br/>
ken's former husband were all grown-up<br/>
and settled at a distance from their mother<br/>
and stepfather. One stormy night, when<br/>
Picken had been on some matter of business<br/>
to Plymouth, he was prevailed on by foolish<br/>
friends, to partake freely of strong drink<br/>
—and being generally a very moderate<br/>
man, perhaps he drank without being fully<br/>
aware of the effects of the liquor. He<br/>
mounted his horse to ride home to Brixton,<br/>
but alas! when about halfway on his road,<br/>
probably overcome with either dizziness or<br/>
sleep, he fell heavily from his horse, and<br/>
died instantly. If any thing could add to<br/>
the widow's grief at this sad termination<br/>
of her husband's life, it was that she ex-<br/>
pected another infant in a few weeks. The<br/>
poor little babe, fatherless before its birth,<br/>
came to add to the mother's cares. It was<br/>
a girl, and they named her Elizabeth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The widow was not a woman to sit down<br/>
and nurse her sorrow—she felt it a duty to<br/>
her two helpless little girls, to struggle<br/>
with her grief, she was industrious and<br/>
much respected by her neighbours, by<br/>
whom she was generally called "THE MIS-<br/>
TRESS." By dint of great exertions she<br/>
managed to bring up her daughters well—<br/>
but as they grew towards womanhood, in<br/>
the hope of improving her circumstances,<br/>
the widow removed to Plymouth. In the<br/>
same street where she took up her abode,<br/>
two young men, brothers, came to reside.<br/>
The elder, William, was an engineer; the<br/>
younger, John, a stone mason—and both<br/>
were intelligent young men in good cir-<br/>
cumstances. These two brothers formed<br/>
an attachment for the two sisters, Mary and<br/>
Elizabeth, and it would have been well if<br/>
a few more years had passed over the heads<br/>
of these young people before they had<br/>
thought of marrying. But trade was good,<br/>
and all seemed fair-weather prospects. The<br/>
sisters were both very pleasing, but very<br/>
different. Mary was tall, high-spirited,<br/>
with a rather imperious manner. Eliza-<br/>
beth though plainer than her sister, was<br/>
more agreeable, from her greater gentle-<br/>
ness. In 1803, the marriage of John with<br/>
the younger sister took place, the bride<br/>
was scarcely eighteen, and the bridegroom<br/>
only twenty. There was only one dark<br/>
cloud hovering over their otherwise clear<br/>
prospect—both the brothers joined freely<br/>
in the use of strong drink. Being clever<br/>
young men their company was prized, and<br/>
when William, who married Mary, began,<br/>
as well as his brother, to neglect his home<br/>
of an evening, it was the commencement<br/>
of bad days. On December 4th, 1804, a<br/>
child was born to John and Elizabeth—in<br/>
whom they gave the father's Christian<br/>
name—a delicate child, destined in after<br/>
years to many trials, and to many triumphs.<br/>
His sorrows in his father's house, began<br/>
soon—for by the time that John the son<br/>
was four years old, John the father had<br/>
injured his circumstances and his good<br/>
name by intemperance. At this period,<br/>
the grandmother, Mrs. Picken, pitying the<br/>
little delicate boy, took him to her home,<br/>
as her special charge—and for a few years<br/>
he had a happy childhood. Unable and<br/>
seemingly unwilling to join in the rough<br/>
play of other children of his age, the boy<br/>
was a delighte-l listener to his grandmoth-<br/>
er's budget of stories, and early began to<br/>
read for himself all the entertaining books<br/>
that could be bought or borrowed for him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was one disadvantage arising from<br/>
John being brought up in his grandmoth-<br/>
er's home—his parents being relieved of<br/>
their responsibilities, evidently thought<br/>
more of their younger children, and John,<br/>
when he occasionally came to their home,<br/>
seemed more like a visitor, than a child of<br/>
the household. At that time, the boy did<br/>
not feel, perhaps, did not observe this.<br/>
Happy in the tender love and care of his<br/>
good grandmother, his affectionate heart<br/>
most gratefully returned her love. But the<br/>
course of intemperance is like a fire, it<br/>
consumes all before it; and the home of<br/>
the once happy couple was the scene of<br/>
want and strife, and to add to the misery,<br/>
Mrs. Picken had sold all her little property<br/>
to assist her family, and was now in her<br/>
old age attacked with illness that made it<br/>
needful she should reside with her daughter<br/>
Elizabeth; so that when John was ten<br/>
years old, he became with his sick grand-<br/>
mother, dependent on his parents. The<br/>
father was now merely a journeyman<br/>
mason, and often out of employment. He<br/>
did not try to keep his little thoughtful boy<br/>
at school, and indeed, John had very little<br/>
schooling, having only attended for a few<br/>
months at a time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mother was so reduced, that she had<br/>
to go out charing to earn a trifle for her<br/>
family, and the father sometime took John<br/>
to help him in his trade, and when Saturday<br/>
night came, would send home the poor<br/>
boy without a farthing, while he spent his<br/>
wages in the alehouse. One day a house<br/>
in Batter street, Plymouth, was being re-<br/>
paired—and John then in his thirteenth<br/>
year, and small of his age, was carrying up<br/>
a load of slates to the roof, he had just<br/>
reached the topmost round, and was step-<br/>
ping off the ladder on to the roof, when his<br/>
foot slipped, and he fell five and thirty<br/>
feet on to the stone pavement of the back-<br/>
yard of the house. The poor boy was lifted<br/>
up insensible, bleeding from his mouth<br/>
and nostrils, BUT NOT FROM HIS EARS.<br/>
He lay for a fortnight in a stupor, and then<br/>
consciousness returned. The first thing he<br/>
noticed, was the total silence of the room,<br/>
and he thought that all were keeping so<br/>
still, out of a kind concern for his weak-<br/>
ness, but yet he wondered why no one<br/>
spoke to him; at last he was strong enough<br/>
to say, "Why do you not speak?" To his<br/>
amazement, a reply was written on a<br/>
slate, and handed to him, the words were,<br/>
"YOU ARE DEAF." Yes! this was the<br/>
meaning of all the dumb-show he had ob-<br/>
served! Never more was he to hear a sound!<br/>
The full force of his great grief was not<br/>
felt all at once by the poor boy; for four<br/>
months that he was conlined to bed, the<br/>
silence conduced to his recovery; and in<br/>
four months after that, eight months in<br/>
all, his health was partially restored, but<br/>
he was afflicted for life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He now found the advantage of being<br/>
able to read, and he improved himself in<br/>
writing, so much so, that he tried to earn<br/>
a trifle by writing labels neatly. The kind-<br/>
ness of neighbours supplied him with books<br/>
but not of a very useful sort; and his efforts,<br/>
many and ingenious as they were, all failed<br/>
in enabling him to get even a scanty liveli-<br/>
hood. To add to his sorrow, his dear,<br/>
kind grandmother, the only earthly friend<br/>
who really loved him, was obliged to re-<br/>
move to Brixton. Helpless herself, she<br/>
could not help him, except by her prayers,<br/>
and they were constant. Yes! readers,<br/>
and though she did not live to see it, they<br/>
were answered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So poor deaf John was now dependent<br/>
entirely on his parents; and they evidently<br/>
feeling impatient of the burden, made<br/>
application to the parish, and the guardians<br/>
agreed to receive him. November 15th,<br/>
1819, he was placed among the boys in<br/>
the workhouse. A cruel device was em-<br/>
ployed to get the unsuspecting youth there.<br/>
He was taken to the workhouse in ignorance<br/>
that there was any intention of leaving<br/>
him there, and when the doors were closed<br/>
upon him, "his anguish was indescribable."<br/>
How hardening is the effect of intemper-<br/>
ance—here was this boy's father, a skilful<br/>
mechanic, not more than thirty-six years<br/>
old, and yet he put his eldest son, a good stu-<br/>
dious youth, who had received the injury<br/>
that afflicted him, by doing work for his<br/>
father beyond his age and strength—he put<br/>
him in the workhouse, apparently glad to<br/>
get rid of him—and even the mother made<br/>
no resistance. Bowed down by sorrows,<br/>
she seemed spirit-broken. There is seldom<br/>
a night so dark that no ray of light appears,<br/>
and God put it into the heart of the gover-<br/>
nor of the workhouse to be kind to poor<br/>
John, and the clerk to the Board of Guar-<br/>
dians, Mr. Burnard, soon discovered that<br/>
this was a wonderful workhouse boy, and<br/>
a friendship was commenced that lasted<br/>
for life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 5th April.-—Napoleon has<br/>
decided that the French Troops shall<br/>
leave Mexico within twenty months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Treaty of commerce promulgated be-<br/>
tween Zollverein and Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BOMBAY, 7th April.-—News has been<br/>
received from Aden of the release of the<br/>
Abyssinian captives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
King Theodore received Mr. Rassam<br/>
with great honour; made him handsome<br/>
presents, and released Consul Cameron<br/>
with the other captives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Crown Princess of Prussia gave<br/>
birth to a daughter at Potsdam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian Government decisively<br/>
refuses to withdraw the order of Mobile.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AMERICA, 31st March.-—House of Re-<br/>
presentative refuses permission to in-<br/>
troduce a Bill for an export duty on<br/>
Cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Order issued for the disbandment of<br/>
volunteers in Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE HOME NEWS.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The popularity of President Johnson<br/>
continues to be manifested by enthusias-<br/>
tic demonstrations out-of-doors. Mr.<br/>
Stanton has resigned. The Cabinet will<br/>
be re-organised. A resolution has been<br/>
proposed to the Committee of Foreign<br/>
Affairs for guaranteeing a loan to the<br/>
Mexican Republic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fresh discoveries of pikes and arrests<br/>
of Fenians have been made in Ireland.<br/>
Sir Hugh Rose has issued a general order<br/>
warning the army. Stephens is said to<br/>
have effected his escape to America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Manning and other Roman pre-<br/>
lates have protested against any Parlia-<br/>
mentary oath that recognizes the Act of<br/>
Settlement or the supremacy of the<br/>
Queen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The suspension of the Habeas Corpus<br/>
Act in Ireland has produced great ex-<br/>
citement amongst the Fenians in America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large meetings in favour of the new<br/>
Reform Bill are being held in various<br/>
parts of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The election of Mazzini for Messina<br/>
has been annulled by a vote of the Ital-<br/>
ian Parliament, 191 against, and 107 for<br/>
the election.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 20th of March was observed as a<br/>
day of humiliation in the diocese of Lon-<br/>
don, with reference to the cattle plague.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Further accounts seem to confirm the<br/>
rumour that the Fenians in America<br/>
have resolved on the invasion Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prince Alfred has been duly installed<br/>
Master of the Trinity House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A battle without result has been fought<br/>
between the troops of Brazil and Para-<br/>
guay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ex-Queen of the French died on<br/>
march 24.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bishop of London is seriously ill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Cholera Conference have adopted<br/>
the proposal to stop the sea communica-<br/>
tion between the Hedjaz and Egypt in<br/>
case of a fresh outbreak, but the Porte<br/>
does not dare to enforce the measure. It<br/>
is said that cholera has reappeared in<br/>
Egypt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fenianism seems to be dying out. The<br/>
Cattle Plague Bill is working satisfactor-<br/>
ily. A great Hall of Science and Art is<br/>
to be built at South Kensington. Sir<br/>
Charles Darling, Governor of Victoria,<br/>
has been recalled. Bishop Colenso is<br/>
formally excommunicated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Despatches from all parts of the coun-<br/>
try represent the people as generally<br/>
endorsing the President's veto and speech,<br/>
and numerous delegations have visited<br/>
the President to offer him their support.<br/>
The Senate has adopted the resolution<br/>
of the Reconstruction Committee, exclu-<br/>
ding the Southern representatives until<br/>
Congress declares the rebellious states to<br/>
be entitled to representation, by 29 a-<br/>
gainst 18 votes. The Military Committee<br/>
of the House of Representatives have re-<br/>
ported a resolution to disband the South-<br/>
ern militia, to prevent their reorganiza-<br/>
tion. At a Fenian meeting held in Wash-<br/>
ington on the 28th Feb., intimations were<br/>
given of a plan to seize British Columbia,<br/>
and establish a harbour for privateers on<br/>
the Pacific coast. The British Minister<br/>
is understood to have forwarded a com-<br/>
munication to the State Department on<br/>
the subject, which formed a topic for dis-<br/>
cussion at a Cabinet meeting. A pro-<br/>
clamation will probably be issued by the<br/>
Government against any violation of the<br/>
neutrality laws. The public debt was, on<br/>
the 1st March, $2,820,000,000 being an<br/>
increase of three and a-half millions since<br/>
the 1st February. Gold, on the evening<br/>
of the 3rd March, 131. Exchange on<br/>
London, 145. Cotton steady; middling<br/>
upland, 44c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lloyd Garrison has delivered a public<br/>
discourse violently denouncing President<br/>
Johnson, and charging him with intend-<br/>
ing, if he dared, to make a COUP D'ETAT,<br/>
either by forcing the rebels into Con-<br/>
gress at the point of the bayonet, or by<br/>
driving the Congress out of the Capitol.<br/>
The President, he said ought to be tried<br/>
by both houses, and dismissed from of-<br/>
fice. The Republican caucus have ap-<br/>
pointed a committee to inaugurate deter-<br/>
mined political measures against Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson's policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that Fenian representa-<br/>
tives are in Washington pressing their<br/>
claims upon the United States Govern-<br/>
ment for the recognition of Ireland as a<br/>
belligerent power. They claim that the<br/>
nullification of all constitutional law by<br/>
the establishment of martial law in Ire-<br/>
land entitles the Irish forces to the rights<br/>
of belligerents. Sir Frederick Bruce is<br/>
said to have protested against any such<br/>
application being entertained. The sus-<br/>
pension of the Habeas Corpus Act in<br/>
Ireland caused intense sensation in Fenian<br/>
circles. Meetings were called through-<br/>
out the country to determine their course<br/>
of action. Upon receipt of the intelli-<br/>
gence, Mahoney immediately issued a<br/>
circular from the military department,<br/>
urging the people to be prepared for im-<br/>
mediate action, and look out for secret<br/>
orders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Southern advices disclose nothing of<br/>
importance of a political character. The<br/>
planters were making preparations for<br/>
the spring planting, and were generally<br/>
hopeful of being able to contract for<br/>
labor enough to secure average crops.<br/>
The agents of the Freedmen’s Bureau<br/>
are said to be very unpopular with the<br/>
people, who have frequent disputes with<br/>
them, all of which, however, are generally<br/>
adjusted by the military authorities to the<br/>
satisfaction of both parties. No cases of<br/>
violence are reported.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The constitutional amendment exclud-<br/>
ing negroes from the basis of represent-<br/>
ation in all States where they are not<br/>
allowed to vote, was considered in the<br/>
Senate. Three substitutes, conferring<br/>
the right of suffrage upon negroes, were<br/>
offered, but rejected. A vote was final-<br/>
ly taken on the original amendment, and<br/>
the result was 25 yeas to 22 nays. The<br/>
amendment, failing to receive the required<br/>
two-thirds vote, was declared defeated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Recruiting for the Mexican Republic is<br/>
reported to be progressing at New Or-<br/>
leans. According to intelligence from<br/>
Vera Cruz, it was asserted that Maxi-<br/>
milian had authorized the issue of 20<br/>
million of dollars in legal tender currency.<br/>
It is reported, via San Francisco, that<br/>
the imperial commander at Sonora had<br/>
seized freight trains belonging to Ameri-<br/>
can citizens, and prohibited further tran-<br/>
sportation through Sonora by Americans.<br/>
Advices received in New York from<br/>
Panama state that the Spanish commo-<br/>
dore, Nunez, had proposed an armistice<br/>
to Chili, stipulating, however, for the<br/>
return of the captured vessel the Gova-<br/>
donga and the Spanish prisoners, and<br/>
the appointment of peace commissioners.<br/>
These propositions were refused by Chili;<br/>
and Nunez then proposed that the Chilian<br/>
Minister for Foreign Affairs should go on<br/>
board the Spanish flagship, in order to<br/>
make some arrangement. In reply to<br/>
this the Chilian government informed<br/>
Nunez that any proposition he had had<br/>
to make would be received at the Chilian<br/>
capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President describes the Freedmen’s<br/>
Bureau Bill as unconstitutional and unne-<br/>
cessary, and as proposing to establish by<br/>
Congressional authority military jurisdic-<br/>
tion over all parts of the United States<br/>
containing refugee freedmen. The measure,<br/>
he says, would lead to arbitrary acts by<br/>
government officials, would abolish trial<br/>
by jury, which is guaranteed by the Con-<br/>
stitution, and would make the Freedmen’s<br/>
Bureau, established as an extraordinary<br/>
military measure, a permanent institution<br/>
with enlarged powers. It is, moreover, in-<br/>
consistent with a time of peace. The Con-<br/>
stitution never contemplated Congres-<br/>
sional legislation for the support of indi-<br/>
gent persons of any race. Legislation im-<br/>
plying that negroes are not self-sustaining<br/>
would tend to injure their character and<br/>
prosperity. The President animadverts<br/>
upon the fact, that the 11 States mainly af-<br/>
fected by the bill are shut off from repre-<br/>
sentation by Congress, and says that the<br/>
principle is firmly fixed in the minds of<br/>
the American people that there shall be no<br/>
taxation without representation. Congress<br/>
can decide the qualifications of its mem-<br/>
bers, but every State should be allowed re-<br/>
presentation in the persons of loyal repre-<br/>
sentatives. He fully adheres to his recon-<br/>
struction policy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Grant has directed all comman-<br/>
ders of military to send to headquarters<br/>
copies of newspapers expressing disloyalty<br/>
and hostility to the government. The sup-<br/>
pression of papers will be made from head-<br/>
quarters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A densely-thronged meeting was held<br/>
on February 22nd at the Cooper Institute,<br/>
New York, where all classes of politics<br/>
were represented. An address and reso-<br/>
lutions were adopted urging the admission<br/>
of loyal Southern representatives to Con-<br/>
gress, approving the veto, endorsing Mr.<br/>
Johnson’s policy, and recommending the<br/>
calling of another meeting whenever the<br/>
exigency demanded it, to promote har-<br/>
mony in the public councils of the country.<br/>
Mr. Seward made a speech, in which he<br/>
said that the country was in no peril, no<br/>
matter whether the Congressional or the<br/>
Presidential policy prevailed. This con-<br/>
fidence arose from the conviction that<br/>
there never was, and never can be, any<br/>
successful process for the restoration of<br/>
union and harmony among the States, ex-<br/>
cept that with which the President show-<br/>
ed himself satisfied. Loyal men from the<br/>
Southern States would, sooner or later,<br/>
during this or some other Congressional<br/>
term, be received into the National Legis-<br/>
lature. The restoration would then be<br/>
complete. Territorial government would<br/>
require greater imperial powers than Napo-<br/>
leon possesses. Maximilian's task, though<br/>
he engages two emperors and two imperial<br/>
organizations, with their forces, was not<br/>
thought the most wise or hopeful political<br/>
enterprise of the day. The Congressional<br/>
policy was impracticable and vicious.-—Mr.<br/>
Seward telegraphed from Washington as<br/>
follows:—-“It is all right. The Union is<br/>
restored. The country is safe. The Pre-<br/>
sident's speech is triumphant, and the<br/>
country will be happy.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Times’ New York correspondent<br/>
thinks the President will be upbraided [?] by the<br/>
nation. He “has not yet heard, on any<br/>
subject, so strong, decided, and unanimous<br/>
an expression of the public sentiment as<br/>
upon his act.”:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is most fully and warmly approved;<br/>
all classes express their satisfaction that<br/>
there is a man at the head of public affairs<br/>
who has determination and self-reliance<br/>
enough to throw himself against a power-<br/>
ful and overbearing party; they are ap-<br/>
prehensive of the consequences of con-<br/>
tinued disunion in the country, and they<br/>
fear that the evils and disasters of the war<br/>
will be repeated in another form if the<br/>
policy of Mr. Sumner and his followers is<br/>
to prevail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The astonishment and anger of the Radi-<br/>
cals, he adds, are extreme, and some of<br/>
them are making threats of impeachment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
George Frances Train, of eminent no-<br/>
toriety in England as well as America, has<br/>
gone in for Fenianism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the house of Representatives, on<br/>
the 12th ult., the anniversary of Mr.<br/>
Lincoln’s birthday, Mr. George Ban-<br/>
croft, the historian delivered a eulogi-<br/>
um upon the life and character of A-<br/>
braham Lincoln, on which occasion<br/>
President Johnson, the members of<br/>
the cabinet and of Congress, the Di-<br/>
plomatic Corps, and the army and the<br/>
navy officials were present. In his<br/>
address Mr. Bancroft censured the<br/>
course adopted by England during the<br/>
Rebellion, and declared that the Mex-<br/>
ican republic must rise again. It<br/>
seems to have been a foolish speech.<br/>
He succeeded, the Washington corres-<br/>
pondent of the Times says, “in making<br/>
the whole affair as undignified and dis-<br/>
creditable as any man in the country<br/>
could have done, tried he ever so hard.<br/>
To the astonishment of every respecta-<br/>
ble man in the House, Mr. Bancroft<br/>
occupied more than two hours in an<br/>
elaborate attack upon the chief Powers<br/>
of Europe, concentrating the whole<br/>
torrent of his bitterness and spleen up-<br/>
on England. The surprise of the<br/>
whole Diplomatic body at the energy<br/>
and vehemence of Mr. Bancroft’s de-<br/>
nunciations of England—for he almost<br/>
screamed out the venomous passage in a<br/>
high and broken voice, and with<br/>
wild gestures and distorted counte-<br/>
nance—was extreme, and it was fully<br/>
shared by many of the spectators.<br/>
The bulk of the audience clapped<br/>
their hands loudly with applause; but<br/>
the Senators, almost to a man, sat si-<br/>
lent.” Mr. Bancroft’s speech has, we<br/>
are told, given great offence to the<br/>
Diplomatic Circle at Washington.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Jamaica.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dates are to the 24th Feb. The Royal<br/>
Commission had been sitting from day to<br/>
day and receiving evidence—the testi-<br/>
mony of the whites and negroes being very<br/>
contradictory. All the political prisoners<br/>
tried by the special commission have been<br/>
found guilty and sentenced to imprison-<br/>
ment, varying from three weeks to twelve<br/>
months, the latter sentence being passed<br/>
on Mr. Levien, editor of the COUNTRY<br/>
UNION. A charge of murder had been<br/>
preferred against Provost Marshal Ram-<br/>
say; but it is expected that the Act of<br/>
Indemnity will shield him from any pen-<br/>
alty. The Royal Commission hoped to<br/>
have concluded by the 10th March, and<br/>
to leave Jamaica on the 24th. Mr. Eyre<br/>
continued to receive addresses of sym-<br/>
pathy and approval.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hot spings
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Or, COOKING WITHOUT FIRE
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In New Zealand there are numerous<br/>
boiling springs. Travelers and mis-<br/>
sionaries frequently look at these springs<br/>
whilst their native guides superintend<br/>
the boiling of the food for their wel-<br/>
come repast. Villages of the natives<br/>
are to be found near these volcanic<br/>
springs. They are rather dangerous<br/>
localities for a home, but the natives<br/>
prefer them as they thereby require no<br/>
fires, and all their cooking being done<br/>
in the hot springs, the women's back<br/>
are not broken by carrying fuel: more<br/>
over, from the warmth of the ground<br/>
they are able to raise crops several<br/>
weeks earlier than their neighbours.<br/>
Sad accidents, however, sometimes<br/>
arise from children and strangers fall-<br/>
ing into these boiling caldrons.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
May 10th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Resume.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our last European mail, by the<br/>
steamer Chou Phya, and the sailing<br/>
vessel Edward Marquard, bringing us<br/>
European papers down to the 26th of<br/>
March, American papers to the 6th of<br/>
Feb. and telegrams from London to<br/>
the 15th alto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The political elements of the Wes-<br/>
tern world are far from being "hush-<br/>
ed to peace." The portentous cloud<br/>
that had been hanging over Ireland<br/>
many months, seems to have been<br/>
somewhat broken but not dissipated.<br/>
It remains to be seen whether the<br/>
suspension of the "Habeas Corpus<br/>
Act" will impart adequate power<br/>
to quench, not to say "all the<br/>
fiery darts" of the rebels, but all that<br/>
are the most dangerous to the peace<br/>
of the common wealth. We fervent-<br/>
ly hope and expect that we shall soon<br/>
hear such good news, but must confess<br/>
that we are not without many fears<br/>
that the incipient rebellion will yet<br/>
terribly shake our mother country and<br/>
convulse the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia and Austria are still exceed-<br/>
ingly watchful of each other, lest the<br/>
bone of contention between them,<br/>
having much meat on it, shall be<br/>
monopolized by one or the other na-<br/>
tion. "Prussia insists upon having<br/>
and annexing to her dominions the<br/>
Duchy of Schleswig and Lauenburg.<br/>
Austria declines being thus overborne."<br/>
The two powers have been standing<br/>
in the attitude of menace toward each<br/>
other many months. Prussia flattering<br/>
herself that Austria would by long<br/>
pressure yield the point from a con-<br/>
sciousness of her own comparative<br/>
weakness, seems at last to have been<br/>
"takenaback" by the determination of<br/>
her rival to face steadily and unflin-<br/>
ching the lion with all the eyes and<br/>
strength of her empire. Though<br/>
Bismark the Prussian prime leader<br/>
seems undaunted in playing his game<br/>
for the premiership of all the German<br/>
States, the king of Prussia, it would<br/>
seem, has become alarmed and has<br/>
come to a significant halt. He even<br/>
seems to have made up his mind, that<br/>
a war with Austria must be avoided.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
France is quiet at home and gene-<br/>
rally abroad. She manifestly feels much<br/>
perplexed with the Mexican question,<br/>
and wishes that she had never placed<br/>
so much confidence in the mere hu-<br/>
man prophecies of the permanent dis-<br/>
rupture of the U. S. which but too<br/>
successfully tempted her to go strange-<br/>
ly out of her way to force the esta-<br/>
blishment of a Monarchy on a weak<br/>
Republic, when that Republic could<br/>
not call in her neighbor the U. States<br/>
to aid her in resistance. While France<br/>
is too proud to feel happy in the<br/>
thought of withdrawing her troops<br/>
from the aid of Maximillian as insisted<br/>
upon by the U. S. it is now almost uni-<br/>
versally believed that she has determin-<br/>
ed to do it rather than to run the risk<br/>
of the consequences of resistance of<br/>
so righteous a demand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The political atmosphere in the<br/>
U. S. is of an equally character. The<br/>
rebellion in the South though conquer-<br/>
ed, seems to be but smothered up in<br/>
the hearts of the majority of the pres-<br/>
ent leaders. Mighty efforts are being<br/>
made by them to regain their former<br/>
power in Congress. Nearly all the<br/>
North who sympathized with them in<br/>
their rebellion, are now using their<br/>
influence to get them restored, even<br/>
with the embers burning in their bo-<br/>
soms against the yankees and against<br/>
the freedom of the African race, of<br/>
whose unrequited services the U. S.<br/>
Government has deprived them. These<br/>
men form a powerful political party in<br/>
array against the Republican party.<br/>
The latter have set their faces like a<br/>
flint to have the Southern States shut<br/>
out from representation in Congress un-<br/>
til they give better evidence than they<br/>
now do of being truly loyal, and are<br/>
determined that the Freedmen shall<br/>
have strict justice dispensed to them<br/>
according to their inherent right to it<br/>
and the pledges the Government of the<br/>
U. S. have made them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are greatly pained to learn that<br/>
on questions of this character Congress<br/>
and the President had come to a dead-<br/>
lock. Still we hope and trust the<br/>
President in vetoing the "Freedman's<br/>
Bureau Bill" has acted in all faithful-<br/>
ness to the Constitution, and that he<br/>
sincerely intends to abide by it accor-<br/>
ding to the best of his judgement, aid-<br/>
ed by its best expositors, which,<br/>
if done, will in good time, we doubt<br/>
not, result in a solid and lasting peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a great pity the President<br/>
lost his characteristic patience and com-<br/>
mand of dignified and temperate lan-<br/>
guage in much of his speech on the<br/>
22nd of Feb. To charge such men as<br/>
THE HON. CHARLES SUMNER of being<br/>
"equally opposed to the fundamental<br/>
principles of the United States' gov-<br/>
ernment, and as much laboring to<br/>
pervert or destroy them as were those<br/>
who fought against the government"<br/>
in the great Rebellion, was to say the<br/>
least of it an outrageous thrust, and<br/>
will in our opinion do the author of it<br/>
far more damage than the men or the<br/>
party at which it was hurled. Such out<br/>
bursts of denunciation "are evil and<br/>
only evil" even among political stump<br/>
speakers in the middle walks of life,<br/>
but the evil is exceedingly intensified<br/>
and made vastly more wide spreading<br/>
when coming from the lips of one so<br/>
highly exalted as the President of the<br/>
U. S. Am. The best hearts of the na-<br/>
tion have been pierced by those dag-<br/>
gers, and are bleeding to this day.<br/>
Still we hope they are wounds that<br/>
may be healed and that the author of<br/>
them, in noble penitence, will not be<br/>
slow to do what he can to heal them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to notice that Messrs.<br/>
Stearns and Sumner bore the thrust<br/>
with remarkable forbearance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following extracts from the N.<br/>
Y. Independent will give our readers<br/>
some idea how the Radical Republi-<br/>
cans feel in regard to the present cri-<br/>
sis of political affairs in the U. S. We<br/>
confess that we sympathize deeply<br/>
with those radicals, believing that<br/>
they do indeed lay the axe at the<br/>
root of the accursed tree, slavery,<br/>
though we could wish they had more<br/>
of the patience and gentleness of Christ<br/>
in their noble efforts to extirpate eve-<br/>
ry remaining root of African oppres-<br/>
sion. We firmly believe they are<br/>
working in the line of Jehovah's pur-<br/>
poses to give the oppressed race all<br/>
the fullness of liberty the white man<br/>
has, and that God will uphold them<br/>
and their cause with the right hand of<br/>
his righteousness.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Present Crisis.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The blush which the President<br/>
brought to the cheek of the Nation on<br/>
Washington's Birthday has had time<br/>
to fade into cooler blood. Men have<br/>
permitted their sudden indignation to<br/>
wane into settled regret. It is hardly<br/>
possible to realize the sacredness of<br/>
national honor until it is confronted<br/>
with the calamity of a national dis-<br/>
grace. Our enemies familiarized<br/>
this nation with the pang of grief. Our<br/>
Chief Magistrate has twice pierced<br/>
it with the sting of shame. God<br/>
shield the Republic!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not proven is the charge that the<br/>
President was in liquor. On the con-<br/>
trary, his friends esteemed him in his<br/>
right mind. But perhaps the superi-<br/>
ority of the office enables a president to<br/>
be as vulgar when sober as a vice-presi-<br/>
dent when drunk. With unheated blood,<br/>
then, the Executive of the United<br/>
States publicly brands the National<br/>
Legislators as Traitors. Borrowing<br/>
language from the French Revolution,<br/>
he calls the Joint Committee of the Fif-<br/>
teen "An Irresponsible Directory."<br/>
Pointing to the Capital where Congress<br/>
sits, he exclaims, "Almost another<br/>
REBELLION is inaugurated!" The<br/>
acts of one of the three great co-ordin-<br/>
ate departments of the Government<br/>
he describes as the "Progress of Fac-<br/>
tion, Rebellion, and TREASON."<br/>
With ominous emphasis he warns a-<br/>
gainst "Cliques, Cabals, Conspira-<br/>
cies, and Machinations." Descend-<br/>
ing to the pit of billingsgate, he<br/>
named two American statesmen, one<br/>
a leader of the Senate and the other<br/>
of the House, whom he calls as "much<br/>
the enemies of the Government as<br/>
were Jefferson Davis, Slidell, and<br/>
Toombs." The Clerk of the United<br/>
States Senate, the official medium of<br/>
communication between that body and<br/>
the Executive Mansion, he styles<br/>
a "dead duck." These gentlemen, and<br/>
others acting with them in Congress,<br/>
he stigmatizes as "opposed to the funda-<br/>
mental principles of this government,<br/>
and laboring to DESTROY it." Not<br/>
content with this extraordinary lan-<br/>
guage, he adds the astounding decla-<br/>
ration, "I make use of a very strong<br/>
expression when I say that I have no<br/>
doubt the intention was to incite AS-<br/>
SASSINATION." Then, as if in<br/>
view of the expected accomplishment<br/>
of his own murder, he prescribes the<br/>
manner of sacrifice, directing that an<br/>
altar be reared, his body laid there upon,<br/>
and his blood poured out!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
And all this foulness to come out of<br/>
the mouth, not of Andrew Johnson,<br/>
but of the President of the United<br/>
States! All this miracle of scandal to<br/>
go flying round the world to sadden<br/>
all nations with the shame of the great-<br/>
est!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few hours after this speech by the<br/>
President, his Secretary of State spoke<br/>
its counterpart at Cooper Institute,<br/>
New York. "When Mr. Seward rose<br/>
last night," said the next day's Eve-<br/>
ning Post, "he did not know how<br/>
greatly the President had just offen-<br/>
ded." But Mr. Seward did know<br/>
how greatly the President had just<br/>
offended." A morning journal, an or-<br/>
gan of the Government, says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Three or four dispatches were sent<br/>
to Mr. Seward stating that the speech<br/>
of Mr. Johnson was a frightful one,<br/>
a speech that he could not endorse,<br/>
and begging him not to speak at Coop-<br/>
er Institute." 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of these warnings was sent by a<br/>
U. S. senator, and and the other by a<br/>
Cabinet minister! But Mr. Seward was<br/>
not afraid of a thing frightful. He<br/>
made his speech that night; he peru-<br/>
sed the President's next morning; he<br/>
gave thanks for that immortal objur-<br/>
gation; and he forwarded the following<br/>
congratulation by telegraph to Wash-<br/>
ington.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
NEW YORK, Feb. 23, 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is all right and safe. The Un-<br/>
ion is restored and the country safe.<br/>
The President's speech is TRIUM-<br/>
PHANT, and the country will be hap-<br/>
py.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Signed) W. H. Seward.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus Mr. Seward shares the guilt<br/>
of his master, re-enacts and intensifies<br/>
the Executive insult to Congress, and<br/>
announces to an astounded nation that<br/>
the President's Cabinet Minister for<br/>
Foreign Affairs is happy to regard the<br/>
Senate's Chairman of Foreign Rela-<br/>
tions as a Traitor, Conspirator, and<br/>
Assassin!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the President has planted a<br/>
thorn in the pillow of his ablest advo-<br/>
cate. The Evening Post—whose re-<br/>
vered editor lent to the scroll of the<br/>
Cooper Institute meeting its most eui-<br/>
nent name—administered to the Pres-<br/>
ident the faithful rebuke of a friend in<br/>
the following righteous words:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"For the shocking and unseemly im-<br/>
putation Mr. Johnson chose to bring<br/>
against Messrs. Stevens, Sumner, and<br/>
others opposed to his policy, that 'their<br/>
intention was to incite assassination,' <br/>
we trust that he will make haste to<br/>
APOLOGIZE, not merely to them,<br/>
but to the country, which he has most<br/>
grievously INSULTED." 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, of what stuff and grain was the<br/>
President's meeting? It was the<br/>
meeting of Copperheads. Among<br/>
the invited guests was not a single Re-<br/>
publican. Previous to the President's<br/>
harangue, the chief speaker was the<br/>
Hon. S. S. Cox! The resolutions con-<br/>
tained the following reminiscence of<br/>
Rufus Choate and the glittering gene-<br/>
ralities:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
 "Resolved, That the grand old dec-<br/>
laration that "all men are created equal"<br/>
was never intended by its authors, nor<br/>
understood by the people for whom<br/>
it was made, as placing the African<br/>
race in this country on a civil, social,<br/>
or a political level with the Cauca-<br/>
sian. • • • While we are willing to<br/>
accord to those exotic and unassimi-<br/>
lable fellow-creatures all the privile-<br/>
ges necessary to their personal well-<br/>
being we will never consent to imperil<br/>
the sacred inheritance derived from<br/>
our Revolutionary fathers by entrust-<br/>
it partly to the guardianship of those<br/>
who know not its value and who care<br/>
not for its preservation." 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So the Declaration of Independence<br/>
was not intended for "All Men." On<br/>
the contrary, some who are rashly<br/>
thought to be included in it are Exotic<br/>
and Unassimilable Creatures: a theory<br/>
which we do not understand except as<br/>
illustrated by the President's Exotic<br/>
and Unassimilable Speech. At this<br/>
meeting Clay Smith said: "I would<br/>
separate the black man from the white,<br/>
and put the black in one country, and<br/>
the white in another." The Hon. A.<br/>
J. Rogers, from New Jersey, added:<br/>
 "When one of the objects of the war was<br/>
to shake off the shackles of the slaves,<br/>
and rob the people of the South of<br/>
millions of dollars of property, I pro-<br/>
tested against it." [Applause]. The<br/>
Hon R. T. Merrick exclaimed, "Rally<br/>
all you that love your country, and aid<br/>
your chief magistrate in crushing be-<br/>
neath his heel that disguised enemy<br/>
of the Union, Thaddeus Stevens, and<br/>
his nest of poisonous serpents that<br/>
crawl and hiss around the pillars of<br/>
the republic." The Hon. Myer Strouse<br/>
shouted, "Clear out the miserable<br/>
stable!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such was the talk, such the assem-<br/>
bly, such the accessories, and such the<br/>
President who stood as centre-piece !<br/>
Paint not the historic scene, lest a fu-<br/>
ture generation mistake it for the pic-<br/>
ture of Gov. Seymour addressing his<br/>
"friends."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Change.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is abundant reason to believe<br/>
that Siam to-day is quite different<br/>
from Siam thirty, twenty, fifteen, or<br/>
even ten years ago. The Siamese<br/>
themselves may not readily perceive<br/>
it, as most of their customs are still<br/>
held to with wonderful tenacity. In-<br/>
deed they are a people of customs.<br/>
Perhaps no other nation holds so<br/>
tenaciously to custom as this one.<br/>
That it is the Tumncum Thai is<br/>
sufficient reason for doing anything<br/>
how absurd soever it may be, or how<br/>
easily soever it might be abandoned.<br/>
They are like the story told of the<br/>
country man, who went to mill re-<br/>
peatedly with a small quantity of<br/>
grain in one end of the bag, and a<br/>
stone in the other, and then threw<br/>
it over the back of a horse. The miller<br/>
told him it would be much better to<br/>
throw away the stone, and divide the<br/>
grain into two parts, but his only re-<br/>
ply was that it was the way his father<br/>
did. All great changes however have<br/>
not been sudden but gradual, and<br/>
notwithstanding their tenacity for<br/>
custom, there is an almost impercepti-<br/>
ble change going on here. In this<br/>
respect the Siamese are perhaps an<br/>
improvement upon their Celestial<br/>
brethren. Whilst the Chinese are in<br/>
many respects superior to the Siam-<br/>
ese, and have much more stamina of<br/>
character, still in their own estimation<br/>
they know all that is worth knowing<br/>
already, and are slow to receive any<br/>
instruction from their "red haired"<br/>
brethren, the Europeans. The Siam-<br/>
ese on the contrary are more willing<br/>
to adopt any thing European which<br/>
pleases them but are at the same time<br/>
slow to acknowledge their indebted-<br/>
ness. But how loth soever they may<br/>
be to acknowledge it, there is no<br/>
doubt that they are much indebted<br/>
to their intercourse with the subjects<br/>
of western powers for the improve-<br/>
ments we find amongst them to-day.<br/>
Previous to the present reign that in-<br/>
tercourse was limited. Missionaries,<br/>
it is true, had been here for years, and<br/>
here also as in most other places,<br/>
were the pioneers who prepared the<br/>
way for a more general intercourse.<br/>
A few others also had ventured here<br/>
for the purpose of trade, but as yet<br/>
comparatively unprotected by any<br/>
treaty. The exclusive policy, however,<br/>
of the former kings was abandoned,<br/>
when a Prince was brought to the<br/>
throne who was much more highly<br/>
instructed than any of his predecessors,<br/>
and consequently was imbued with<br/>
more liberal views. The country was<br/>
consequently thrown open to commerce<br/>
by treaties with the principal western<br/>
powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But whilst the government and the<br/>
principal government officers are be-<br/>
lieved to be friendly to foreign inter-<br/>
course, there is still, undoubtedly, a<br/>
strong party opposed to it, and would<br/>
rejoice to see every foreigner out of<br/>
the country to-day. It may be asked,<br/>
therefore, in what way foreign inter-<br/>
course has specially benefitted the<br/>
Siamese? The laboring classes have<br/>
been much benefitted by it. It has<br/>
opened up to them a new and varied<br/>
source of employment, which hitherto<br/>
did not exist, and they are thus ena-<br/>
bled to secure a much better liveli-<br/>
hood than before. The services of<br/>
quite a number are required by the<br/>
European community, for which they<br/>
receive much better wages than the<br/>
same class of persons could command<br/>
any where else. The way thus open-<br/>
ing to them, of new places of labor<br/>
has a tendency to create in them a<br/>
stimulus for labor. They need very<br/>
much such stimulus. They are na-<br/>
turally lazy and dilatory. Their real<br/>
wants are comparatively few, and<br/>
if they have rice for the day, a little<br/>
kap, and a salung for gambling, they<br/>
are perfectly happy so far as this<br/>
world is concerned. Most of them,<br/>
too, being slaves, have no desire<br/>
to labor lest the fruits of their labors,<br/>
fall into the hands of their masters.<br/>
Many of them, however, avail them-<br/>
selves of any new opening in order to<br/>
get a little change to meet passing<br/>
wants, and many have actually bought<br/>
their freedom. Such persons are,<br/>
therefore better fed and clothed than<br/>
formerly. A few years ago a jacket<br/>
was a very rare thing among any class<br/>
of the natives, but now any cooly can<br/>
support a good one if he desires it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The better classes also enjoy the<br/>
advantage of being able to do a little<br/>
pigeon on their own account. In<br/>
this they sometimes get the worst of<br/>
it, but they again in turn are often-<br/>
times the successful ones. So upon<br/>
the whole they are like Paddy and<br/>
the log when rolling down the hill to-<br/>
gether, each party is on "top half the<br/>
time." They have also learned much<br/>
of European customs. Some have<br/>
also obtained some knowledge of<br/>
European architecture, and are build-<br/>
ing houses in a kind of Siamo Euro-<br/>
pean style, and furnishing them with<br/>
European furniture. They have also<br/>
been benefitted by a knowledge of the<br/>
power of steam, and its uses as a pro-<br/>
peller, and also of different kinds of<br/>
machinery. As a result of this know-<br/>
ledge they have about thirty steamers,<br/>
one of which is the much extolled "Im-<br/>
pregnable." Many of these steamers, it<br/>
is true are mere pleasure boats, or<br/>
play things, but they show that the<br/>
Siamese have not been idle in this<br/>
matter. There is reason however to<br/>
fear that they will outstrip their in-<br/>
structors in their own estimation. Not<br/>
long since a European wished to<br/>
charter a steamer from a Siamese no-<br/>
bleman, for the purpose of towing<br/>
and lightering, but the nobleman re-<br/>
fused to charter. It was thrown out<br/>
as an inducement, that she needed new<br/>
boilers and he would thus get her re-<br/>
paired. He replied that he was ex-<br/>
pecting boilers from her, but if they<br/>
did not come the Siamese could make<br/>
them. When pupils thus excel their<br/>
teachers, there is no further need of<br/>
the latter. But in some of these<br/>
things we cannot blame them if they<br/>
proceed with caution, they have<br/>
been taught some severe lessons. They<br/>
sometimes dread as a "burnt child<br/>
dreads the fire."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their mercantile marine is also an<br/>
evidence that they have been advan-<br/>
cing in the art of ship building. But<br/>
a few years ago the river at a certain<br/>
season of the year was lumbered up<br/>
with unsightly Junks, whose huge<br/>
cables were stretched in every direc-<br/>
tion and obstructing every thing pass-<br/>
ing by. Now a Junk of the largest<br/>
size is rarely seen, and in their stead<br/>
we find riding at anchor in the river<br/>
a number of fine vessels, of excellent<br/>
models, bearing the Siamese colours.<br/>
Some say that in this respect they<br/>
have gone too far, and have more ves-<br/>
sels to-day than are useful or profit-<br/>
able to them, but this of course time<br/>
only will prove.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to the real pecuniary advantages<br/>
accruing to the government from the<br/>
treaties we of course can only approx-<br/>
imate, as we have not the necessary<br/>
statistics. But take the single matter<br/>
of rice, since the removal the prohibi-<br/>
tion. Suppose that each of the mills<br/>
in the last four months has cleaned<br/>
90,000 piculs. This amount at four<br/>
ticals export duty per coyan, will<br/>
bring quite a little sum into the ro-<br/>
yal treasury. Paddy too has com-<br/>
manded the highest prices and it has<br/>
been impossible to get it down. For<br/>
this the merchants are perhaps them-<br/>
selves to blame. They manifested<br/>
too great anxiety to have the prohibi-<br/>
tion removed, and the consequence<br/>
was they had a lot of ships on their<br/>
hands, before there was really any<br/>
thing to put in them, and paddy could<br/>
not avoid remaining high. The sale<br/>
of so much paddy, too, and at such<br/>
prices must have sent afloat among<br/>
the rice growing regions, a great<br/>
amount of money, much of which will<br/>
return into the hands of the princes<br/>
and nobles. This also creates an in-<br/>
ducement to cultivate the fields and<br/>
waste lands throughout the kingdom<br/>
which will of course result beneficial-<br/>
ly to all around.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Consuls.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR :—The article you published in<br/>
your issue of the 26th. ult. relating to<br/>
Consuls, has been most timely and to<br/>
the purpose so far as it goes. There<br/>
is another aspect of the subject which<br/>
in the present state of things ought to<br/>
be brought out. The Siamese Gov-<br/>
ernment has I think, been treated<br/>
with great disrespect little short of, if<br/>
not with, open insult by the French<br/>
Consul. As this Consul is expected<br/>
to return to his post ere long, the<br/>
question now is, what is the duty of<br/>
the Siamese Government in the pre-<br/>
mises? The Siamese officials seem to<br/>
hesitate what to do, fearing the result.<br/>
This is wrong. The following ex-<br/>
tract from Whenton's International<br/>
Law answers the above question very<br/>
clearly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Consuls are not public ministers.<br/>
Whatever protection they may be en-<br/>
titled to in the discharge of their offi-<br/>
cial duties, and whatever special pri-<br/>
vileges may be conferred upon them<br/>
by the local laws and usages, or by<br/>
international compact, they are not<br/>
entitled by the general laws of nations,<br/>
to the peculiar immunities of ambas-<br/>
sadors. No state is bound to permit<br/>
the residence of foreign consuls unless<br/>
it has stipulated by convention to re-<br/>
ceive them. They are to be approv-<br/>
ed and admitted by the local sovereign,<br/>
and if guilty of illegal or improper<br/>
conduct are liable to have the exequa-<br/>
tur, which is granted them, withdrawn,<br/>
and may be punished by the laws of<br/>
the State where they reside, or sent<br/>
back to their own country, at the dis-<br/>
cretion of the government which they<br/>
have offended."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let the Siamese government act<br/>
without the least fear or hesitation,<br/>
and if the officials are honest in their<br/>
convictions, carry out at once the re-<br/>
medy which the Law of Nations pro-<br/>
vides. All enlightened nations will<br/>
approve and commend an act based<br/>
on the above extract, and as France<br/>
acknowledges the authority of Inter-<br/>
national Law she cannot take excep-<br/>
tions to it. The object of law is to<br/>
protect the weak and correct wrong.<br/>
The fact that France is great and<br/>
strong, and Siam is small and weak,<br/>
does not justify the French Consul in<br/>
affronting or encroaching on the Siam-<br/>
ese, nor does it excuse the Siamese<br/>
because they are comparatively weak,<br/>
from resisting and applying legal re-<br/>
medies to correct "illegal or impro-<br/>
per conduct." {{< news/indent4 >}} Lux.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, May 9th. 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The following clip from the papers is<br/>
a good example of the above.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President has revoked the ex-<br/>
equator of Dr. Rogers as Chilian con-<br/>
sul at New-York
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty relations of Siam with<br/>
Europe and America is constantly<br/>
bringing the Siamese government into<br/>
new and perplexing difficulties. These<br/>
difficulties are likely to increase rath-<br/>
er than diminish, and it becomes the<br/>
duty of the Sovereign and Ministers<br/>
to provide themselves with every pos-<br/>
sible facility to enlighten and qualify<br/>
themselves, to meet every emergency<br/>
and adjust it speedily and properly.<br/>
The great want of the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment at the present moment is a<br/>
translation of the Law of Nations.<br/>
Fortunately there are persons in<br/>
Bangkok qualified for the task whose<br/>
services can be procured. The work<br/>
of Phillmore can probably be trans-<br/>
lated for one thousand dollars per vol-<br/>
ume, and that of Wheaton in one vol-<br/>
ume, for two thousand five hundred<br/>
or three thousand dollars. Either of<br/>
these works well translated would be<br/>
worth to the sovereign and ministers<br/>
of Siam a hundred times it cost, and<br/>
they cannot make a more judicious<br/>
expenditure than to hire one or both<br/>
of these works to be translated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siamese Consuls.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment has appointed Consuls to re-<br/>
side in London, Paris, Vienne, Lisbon,<br/>
Rangoon, Penang, Singapore, Hong-<br/>
kong and other places, but has no<br/>
Consular Law to define their duties,<br/>
regulate their proceedings, designate<br/>
their authority and power, nor any<br/>
thing whatever to guide, restrict, pun-<br/>
ish or do any thing with or<br/>
through them in a legal way. Their<br/>
consular affairs are all haphazard and<br/>
chaotic. This state of things ill com-<br/>
ports with the reputed statesmanship<br/>
of His Majesty and the Prime Minis-<br/>
ter. Conducting state affairs in this<br/>
manner is like a person attempting to<br/>
establish himself as a merchant<br/>
without capital, rules, or regulations.<br/>
The Siamese government may go on<br/>
for a time with apparent success with-<br/>
out the necessary laws; but days of<br/>
disaster will come, and if they have<br/>
no law to fall back upon, the dishonor<br/>
which must follow will be very great.<br/>
Possibly there may be some excuse<br/>
for the past, but the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment cannot be excusable for neglec-<br/>
ting to provide the necessary laws<br/>
without delay.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,-—Your correspondent who signs<br/>
himself "one of the victims" of a late<br/>
dinner party, appears annoyed at the<br/>
arrangements made for so many guests,<br/>
but he did not (because he could not)<br/>
point out any thing which was badly<br/>
arranged. From his very grammat-<br/>
ically written letter I imagine the<br/>
conceited fellow expected to be plac-<br/>
ed at the head of the table, or at least<br/>
among the Consuls. In my opinion his<br/>
proper place would have been behind<br/>
one of the chairs. As it was, the poor<br/>
"victim" of a good dinner, ought to<br/>
think himself highly honored that he<br/>
was allowed a chair anywhere at a ta-<br/>
ble where there were LADIES and<br/>
GENTLEMEN.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps "Victim" had prepared a<br/>
speech for the occasion, and had not<br/>
an opportunity of delivering it. I am<br/>
truly sorry if such was the case, as<br/>
from the style of his letter I am sure<br/>
it would have been very interesting,<br/>
and would no doubt have put the com-<br/>
pany into that "good mood" HE ALONE<br/>
found wanting. Some say your cor-<br/>
respondent was not there at all, but<br/>
was one of those who framed a refu-<br/>
sal to the EXPECTED invitation, but who,<br/>
not having received any, was saved the<br/>
trouble of declining. I am going<br/>
to ask a friend to dine with me to-<br/>
morrow, should the side dishes not<br/>
be properly seasoned I shall expect to<br/>
see it mentioned in your next week's<br/>
issue. {{< news/indent4 >}} Your's respectfully,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAMPION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 10th May 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. EDITOR.-—In a small corner of<br/>
your model paper, oblige me with space<br/>
to put the following question, which<br/>
many beside myself would like an-<br/>
swered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has a British subject a right to a<br/>
written copy of any legal proceedings<br/>
taken by or against himself in H. B.<br/>
M’s. Consulate on payment of an au-<br/>
thorized fee for the same?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hearing that several persons have<br/>
been refused such, and reading another<br/>
case of the kind in your last issue,<br/>
and laboring under the impression<br/>
that we are entitled to such if requir-<br/>
ed, and there being no constituted law-<br/>
yer in this place to set one right in<br/>
the matter, I resort to this method to<br/>
gain the information.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While in a scribbling humor I will<br/>
take the opportunity of contradicting<br/>
an erroneous statement made in your<br/>
last concerning the British Government<br/>
organs, the Habeas Corpus Act, and<br/>
Prest. Lincoln.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I beg to state that the said “Organs”<br/>
played no such tune, and with the ex-<br/>
ception of one or two of our pen-<br/>
ny trumpeters, the music though on<br/>
different keys, was played on your<br/>
own Instruments, in your own Oches-<br/>
tras, and with but slight variations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The “Times” and that best of all<br/>
weekly’s, the “Examiner,” said “that<br/>
such a mandate was not exactly the<br/>
thing they should have expected from<br/>
a Representative Republican Gov-<br/>
ernment.” like that of America, but<br/>
that it showed that Prest. Lincoln<br/>
thought matters more serious than did<br/>
Mr. Seward, who, if you remember,<br/>
Mr. Editor, was to have the rebellion<br/>
of the South put down in 90 days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The suspension of the Habeas Cor-<br/>
pus Act in Ireland, is for a very differ-<br/>
ent purpose than that intended by<br/>
Prest. Lincoln, and a very short time<br/>
will show us the kind of animal it<br/>
will cause to be placed in the hands<br/>
of our genuine loyal Irish police. It<br/>
will empower them to take charge and<br/>
keep in safe custody those many<br/>
Irish black-guards, and cosmopolitan<br/>
rowdys, now prowling about Ireland<br/>
in the uniform of American soldiers,<br/>
and claiming to be American subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Woe betide poor Patrick Casey—-<br/>
late of Tipperary (and still later)<br/>
Capt. Casey of the U. S. Army—-na-<br/>
turalized American, when proved Re-<br/>
negade and conspirator, his doom will<br/>
be sure and speedy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The suspension of the Habeas Cor-<br/>
pus Act in Ireland, to use an Ameri-<br/>
canism, will be “a caution to snakes”<br/>
Excuse me Mr. Ed. I feel myself warm-<br/>
ing upon the subject, but I cannot<br/>
help (whenever occasion offers) giv-<br/>
ing expression to the extreme con-<br/>
tempt I feel towards those white-wash-<br/>
ed fellows, who are now endeavoring<br/>
to delude, rob, and bring into trouble<br/>
the poor and ignorant among our loy-<br/>
al Irish brethren.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I mean nothing offensive to any<br/>
true American. I admire them and<br/>
many of their institutions, and with<br/>
Macauly can say “that I look with<br/>
pride on that young and vigorous<br/>
people, within whose veins flow the<br/>
same blood as ours, whose minds are<br/>
nurtured by the same literature as ours,<br/>
and on whom is entailed the rich in-<br/>
heritance of our religion, our freedom<br/>
and our glory." {{< news/indent4 >}} I am,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Dear Mr. Editor,
Your's truly
A. Briton.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Answer to "A. Briton."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We return thanks to our respected<br/>
friend "A. Briton" for his prompt reply<br/>
to our statement touching the suspen-<br/>
sion of the Habeas Corpus Act by<br/>
Prest. Lincoln and the British Govern-<br/>
ment. When we first read it in Ms.<br/>
we thought it quite possible our<br/>
impressions concerning that matter<br/>
had been incorrect by having, some<br/>
how or other, been jumbled together<br/>
with the Alabama & Shenandoah de-<br/>
monstrations against the U. S. But<br/>
on further thought and re-search we<br/>
think that our impressions were in all<br/>
probability quite correct. We find<br/>
in the New York Evening Post of<br/>
March 6th 1866, an extract corrobora-<br/>
tive of our views taken from one of the<br/>
British "organs," and one of great pow-<br/>
er, whose notes were heard during all<br/>
the period of the late Great Rebel-<br/>
lion with great pleasure throughout<br/>
all the British dominions "on which<br/>
the sun never sets" and even in Bang-<br/>
kok. We have not time now to rum-<br/>
mage old files of English "organs,"<br/>
and think it unnecessary since the<br/>
London Times sounded so loudly,<br/>
clearly and continuously, and since its<br/>
notes were in such harmony with<br/>
those American "organs" who de-<br/>
nounced Prest. Lincoln's procedure of<br/>
suspending the Habeas Corpus Act.<br/>
The London Times in speaking of the<br/>
"Dis-United States" of America and<br/>
prophecying of the certain downfall<br/>
of the "Great American Republic"<br/>
used the following unmistakable and<br/>
strong language against Lincoln's act.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"At home no man's life, or liberty, or<br/>
"property is secure; for how can life<br/>
"or liberty be secure in a country<br/>
"where the habeas corpus act is sus-<br/>
"pended indefinitely, where citizens<br/>
"have no redress against unlawful im-<br/>
"prisonment, and no available means<br/>
"of obtaining a public trial; and how<br/>
"can property be secure when money<br/>
"is no longer a thing of intrinsic value,<br/>
"and when confiscation and taxation<br/>
"are becoming words of similar mean-<br/>
"ing? This is the happy Union which<br/>
"the Americans are now making for<br/>
"themselves, and to which they expect<br/>
"that, when it is completed, all man-<br/>
"kind will flock. They have but to<br/>
"add to it, as they are now doing, the<br/>
"abnegation of all the comforts of<br/>
"civilized life, they will soon have to<br/>
"negotiate a Fugitive Slave law with<br/>
"their neighbors to keep their own<br/>
"subjects within their pale."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We should be glad to have it pro-<br/>
ven that the suspension of the "Ha-<br/>
beas Corpus Act" in Ireland "is for a<br/>
very different purpose than that in-<br/>
tended by Prest. Lincoln," that there<br/>
has been no rebellion brewing among<br/>
British subjects in Ireland, that all<br/>
the terrible bluster made there has<br/>
been made only by "those many Irish<br/>
blackguards and Cosmopolitan rowdies<br/>
claiming to be American subjects."<br/>
But our impression is that England<br/>
herself has had great fears that Ire-<br/>
land would be soon all ablaze in re-<br/>
bellion if she did not speedily adopt<br/>
the extreme measure she has. We<br/>
admit that there is some difference<br/>
between the two cases-—the one hoping<br/>
by a suspension to arrest a rebellion<br/>
in awful progress-—the other to destroy<br/>
a rebellion in embryo. Being thus<br/>
contrasted, we beg to ask which go-<br/>
vernment would seem to be the least<br/>
open to criticism? We find fault with<br/>
neither. With all our hearts we praise<br/>
England for her prompt measure to<br/>
destroy the Irish rebellion in embryo.<br/>
For all the world knows without the<br/>
shadow of a doubt what the progeny<br/>
would be should it come to the birth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope some English jurist will<br/>
answer "A. Briton's" important ques-<br/>
tion. Being Americans we feel our-<br/>
selves just now incompetent. We can<br/>
only say that if it had been put to us<br/>
in regard to the American consulate, we<br/>
should answered it in the affirmative.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor.—-I have just received<br/>
a Photographic likeness of His Majes-<br/>
ty the king of Siam said to have been<br/>
executed by a nephew of the king. As<br/>
a work of art the picture will compare<br/>
favorably with those taken by other<br/>
artists, and is the best likeness of His<br/>
Majesty I have yet seen. This is said,<br/>
not in disparagement of the very excel-<br/>
lent pictures recently taken here by Eu-<br/>
ropoon artists, but in commendation<br/>
of the skill of the young Siamese Pho-<br/>
tographer. And by the way, the Siam-<br/>
ese I think are entitled to more credit<br/>
in artistic skill than they recieve. I have<br/>
recently seen some paintings of a Siam-<br/>
ese, representing the fruits of his<br/>
country, which in form, colours and<br/>
finish discover much taste and genius.<br/>
And when these amateur artists re-<br/>
ceive the encouragement and culture<br/>
they deserve, Siam is to furnish to the<br/>
world something more than masters of<br/>
marine and monastic architecture, and<br/>
in addition to the fleet of merchant ships<br/>
and Steamers which now occupy the<br/>
river and the line of Consular buildings,<br/>
dwelling houses, steam mills and<br/>
merchant establishments, which adorn<br/>
its banks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We may see in the no distant future<br/>
of Siam halls of learning, temples ded-<br/>
icated to the culture of science and the<br/>
fine arts and the general prevalence of<br/>
literature and refinement found in the<br/>
most enlightened countries of the<br/>
western world. The people are capable<br/>
of it, the government is looking for it,<br/>
and many intelligent minds in the<br/>
land are inquiring after the history and<br/>
habits of other countries, and longing<br/>
for a nearer affiliation with the more<br/>
civilized nations of the earth. Even<br/>
now, Siam is not a whit behind many<br/>
so called enlightened nations in some<br/>
of the noblest traits of a nation's great-<br/>
ness and surest marks of national pro-<br/>
gress. I allude to the toleration of free<br/>
speech, a free press, and the free enjoy-<br/>
ment of religious worship whether Bud-<br/>
hist, or Mohomedan, Papist or Pro-<br/>
testant, every man is allowed to wor-<br/>
ship according to his own conscience,<br/>
and is protected in his religious serv-<br/>
ices. How long since the subjects of<br/>
France or England were allowed such<br/>
complete toleration!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Here every religion is allowed to<br/>
have her own temples, print her own sa-<br/>
cred books, publish her own creed, and<br/>
give her doctrines a fair chance to<br/>
stand or fall according to the decisions<br/>
of truth, after an impartial hearing by<br/>
the public. I know not where to look<br/>
for clearer proof of national enlighten-<br/>
ment or a surer pledge of a nation's<br/>
progress, than this one principle of<br/>
religious toleration. Truth asks only<br/>
for an open field and fair play. Ignorance<br/>
and error ask also for the prop of the<br/>
civil arm. Let Siam perpetuate her prin-<br/>
ciples of toleration, encourage the arts,<br/>
and education, and with the blessing<br/>
of Heaven, she may soon stand by<br/>
the side of the most enlightened nations<br/>
of the world. {{< news/indent4 >}} D.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steamer "Chow Phya" left Singa-<br/>
pore on Thursday evening May 3rd,<br/>
had fine weather throughout the en-<br/>
tire passage. Arrived at the bar on<br/>
the afternoon of Monday the 7th inst,<br/>
crossed the bar at night, and anchored<br/>
at Puknam till daylight, and arrived<br/>
at Bangkok at 7 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per "Chow Phya"—-<br/>
Mrs Swan and child, Mr. Larnaudie<br/>
and Mr. Xivie, and about twenty deck<br/>
passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per "Viscount Canning"<br/>
—-Captain and Mrs. Habercost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. S. M's. Gun-boat "Impregna-<br/>
ble" arrived in town this day 4 P. M.<br/>
She left Singapore on the 5th inst. at 3<br/>
P. M. and arrived at the Bar, on the<br/>
10th inst. at 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her passage down to Singapore was<br/>
made in 5½ days. She saluted the<br/>
British flag at Fort Canning by 21 guns<br/>
to which the Fort responded by the<br/>
same number of guns. The Siamese<br/>
flag was floating in the breeze at the<br/>
Fort in company with the British.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that much credit was<br/>
given to the "Impregnable" by dis-<br/>
tinguished men in Singapore, as re-<br/>
flecting much honor on the His Sia-<br/>
mese Majesty's rising navy, and the<br/>
skill and good taste of His Majesty<br/>
the late second king of Siam, under<br/>
whose skillfull eye the vessel was built.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cleanliness and good behavior<br/>
of her men were particularly noticed.<br/>
The good time-kept in firing the sa-<br/>
lute was also spoken of as being quite<br/>
creditable to Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Capt. Walrond made a visit to H.<br/>
B. M's. Gun-boat "Coquette" in the<br/>
Harbour of Singapore, and was received<br/>
with all due honors as an officer in<br/>
H. S. Majesty's navy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The speed of the "Impregnable"<br/>
is from 7 to 10 knots an hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At St. Andrew's Church, on the 31st<br/>
March, by the Rev. J. C. Waterhouse,<br/>
Captain Charles Haberkost, of Bang-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
kok, to Miss Elizabeth Bandy of Sin<br/>
gapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Royal Wedding.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[We had the pleasure of receiving<br/>
from His Majesty the King a pair of<br/>
wedding cards of which the following<br/>
is an explanation in His Majesty's own<br/>
words. It is another among the many<br/>
pleasing indications we have of progress<br/>
in Siam.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Highness Prince TEDGE is the<br/>
third son of His Royal Highness Prince<br/>
N. KROM MU'N MAHESUAR SIVAVILAS<br/>
the eldest son of His Present Siamese<br/>
Majesty the reigning King of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her Highness Princess KIEU KA-<br/>
LIA is the second daughter of His late<br/>
Royal Highness deceased Prince S.<br/>
KROM MU'N VISNUNARTHINISHADHORN<br/>
the full brother of the said father of<br/>
the forenamed young Prince, or the<br/>
second late son of His Present Siamese<br/>
Majesty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The happy nuptial of the said coup-<br/>
le took place at Palace of the father of<br/>
the Bridegroom on Thursday the 3rd<br/>
day of May, Anno Christi 1866, when<br/>
the bridegroom was aged 23 years and<br/>
the bride aged 17 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}RICE—Common cargo, Tic. 47 P coyan<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Fair " " 49 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Good " " 54 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Clean " " 59 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}White " " 71 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Mill cleansed " " 2½ picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}PADDY—Nasuan " " 51 P coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Namuang " " 44 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SUGAR—Superior " P 13½ pieul.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}White No. 1 " 11⅔ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 10⅔ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}" 3 " 10¼ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Brown " 1 " 7½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 7 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BLACK PEPPER " " 9½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}BUFFALO HIDES " " 12 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Horns Black " 12½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" White " 29 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Deer " 8 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Cow HIDES " " 16 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GUMBENJAMIN No. 1 " 240 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 140 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TIN " 1 " 39 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 37 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}HEMP " 1 " 22 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 20 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GAMBOGE " " 54 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SILK—Korat " 285 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Corbin China " 800 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Cambodia " 640 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}STICKLAC-No. 1 " 16 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 14½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}CARDAMUMS—Best. " 210 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" Bastard " 81 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}SAPANWOOD—5 @ 4 p. " 3½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 4 @ 5 " 3½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 5 @ 6 " 3 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}LUK KRABOW SEED " 2½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}IVORY-4 pieces " 350 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 5 " 340 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 6 " 330 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 7 " 320 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 18@20 " 245 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}TEEKWOOD " 10 P Yok.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}ROSEWOOD No. 1 " 200 P 100 pls.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 170 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}REDWOOD " 1 " 235 do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2 " 122 do<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}MATBAGS " " 8 P 100<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}GOLDLEAF—Tic. 16 P Ticals weight.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}EXCHANGE—On Singapore par 10 d. s.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Hongkong 3 P cent discount 80 d. s. Lon-<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
don 4s. 9½d. ¥ 86. m. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE SOVEREIGNS OF EUROPE AND<br/>
THEIR RELIGION.-—There are in Eu-<br/>
rope 43 reigning Sovereigns, not in-<br/>
cluding those who possess titles only.<br/>
Of those 43, 9 belong to the Roman<br/>
Catholic religion, but one of that num-<br/>
ber is excommunicated; 31 are Prot-<br/>
estants, 1 a Mohammedan, and the 43d<br/>
is the Pope. The excommunicated<br/>
Sovereign is King Victor Emmanuel.<br/>
There are besides, in Europe, 7 repub-<br/>
lics; 2 exclusively Catholic—San Mari-<br/>
no and Andorra—and 5 where the ma-<br/>
jority of the inhabitants are Protestants<br/>
—-Switzerland, Hamburg, Bremen,<br/>
Frankfort and Lubeck.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NEVER SULK.—-Better draw the cork<br/>
of your indignation, and let it foam<br/>
and fume, than to wire it down to turn<br/>
sour and acid within you. Sulks af-<br/>
fect the liver and are still worse for<br/>
the heart and the soul. Wrath driven<br/>
in is as dangerous to the moral health<br/>
as suppressed small pox to the animal<br/>
system. Dissipate it by reflecting on<br/>
the mildness humility and serenity of<br/>
better men than yourself, suffering un-<br/>
der great wrongs than you have ever<br/>
been called upon to bear.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great caricaturists of the latter<br/>
days of the Georges all came to gloomy<br/>
ends. They who knew so well to<br/>
make all the rest of the world laugh<br/>
were themselves the victims of distress<br/>
and trouble. Rowlandson died in pov-<br/>
erty, Hogarth died of a broken heart,<br/>
caused by attacks upon him by Wilkes<br/>
and Churchill; and Gillray, the most<br/>
genial of humorists, committed suicide<br/>
in a fit of melancholy
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A telegram has been received at<br/>
the India Office from Calcutta, an-<br/>
nouncing that the guns lost at Dew-<br/>
angiri have been restored to our offi-<br/>
cers by the Bhootan chief. The cause<br/>
of the threatened renewal of hostilities<br/>
against Bhootan being thus removed,<br/>
our troops will return. The time ta-<br/>
ken in transmitting the telegraph from<br/>
Calcutta to London was only twenty<br/>
one hours.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is surmised in Prussia that Parli-<br/>
ment has met for the last time during<br/>
the present reign. There is consid-<br/>
erable excitement. The Bourse is ag-<br/>
itated. The funds have fallen. The<br/>
Berlin populace exhibit signs of temper.<br/>
It is not expected however, that the<br/>
storm will burst. Still, the coup-d'-<br/>
etat may be followed by unlooked-for<br/>
results. Prussia's difficulty is Austri-<br/>
a's opportunity. The Emperor's ad-<br/>
visers are assuming a bolder tone, and<br/>
if it be true that they have dispatched<br/>
fresh troops to Holstein, the minion<br/>
of the Prussian Court may see cause<br/>
to repent at leisure what he did in<br/>
haste. That the two leading German<br/>
Powers will come to blows is not very<br/>
probable, since it would suit the<br/>
present position of neither. But, in<br/>
the event of any breakdown in Bis-<br/>
mark's foreign policy, the domestic<br/>
embarrassment which he has on his<br/>
hands will be greatly increased. He<br/>
has staked every thing on one throw.<br/>
Should it turn up against him, his<br/>
prospects will be unenviable indeed.<br/>
Perhaps there is no statesman in Eu-<br/>
rope whose future is more precarious, or<br/>
to whom, should he trip in his auda-<br/>
cious career, the words of our great<br/>
dramatic bard would be more applic-<br/>
able—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Never to hope again.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CONSUL AT BANGKOK.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(March 6th.) Mr. WYLD (Bodmin)<br/>
asked the Under Secretary of State<br/>
for Foreign Affairs whether Mr. Knox,<br/>
Her Majesty's Consul at Bangkok,<br/>
had returned to his post; why he<br/>
quitted it; and if any one was left in<br/>
charge at the consulate during the<br/>
absence of Mr. Knox.—Mr. LAYARD<br/>
said that Mr. Knox, Her Majesty's<br/>
Consul at Bangkok, had returned to<br/>
his post, which he had quitted in con-<br/>
sequence of very important affairs<br/>
connected with British interests. The<br/>
Government entirely approved his<br/>
proceedings. In his absence he had<br/>
left an officer of great ability and ex-<br/>
perience, perfectly competent to ma-<br/>
nage affairs, in charge of the consulate.<br/>
London & China Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
PICTURE OF THE SIAMESE AMBASSA-<br/>
DORS AT FONTAINEBLEAU.-—At the last<br/>
annual exhibition of paintings in Pa-<br/>
ris one of the most remarkable pic-<br/>
tures was that by Gerome—-just elect-<br/>
ed, by the way, a member of the<br/>
French Academy of Fine Arts—re-<br/>
presenting the reception of the Am-<br/>
bassadoors of the King of Siam by the<br/>
Emperor and Empress. As regards<br/>
the Embassy, the painter achieved a<br/>
great success, in spite of the awkward<br/>
attitudes and positions of the principle<br/>
figures, who are on all fours, in a pro-<br/>
cession which reaches nearly all across<br/>
the canvas. M. Gerome has caught<br/>
the expressions of the countenances so<br/>
happily, and has rendered the dresses<br/>
so brilliantly, that the group is highly<br/>
interesting: the face and figure of the<br/>
boy, son of one of the Ambasadoors,<br/>
are admirable. The Siamese were de-<br/>
lighted with the picture, and insisted<br/>
on having a copy made and sent to<br/>
Bangkok for the King. The artist<br/>
has just completed a reduced copy for<br/>
this purpose, and is said to have been<br/>
very successful in plagiarising himself.<br/>
It was a pity not to have done the<br/>
thing imperially, and made the repro-<br/>
duction of the full size, for no amount<br/>
of art can give the same bold effect in<br/>
a diminished space, and boldness more<br/>
than highly artistic finish would be of<br/>
importance in the present case. We<br/>
have no doubt that the representation<br/>
of the curious and glittering ceremony<br/>
will cause at least as much sensation<br/>
at Bangkok as it did in Paris, but we<br/>
trust that the painter will escape the<br/>
White Elephant. {{< news/indent2 >}} L. & C. Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
COCHIN-CHINA AND THE FRENCH LE-<br/>
GISLATURE.—-In the debate on the Ad-<br/>
dress which is still proceeding in the<br/>
Corps Legislatif, Cochin-China came<br/>
in for a certain amount of attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The following Amendment was pro-<br/>
posed by M. Taillefer and seven other<br/>
deputies :—-"Sire,—-You speak to us<br/>
of Algeria and the hopes which you<br/>
found upon her; allow us, in our turn,<br/>
to speak of a colony whose prospects<br/>
are revealing themselves daily, name-<br/>
ly, Cochin-China. We think, Sire,<br/>
that it would be useful to explore<br/>
Camboge as far as China, in order<br/>
to establish commercial relations<br/>
with the centre of the latter country.<br/>
We desire to see agriculture encour-<br/>
aged in Cochin-China. In order to<br/>
hasten assimilation and to introduce<br/>
the mother tongue into that country,<br/>
we desire to see the Government en-<br/>
courage education and the substitu-<br/>
tion of Roman characters for those of<br/>
China." {{< news/indent2 >}} Lon. & China Express
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
INDIA;—-Russia is steadily advanc-<br/>
ing towards the north west front<br/>
of India, and has annexed territory-<br/>
in Central Asia, comprising an area<br/>
of about four thousand square leagues<br/>
and a population of four hundred<br/>
thousand souls. Deoghar a place of<br/>
pilgrimage in the Bhagulpore district<br/>
has been visited by a most fatal form<br/>
of small pox, and Government has<br/>
wisely prohibited all intercourse with<br/>
the infected town. The educated<br/>
portion of the Hindoo Community have<br/>
made a petition soliciting interference<br/>
to put down polygamy in India, which<br/>
has had such pernicious effects on<br/>
domestic life by the fearful mischief and<br/>
abomination it creates. Professor<br/>
Bushell has been entertaining the in-<br/>
habitants of Calcutta with Scientific<br/>
exhibitions, such as, illustrations of<br/>
voltaic and frictional electricity, expose<br/>
of spirit-rapping. It is said that he<br/>
proved particularly successful in Elec-<br/>
tro-Biology, in which his experiments<br/>
were wonderful. He drew forth shouts<br/>
of applause from the audience by de-<br/>
priving a man who was fully in his<br/>
senses of free will, muscular action-<br/>
memory, sensation. In the interests<br/>
of science some explanation should be<br/>
made of these experiments.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE QUESTION NOT YET DECIDED!—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is very nearly a hundred years<br/>
since Dr. Johnson, in one of his letters<br/>
to Boswell, at Edinburgh, incidentally<br/>
remarks at the close, 'I long to hear<br/>
how the negro's cause will be decided.<br/>
What is the opinion of Lord Auchin-<br/>
leck, or Lord Hailes, or Lord Mon-<br/>
boddo.'"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This question will not be satisfac-<br/>
torily decided until the negro has<br/>
secured to him all those civil, social<br/>
and religious rights which white men<br/>
claim for themselves. The sooner<br/>
nations and individuals yield that point,<br/>
the sooner the negro question will be<br/>
decided. The negro is a man, and as<br/>
such his rights must be conceded, or<br/>
there will be agitation. It cannot be<br/>
helped. The South denied the negro<br/>
his rights, and so came the war. All<br/>
men are "born free and equal."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
SLAVERY Dies HARD.—-The news-<br/>
papers and "everybody" say that<br/>
slavery is dead. We hope so, but<br/>
depend upon it, the old spirit of slav-<br/>
ery will still show itself in a thousand<br/>
forms. Mrs. Childs has well expres-<br/>
sed this idea in a late "Independent:"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This pro-slavery devil, after he<br/>
has come out, with such terrible rend-<br/>
ing and tearing, will assume all man-<br/>
ner of Protean shapes for mischief.<br/>
He will squat like a toad, twist like<br/>
a snake, and coo like a dove.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fortunately, Charles Sumner carries<br/>
Ithuriel's spear, and will detect him in<br/>
all disguises. Beyond all statesmen<br/>
in this country, or any other, I honor<br/>
Charles Sumner."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-10_4_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Things should not be done by halves.<br/>
If it be right, do it boldly; if it be<br/>
wrong leave it undone. Every day is<br/>
a little life, and our whole life is but a<br/>
day repeated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WHICH IS WANTED?—Many persons<br/>
complain that they cannot find words<br/>
for their thoughts, when the real trou-<br/>
ble is that they cannot find thoughts<br/>
for their words.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Woman's love, like the rose blossom-<br/>
ing in the arid desarts, spreads its rays<br/>
over the barren plain of the human<br/>
heart, and while all around it is black<br/>
and desolate, it rises more strengthened<br/>
from the absence of every charm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GREATEST MAN.—The greatest<br/>
man is he who chooses the right with<br/>
invincible resolution: who resists the<br/>
sorest temptation within and without;<br/>
who bears the heaviest burden cheer-<br/>
fully; who is the calmest in storms,<br/>
and whose reliance on faith and virtue,<br/>
and on God is the most unfaltering.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dook Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
