---
linkTitle: 'August 16th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 16th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 16th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 55
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, August 16th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 32.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Civil Rights.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
APRIL 8, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY MRS. E. P. HUMPHREY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}GOD bless our patriot brothers all,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The loyal Nation's choice!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For not alone the Capitol<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Has shouted back their voice!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Our north woods hear the south wind call,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}East cries to West, "Rejoice!"<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Fit offerings at the Senate door<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}From grateful angels drop—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}God's flowers, that drink for rich and poor<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The happy sunlight up,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And turn the dew from mead or moor<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To jewels in their cup.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Day dawns along our skies at last,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The vigil shadows creep;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From the sullen gloom of pride and caste<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It wakes the ages' sleep,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And makes the graves of our buried past<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}So bright we may not weep.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}What though a priestly hand it be<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Would stay the ark of God,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And, midway o'er the lifted sea,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Dash down the parting rod?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The ransomed host is marching free!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}WHO struggles in the flood?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Truth is her own immortal meed<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Since martyr-days of old,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When the world was sown with hero-seed,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For a harvest manifold:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The word at need, and the nobler deed,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}We do not buy with gold.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}God bless them, then, the stalwart crew<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That man our Ship of State!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The storm-wind she will weather through,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Nor reach the harbor late.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The pilot's hand may prove untrue—<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}GOD'S eye is on her fate!<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gen. Terry's Testimony.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We print a portion of Gen. Terry's tes-<br/>
timony before the Reconstruction commit-<br/>
tee. As all who know him are aware, he<br/>
is a man remarkable for prudence fairness<br/>
and common sense, and the testimony of<br/>
no other man in a like position could be<br/>
more reliable or valuable!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—What generally is the feeling on the<br/>
part of the secession element against Un-<br/>
ionists, whether native Virginians or those<br/>
from other states?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—I think it is as hostile as it ever has<br/>
been. As to the feeling toward the peo-<br/>
ple of the North, I do not think it has es-<br/>
sentially changed from what it was before<br/>
and during the war. There is still the<br/>
same hatred and the same contempt for<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.—How much social intercourse is there<br/>
between them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A—-Very little so far as my knowledge<br/>
goes; very little indeed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q—-Are you prepared to state that the<br/>
state of feeling between secessionists and<br/>
Unionists is one of bitter hostility?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A—-I think it is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q—-Are Unionists secure in the enjoy-<br/>
ments of their rights in the midst of a se-<br/>
cession community there?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-I don't think they are.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—Can they safely rely on the State<br/>
Courts for justice to themselves and pro-<br/>
tection to their rights?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—No, sir; I think not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—How would it be, for instance, in a<br/>
suit between a Union man, whether resid-<br/>
ing there or from a loyal state, and a se-<br/>
cessionist; would you apprehend that a<br/>
jury called in the regular way in Virginia<br/>
would be prejudiced against a Union man?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—While I do not know of any such ca-<br/>
ses, such is my impression in regard to<br/>
the feeling of secessionists toward Union<br/>
men, that I think the rights of the latter<br/>
under these circumstances, would not be<br/>
secured; and I know from conversation<br/>
with Union men that such is the general<br/>
impression among them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—What do the secessionists appear to<br/>
desire? What great object have they in<br/>
view?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—In the first place, having failed to<br/>
maintain their separate nationality, they<br/>
desire to keep themselves as separate peo-<br/>
ple, and to prevent the nation, by any<br/>
means in their power, from becoming ho-<br/>
mogeneous. Secondly they wish to make<br/>
treason honorable and loyalty infamous,<br/>
and to preserve, as far as they are able,<br/>
political power.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—And the great object which they im-<br/>
mediately have in view is the possession<br/>
of political power?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—Yes, sir.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—How do they regard President John-<br/>
son's liberal policy in reconstructing the<br/>
State, and granting pardons and amnes-<br/>
ties?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—They seem to be very much pleased<br/>
with it. They would, of course, regard<br/>
with great favor any action tending to<br/>
restore them to their former station.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—Do you hear any expressions of dis-<br/>
loyalty among them toward President<br/>
Johnson?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—I do not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—Suppose they get into favor again,<br/>
with their full representation in Congress,<br/>
and with a President who, like Mr. Buch-<br/>
anan, should disavow the right of the Gov-<br/>
ernment of the United States to coerce<br/>
States, and should decline to use the mili-<br/>
tary force of the Government to prevent<br/>
secession, would they, or would they not,<br/>
in your opinion, again secede from the<br/>
Union and attempt to get up an indepen-<br/>
dent Government?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—If they should be convinced that<br/>
notwithstanding their former failure, they<br/>
then would have a certainty of success, I<br/>
think they would attempt to secede again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q-—State whether they are in the habit<br/>
of speaking contemptuously of the Govern-<br/>
ment of the United States, as a political<br/>
institution?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-They are.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—And in view of the contingency of a<br/>
foreign war with a powerful nation, and<br/>
the occurrence of such an invasion of our<br/>
country, do you regard the rebel States,<br/>
one or altogether, as an element of<br/>
strength in the Government of the United<br/>
States at the present time?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.-—No, sir. On the contrary, most de-<br/>
cidedly an element of weakness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Q.-—Do you suppose, from what you have<br/>
seen and heard, and from what you know,<br/>
that it would be safe to entrust the great<br/>
body of freedmen in Virginia or elsewhere<br/>
in the South, to the care of the local auth-<br/>
orities or the local legislation?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A.—-I do not.-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The decay of the English race.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Morgan, a Manchester physician, has<br/>
published a pamphlet on his formidable<br/>
subject, which deserves the most serious<br/>
attention. It was originally made public<br/>
in the shape of a paper [fead?] at one of the<br/>
late Social Science congresses, and strik-<br/>
ingly contrasts with the ordinary staple of<br/>
the manufactures produced at the some-<br/>
what windy gatherings. He maintains<br/>
that we are all going to decay from too much<br/>
congregating in great cities. He has had<br/>
long experience in the effects of town life<br/>
upon the working man and his family, and<br/>
has been led to study the abounding sani-<br/>
tary statistics of the day with unusual care.<br/>
And here is his description of the Manches-<br/>
ter operative, such as he now is in a vast<br/>
number of instances, and such as he is uni-<br/>
versally tending to become. The present<br/>
typical factory hand wants physical sta-<br/>
mina, and his muscular system is rarely<br/>
well strung. His pulse tells of a want of<br/>
power in the heart, and its variations are<br/>
rapid under the least excitement and exer-<br/>
tion. His feet are cold, his veins prominent,<br/>
and he is given to vertigo. His lips are<br/>
blanched, and his cheeks colourless. Neur-<br/>
algia is his frequent ailment; and the teeth,<br/>
the eyes, the hair, the skin, and the glands<br/>
all denote "the absence of that well-balan-<br/>
ced tension of the nervous system on which<br/>
the easy and harmonious working of the<br/>
frame so largely depends." In men who<br/>
were born in country places, and only mi-<br/>
grate to Manchester or other large towns<br/>
in their youth or advanced boyhood, these<br/>
symptoms of degeneration are less usual<br/>
than in those who were born and bred in<br/>
the midst of the destroying influences; but<br/>
even upon them these influences tell to an<br/>
extent which is nothing less than a national<br/>
calamity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The carefully arranged tables of figures<br/>
which Dr. Morgan has appended to his<br/>
easy supply illustrations of the results of<br/>
town life which are sufficiently surprising<br/>
to those who are unacquainted with its<br/>
physical conditions. Perhaps the most<br/>
significant is the startling contrast between<br/>
the birth rates in cities and in the country.<br/>
In the four largest cities in England—-Lon-<br/>
don, Liverpool, Manchester, and Birming-<br/>
ham—-the average number of marriages to<br/>
every thousand of living persons was about<br/>
twelve and a-half in the year 1861; and<br/>
the number of births was about thirty six;<br/>
so that the average number of children<br/>
born in each family is somewhat less than<br/>
three. But in London, where the propor-<br/>
tion of the wealthy and comfortable classes<br/>
is so great, the average number of children<br/>
was nearly four, while in Manchester,<br/>
where the poor are an enormous portion of<br/>
the whole population, the average number<br/>
born to each family was little more than<br/>
two. Now, examine the proportion of mar-<br/>
riages and births in the twenty-seven<br/>
agricultural counties. In the year 1861<br/>
the number of births indicated an average<br/>
of four and a-half children born to every<br/>
married pair during their lifetime. Here,<br/>
indeed, is a physiological proof of the per-<br/>
manent decay of the constitution of vital<br/>
moment. There are more than twice as<br/>
many children born to each country-dwel-<br/>
ling pair as are born to each married couple<br/>
in Manchester.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Take next the death rate in the four great<br/>
cities and in the agricultural counties. In<br/>
1861 forty-five out of every thousand per-<br/>
sons died under the age of fifteen in the<br/>
cities, taking them all together. In Lon-<br/>
don by itself the death rate was only thirty<br/>
four per thousand; while in Manchester it<br/>
was forty-seven, and in Liverpool fifty-six.<br/>
In the same year in the agricultural districts<br/>
the death-rate of persons under fifteen was<br/>
only twenty-two per thousand; showing<br/>
that in Liverpool the mortality of children<br/>
is two-and-a-half times as great as in vil-<br/>
lages and country towns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The physical causes of this frightful state<br/>
of things are, in Dr. Morgan's opinion,<br/>
chiefly three, each of them destructive by<br/>
itself, and in combination with the others<br/>
still more fatal. The first is the vitiated<br/>
air of the houses, the factories, and the<br/>
streets of cities, and pre-eminently of Man-<br/>
chester. The phenomena ascertained by<br/>
meteorological observations at Manchester<br/>
are surprising. In the middle of the city<br/>
the average winter temperature is eight<br/>
degrees higher than in the outskirts; and<br/>
the average summer temperature is five<br/>
degrees lower. The explanation is easy.<br/>
A murky mass of noxious, gaseous vapour<br/>
hangs over the city night and day, through<br/>
which the sun's warmest summer rays nev-<br/>
er thoroughly penetrate, while in the win-<br/>
ter the earth's heat never thoroughly ra-<br/>
diates upwards. That mysterious element<br/>
of life, ozone, is never detected in the cen-<br/>
tre of Manchester; in the suburbs it is ob-<br/>
tained in considerable quantities. But what<br/>
the air loses in ozone it gains in sulphur.<br/>
No alkaline rain falls in Manchester proper,<br/>
and the rain is so acid that one drop colours<br/>
the litmus paper that is used as the ordinary<br/>
test; while just in those parts of the city<br/>
where the air is found most largely charg-<br/>
ed with organic impurities there the death-<br/>
rate is highest. In the midst of this poi-<br/>
sonous atmosphere lives a population that<br/>
suffers to a frightful extent from that con-<br/>
tagious and hereditary disease which is<br/>
ruining the health of our soldiers and sail-<br/>
ors, which a few overflowing Lock Hospitals<br/>
vainly attempt to stem, and which the shal-<br/>
low Pharisaism of the times prevents us<br/>
from attacking with any prospect of wide<br/>
alleviation. In two years, says Dr. Morgan,<br/>
9,000 of the Manchester poor were known<br/>
to suffer from this pest, as detected in the<br/>
working of public institutions alone, and<br/>
exclusive of the innumerable cases treated<br/>
in private practice. To these two causes<br/>
add the results of excessive spirit drink-<br/>
ing, and we are no longer at a loss to ac-<br/>
count for the innumerable early deaths and<br/>
the childless marriages of the artisan class.<br/>
Drinking, too, in the country is more ex-<br/>
clusively the vice of the men than it is in<br/>
cities. There are drunken women enough,<br/>
indeed, in our villages and smaller towns;<br/>
but they bear no proportion to the gin-<br/>
drinking women and girls of London,<br/>
Liverpool, and every city in Great Brittan.<br/>
Drinking, too, tells more fatally on the<br/>
woman than on the man. Her more sus-<br/>
ceptible temperament is more easily excit-<br/>
ed, and the depression that follows and<br/>
calls for renewed excitement is proportion-<br/>
ately more complete. A very small acquain-<br/>
tance with police offices, or any places where<br/>
drunken women are to be found, is amply<br/>
sufficient to show that the gin that turns a<br/>
man into a beast turns a woman into some-<br/>
thing almost devilish. Such are the deadly<br/>
influences at work upon the millions who<br/>
are congregated in cities, and ever re-<br/>
cruited by as large an immigration from<br/>
the country districts that the purely agri-<br/>
cultural population of the kingdom actual-<br/>
ly remains stationary. The condition of<br/>
the farm labourer is bad enough. He, too,<br/>
often lives in a hovel, is perfectly free and<br/>
easy in his morals, and gets drunk with<br/>
beer. It is a satisfaction to remember that<br/>
the fresh air of heaven supplies him with<br/>
some compensation for what he loses by<br/>
not following those of his companions who<br/>
flock to the gigantic money-making centres<br/>
of manufacture and trade.—-LON. & CHINA<br/>
EXPRESS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
“Take no Thought for the
Morrow.”
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When John Koller, of the village of<br/>
Helsen, was obliged to sell all his pro-<br/>
perty, because, in that year of scarcity,<br/>
1847, he could pay neither rent nor taxes,<br/>
he went the day before with his wife to<br/>
church, as was his regular custom every<br/>
Sunday. He found abundant comfort in<br/>
the text, “Take no thought for the mor-<br/>
row,” and in the words, “Your heavenly<br/>
Father knoweth that ye have need of all<br/>
these things.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On his return from the church, he walk-<br/>
ed much consoled by the side of his<br/>
Margaret; and the words in Matt. viii. 1,<br/>
“When Jesus was come down from the<br/>
mount, great multitudes followed him,”<br/>
seemed also to apply; for he, too, fol-<br/>
lowed his Saviour with faith and hope,<br/>
whose blessed words he had heard upon<br/>
the mountain where the little church<br/>
stood. And when Margaret entered for<br/>
the last time on Sunday, the cottage,<br/>
which, on the morrow they were to turn<br/>
their backs upon, and was beginning to<br/>
weep, he comforted her with the words,<br/>
“Take no thought for the morrow, for<br/>
your heavenly Father knoweth that ye<br/>
have need of all these things.” He spoke<br/>
much to her of how, through God’s dis-<br/>
pensation, they had been reduced to<br/>
poverty, how He had sent sickness, the<br/>
bad harvest, and the scarcity; and argued<br/>
that the Lord, who always kept His word,<br/>
would make all things turn out for the<br/>
best.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next morning came the bailiff, and<br/>
the auctioneer with his hammer. An<br/>
offer for the property was made of 450<br/>
thalers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Will no one bid higher?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Five hundred thalers!” called a young<br/>
lad, with a stout walking stick in his hand,<br/>
a knapsack on his back, and the peace of<br/>
God in his heart, who stood before the<br/>
cottage, and had opened his pocket-book,<br/>
which was full of bank-notes. No one<br/>
bid higher, and the bargain was agreed<br/>
upon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“What is your name?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“That has nothing to do with the af-<br/>
fair; I have not bought the cottage for<br/>
myself but for its former owner. I am<br/>
a student, and was passing through here<br/>
on my journey from my home to the<br/>
university. I saw these good people at<br/>
church, and I overheard enough of what<br/>
was said by them, as they were walking<br/>
home, to make inquiry of their neighbors:<br/>
I saw the tears in this woman’s eyes, and<br/>
remarked, from the trembling lips and<br/>
clasped hands of the man, that he could<br/>
pray. Five hundred thalers will not ruin<br/>
me. I can give them, and if I miss them,<br/>
shall do so willingly, if faithful Christians<br/>
have been helped thereby.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The poor Kollers had no time to ex-<br/>
press their thanks, for, before they had<br/>
recovered from their joy and surprise,<br/>
their deliverer had vanished, and they<br/>
never saw him again, but the more fer-<br/>
vently did they thank God, who had sent<br/>
them this help. The bailiff and the<br/>
auctioneer went away, and the good couple<br/>
remained in the cottage they had inherit-<br/>
ed from their fathers; over the door of<br/>
the house they carved the inscription:<br/>
“Take no thought for the morrow; your<br/>
heavenly Father knoweth that ye have<br/>
need of all these things.”—-SUNDAYS AT<br/>
HOME.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
National Affairs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all the recent action of State Legis-<br/>
latures and Conventions of the party, the<br/>
Union men, the loyal masses, have voted<br/>
to sustain Congress, and not the President,<br/>
regarding those matters about which they<br/>
differ. And it is apparent that the feel-<br/>
ing of the great North is more radical<br/>
than conservative.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In these circumstances, it is fit that the<br/>
President should pause. He seems to<br/>
have supposed that he could carry a large<br/>
portion of the Union men into a new<br/>
party, on a "Conservative" platform,<br/>
where they would be joined by the grea-<br/>
ter part of the old Democratic party,<br/>
forming thus a combination which would<br/>
control the politics and the legislation of<br/>
the country, and take away from the<br/>
Radicals all direction of affairs. The<br/>
chief plank in the platform of the propos-<br/>
ed "Conservative" party was to be the<br/>
immediate admission of all the lately Con-<br/>
federate States into full and regular stand-<br/>
ing in the Union, with their Senators and<br/>
Representatives in the halls of Congress,<br/>
[as many of them as could take the oaths]<br/>
without requiring of them any further<br/>
guarantees, conditions, or probation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After it became quite certain that the<br/>
Civil Rights Bill would become a law,<br/>
over the veto, the President issued his<br/>
Proclamation of Peace, declaring the re-<br/>
bellion crushed, the United States author-<br/>
ity restored, and the war ended. This<br/>
action was more shrewd than wise, and<br/>
was somewhat premature; since the<br/>
authorities find it still impracticable to<br/>
withdraw the United States troops from<br/>
all parts of the South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such is the present situation. The<br/>
President, sustained by all the Democrats,<br/>
and a few of the Union men, in Congress,<br/>
insist that there shall be no more legislat-<br/>
ion in Congress, in respect to the Southern<br/>
States, and no more guarantees required<br/>
of them, till their Senators and Repre-<br/>
sentatives are admitted into Congress, and<br/>
the States are recognized as in the Union,<br/>
with all the rights of States. And this,<br/>
for the present, is what is called "Con-<br/>
servatism," in our National affairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
On the other hand, two-thirds of all<br/>
the Union members of Congress, in both<br/>
Houses, and even a larger proportion of<br/>
them, insist that the condition of affairs<br/>
in the States lately in rebellion is such,<br/>
the character of the legislation in the same<br/>
States is such, as lately accomplished,<br/>
and the acts and opinions of the Govern-<br/>
ors, Senators, and Representatives of said<br/>
States, such, as to render it unwise to ad-<br/>
mit the Senators and Representaires into<br/>
Congress, at present, or to recognize these<br/>
States as fully in the Union, for the time<br/>
being. They wish to proceed slowly;<br/>
and are in favor of requiring more guaran-<br/>
tees, than are now offered, that these<br/>
States will be true to the Union, the<br/>
Constitution, the laws of Congress, and<br/>
to the rights of the freedmen. In other<br/>
words, the Union majorities in Congress<br/>
insist that in the matter of the recon-<br/>
struction of the Union, the Union party<br/>
shall dictate the terms and not those that<br/>
sympathized with the rebellion; and that<br/>
the great results of the war shall be se-<br/>
cured beyond a doubt, and the objects<br/>
of it not defeated, after the fighting has<br/>
been done. And these views of the Union<br/>
men in Congress are, for the present,<br/>
termed "Radicalism,"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We regret the difference between the<br/>
President and the great majority in Con-<br/>
gress. We hope the Congress will be firm,<br/>
because we think they are in the right;<br/>
and we hope the President will reconsider<br/>
his position, recede, and gracefully yield<br/>
to the future measures of the Union ma-<br/>
jorities, in this matter of reconstruction;<br/>
though his late speech, of April 19th,<br/>
does not much encourage us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Otherwise, if the President persists in<br/>
his course, as during the last two months,<br/>
of threatening Congress, and parleying<br/>
with the opposition, and making common<br/>
cause with the Blairs, and talking of a<br/>
third party pledged to him and his policy.<br/>
And using his patronage for such a pur-<br/>
pose, we hope that Congress will keep its<br/>
two-thirds power compact, take its great<br/>
measures right through, make haste slow-<br/>
ly, continue in session till next March,<br/>
and see to it, in every possible way, that<br/>
"the Republic suffers no damage.? Cer-<br/>
tainly, neither the President's falter-<br/>
ing and wavering on the one hand, nor his<br/>
passion and obsti-nacy, on the other hand,<br/>
ought to be allowed to defeat the will of<br/>
the loyal masses, or to hinder the pro-<br/>
gress of the public welfare.—PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CHLOROFORM FOR BEES.—-A gentleman<br/>
writing to the MAINE FARMER says:<br/>
"Having had little satisfaction and much<br/>
trouble in fumigating bees with puff ball,<br/>
&c., I bethought me to try chloroform,<br/>
and shall never use any thing else in<br/>
future. I put about ten drops on a bit<br/>
of rag, pushed it under the hive from be-<br/>
hind, and in about five minutes the bees<br/>
were all on the bottom board. In this<br/>
way I united two swarms most success-<br/>
fully."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRENCH AGRICULTURAL'S.-—The Mon-<br/>
ITEUR DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS publishes<br/>
the following statistics respecting the<br/>
number of horses and cattle in the 89<br/>
departments of France-Horses, 3,000,-<br/>
000; asses, 400,000; mules, 330,000;<br/>
horned cattle, 10,200,000—2,000,000 oxen;<br/>
5,800,000 cows; 2,100,000 yearlings. The<br/>
number of calves produced in the last<br/>
year was 4,000,000; sheep and lambs,<br/>
35,000,000, of which 26,000,000 were<br/>
mer-inos; 1,400,000 goats and kids; 1,400,-<br/>
000 hogs above a year old; 3,900,000<br/>
sucking pigs. There are at present in<br/>
France 12,600,000 acres of natural mea-<br/>
dow land, 5,000,000 acres of arti-ficial<br/>
meadows, and 20,000,000 acres of pas-<br/>
ture land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
OILING LEATHER.—-The SCIENTIFIC<br/>
AMERICAN says that oils should not be<br/>
applied to dry leather, as they would in-<br/>
variably injure it. If you wish to oil a<br/>
harness, wet it over night, cover it with<br/>
a blanket, and in the morning it will be<br/>
dry and supple; then apply neat's-foot<br/>
oil in small quantities, and with so much<br/>
elbow grease as will insure its dissemin-<br/>
ating itself throughout the leather. A<br/>
soft pliant harness is easy to handle, and<br/>
lasts longer than a neglect-ed one. Never<br/>
use vegetable oils on leather; and among<br/>
animal oils, neat's-foot is the beast."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE WAY TO AVOID CALUMNY.—-" If<br/>
any one speaks ill of thee," said Epicte-<br/>
tus, "consider whether he hath truth on<br/>
his side; and if so, reform thyself, that<br/>
his censures may not affect thee." When<br/>
Anaxi-mander was told that the very boys<br/>
laughed at his singing. "Ay," said he,<br/>
"then I must learn to sing better." Pla-<br/>
to being told that he had many enemies<br/>
who spoke ill of him, said: "It is no<br/>
matter; I will live so that none shall be<br/>
believe them." Hearing at another time<br/>
that an intimate friend of his, had spo-<br/>
ken detractingly of him, he said: "I am<br/>
sure he would not do it, if he had not<br/>
some reason for it." This is the surest<br/>
as well as the noblest way of drawing the<br/>
sting out of a reproach, and the truest<br/>
method of preparing a man for that<br/>
great and only relief against the pains of<br/>
calumny—-A GOOD CONSCIENCE."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
August 16th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Draining the City.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to learn that our article<br/>
headed preparation for the Cholera<br/>
has commended itself to the highest<br/>
authority in the city and kingdom, and<br/>
resulted in sending a written expres-<br/>
sion of gratitude for it, and a request<br/>
that we would translate it into Siam-<br/>
ese, and give it extensive circulation.<br/>
We have translated and published it<br/>
in our Siamese Recorder, which has<br/>
by this time brought it clearly before<br/>
more than a hundred of the principal<br/>
rulers who reside in the city. We<br/>
fervently hope that the city authorities<br/>
will by it be stirred up to inaugurate<br/>
a great improvement in the matter of<br/>
sewers and drains to carry off the<br/>
filth that is prone to become intensi-<br/>
fied in very many localities but more<br/>
so in some than in others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were pleased a few hours since<br/>
in walking before the palace of a prince<br/>
and finding the path abominably mud-<br/>
dy from stagnant water and filth only<br/>
3 or 4 feet from his door, to hear him<br/>
of his own accord refer to our ideas<br/>
of fuel for the Cholera and say that<br/>
he was ashamed of that mud and filth,<br/>
and was afraid that it might give him<br/>
and his family the cholera. But Si-<br/>
amese like, he added what can I do?<br/>
How shall I get the water to run out<br/>
of this hollow! O the inefficiency of<br/>
even moneyed princes! We pointed<br/>
out in a moment how he could drain<br/>
the place by cutting a little ditch to<br/>
the river only 30 feet long which<br/>
would cost him not more than a tical<br/>
at the most.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope the city authorities will<br/>
take some course to make such men<br/>
effectually ashamed of their ineffi-<br/>
ciency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why would it not be a capital plan<br/>
for the government to adopt some sys-<br/>
tem by which the many hundreds of<br/>
prisoners in the city shall be daily<br/>
employed under enlightened and effi-<br/>
cient superintendence in cleansing the<br/>
sewers of the chief bazars and form-<br/>
ing new ones wherever needed! We<br/>
have heard that Captain Ames, Com-<br/>
missioner of the Police, has proposed<br/>
to superintend a body of prisoners for<br/>
making such improvements. Why<br/>
will not government let him do so?<br/>
Will government say it will cost too<br/>
much? If so, shame on it! Penny<br/>
wise and pound foolish! How could<br/>
those culprits be better employed?<br/>
The proper work of prisoners under<br/>
European rule is to make such im-<br/>
provements for the public good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that the side drains<br/>
to the new road Sanon-cham-ron-<br/>
kroong are clogged by the refuse mat-<br/>
ter, which the occupants by their side,<br/>
throw into them, and that they have be-<br/>
come a great nuisance, as the filth they<br/>
generate can find no outlet until it<br/>
overflows the sewers. We would say,<br/>
that if the city authorities have not<br/>
power enough to make every resident<br/>
on that street do his duty in keeping<br/>
those drains open, let them send a gang<br/>
of prisoners to do it, and then oblige<br/>
the residents to pay some suitable tax<br/>
for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 7.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fancying that some of our readers<br/>
would be pleased and profited by ob-<br/>
taining more full information concern-<br/>
ing the agricultural interests of Petcha-<br/>
buree than we have as yet given them,<br/>
we have determined to write now on<br/>
this subject.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The province of Petchaburee is re-<br/>
garded as being one of the best in the<br/>
kingdom for the growth of Rice,<br/>
the great staple of the country. As<br/>
before intimated, the paddy fields are<br/>
all on nearly a common level, so that<br/>
whenever the river overflows her banks,<br/>
the water flows into all the lots. How-<br/>
ever distant from the river. There<br/>
was, in the natural state of the surface,<br/>
a slight variation in some localities<br/>
from a perfect level, which had to be<br/>
graded down to a more exact con-<br/>
formity with the general surface of<br/>
all the lots. The ground which was<br/>
removed for this purpose was put into<br/>
the embankments, which form the<br/>
boundaries of the several lots. In<br/>
such localities as were sufficiently low<br/>
without grading, the embankments<br/>
were made by earth taken close by<br/>
their side, and hence leaving a little<br/>
ditch. This slight variation in the<br/>
original surface of the rice prairies and<br/>
the consequent necessity of grading,<br/>
accounts for the many, and as one would<br/>
think whimsical, sizes of the paddy<br/>
lots which range from a tenth to a<br/>
quarter of an acre or more each.<br/>
Small lots, each surrounded with an<br/>
embankment, show the localities that<br/>
had originally a surface slightly higher<br/>
than that of the larger lots. The<br/>
readiest way to dispose of the surplus<br/>
earth obtained in grading, was to put<br/>
it into embankments, and consequent-<br/>
ly it became necessary to have more<br/>
of them and closer together than in<br/>
lower localities. It was not desirable<br/>
to have the embankments more than<br/>
2 or 3 feet high above the surface of<br/>
the paddy lots, nor more than 3 or 4<br/>
feet thick. It must have required<br/>
much labor to grade the lots on the<br/>
more elevated localities, for it was<br/>
done, not as we do such work in the<br/>
western world with scrapers drawn by<br/>
horses or oxen, but with simple spades,<br/>
and those small, and, as we would<br/>
think, very unhandy. A lot when<br/>
graded and enclosed is a fixture as<br/>
much so as the houses of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The soil of all the paddy fields in<br/>
the Province of Petchaburee seems to<br/>
be very much the same, it being argil-<br/>
lacious with a slight mixture of sand,<br/>
and is of a yellowish color. It is not<br/>
nearly as stiff as the soil in the vicinity<br/>
of Bangkok, being like the latter an<br/>
alluvial deposit having a greater pro-<br/>
portion of red sand, probably, from its<br/>
having been formed in the process of<br/>
ages much nearer mountain regions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are large tracts of sea-level<br/>
land within 3 or 4 miles of the gulf coast<br/>
whose soil is of a slate color like that<br/>
between Bangkok and the sea; but it<br/>
is as yet too much under the influence<br/>
of sea water to be suitable for the<br/>
growth of rice. It has within the last<br/>
3 years been thoroughly tried for rais-<br/>
ing sugar cane, and a good deal of<br/>
capital invested in the experiment; but<br/>
turns out, if we have been correctly in-<br/>
formed, a great failure in consequence<br/>
of the brackish character of the cane<br/>
juice it produces. We took a lively<br/>
interest in this experiment, and feel<br/>
quite disappointed by what we have<br/>
heard of its result. We have still a<br/>
good deal of hope that science and art,<br/>
which are now being made to shine<br/>
more and more clearly upon sugar<br/>
producing interests, will soon reveal<br/>
the way by which these large tracts of<br/>
land shall be made as servicable for<br/>
the production of sugar as those on<br/>
Tacheen river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The paddy fields of Petchaburee,<br/>
like most of the fields in other parts<br/>
of Siam, are favored with a deep and<br/>
inexhaustible soil. They never wear<br/>
out however continuously employed in<br/>
growing rice, and that even without<br/>
the least effort made to manure them.<br/>
Indeed, so far from ever applying any<br/>
manure, their owners usually burn off<br/>
the stubble in the dry season instead<br/>
of allowing it to rot on the ground<br/>
and become manure. Their object in<br/>
doing this, is not for any benefit the<br/>
ashes might be in stimulating the soil,<br/>
but simply to get rid of the stubble<br/>
so that it shall not impede the plough-<br/>
ing and harrowing of the ground<br/>
for the following crop. We know not<br/>
how to account for this wonderful<br/>
vitality and strength of the soil, but<br/>
by attributing it to a kind of stimulus<br/>
it receives from the overflowing of the<br/>
river two or three times every year,<br/>
each time from a week to a fortnight<br/>
in continuance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The overflowing water runs from<br/>
one lot into another by small excava-<br/>
tion made in their embankments; and<br/>
whenever it is desired to retain the<br/>
water in the lots for the growth of the<br/>
paddy, these openings are readily<br/>
closed. You may see the farmers out<br/>
with their small spades a little before<br/>
the abundant rains are expected to<br/>
fall, all busily engaged in repairing the<br/>
embankments of their lots, some of<br/>
which had sunken too low, and some<br/>
been broken down by carts passing<br/>
over them in the dry season and by<br/>
other causes. They use their apparen-<br/>
tly awkward spades with surprising<br/>
dexterity. The blade of the spade is a<br/>
plain rectangular plate of iron 6 inches<br/>
by 4 or 5. The upper end of it is<br/>
split horizontally to form a kind of<br/>
socket for the handle which is as wide<br/>
as the blade itself, and hence without<br/>
a shoulder on which the foot can be<br/>
put to force it into the ground. In-<br/>
deed the instrument is so small and<br/>
the ground so soft at the time it is<br/>
called into service, that their arms<br/>
need no assistance from their legs. The<br/>
handles of these spades-—prooangs as<br/>
they are called—-are quite like a Roman<br/>
S much elongated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The farmers prefer not to begin<br/>
ploughing their fields until the rains<br/>
have fallen so abundantly as to leave<br/>
the water ankle deep or more on the<br/>
lots. What a pity it is that they<br/>
know not the benefit of ploughing<br/>
their paddy fields before they become<br/>
so very wet, when they might quite<br/>
eradicate the weeds and grass that<br/>
occupy the ground, and have them<br/>
all well prepared for planting, without<br/>
a great pressure when the rains and<br/>
the inundation come, which happens<br/>
sometimes suddenly, giving not half<br/>
time enough for them to plough and<br/>
plant as the season requires. And<br/>
it is furthermore quite impossible by<br/>
the course they take to prevent the<br/>
weeds and grass from springing up with<br/>
the the paddy, and doing it much damage.<br/>
What European would think of<br/>
ploughing well a field inundated with<br/>
water, even though he have the best<br/>
plough of modern invention? But<br/>
these Siamese farmers have no ploughs<br/>
or harrows which are worthy of the<br/>
name. Their ploughs do but little<br/>
more than scratch up the ground and<br/>
thus prepare it a little for their harrow,<br/>
which is but a large wooden rake.<br/>
This instrument mixes up the ground<br/>
with the water so that it becomes a<br/>
semifluid; with weeds grass and all en-<br/>
tangled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing can be more manifest than<br/>
that these native growers of rice would<br/>
be vastly benefitted by the introduction<br/>
and general use of Western ploughs<br/>
and harrows. And we have recently<br/>
published several articles in our "Siam-<br/>
ese Recorder" on this subject hoping<br/>
to lead them to abandon their old<br/>
agricultural implements of the darkest<br/>
ages, and adopt in their stead the great<br/>
improvements of modern times. We<br/>
are happy to learn that those articles<br/>
have made some note-worthy impres-<br/>
sion on the minds of several of our<br/>
readers, who have extensive paddy<br/>
fields. And we consequently hope to<br/>
be agents, though but feeble, of intro-<br/>
ducing great changes in the agriculture<br/>
of the country, and thus in this way<br/>
as well as in others, be of real service<br/>
to Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king of the Laos at Cheangmai<br/>
arrived on the 9th inst, having been<br/>
31 days in coming. He came all the<br/>
way in his royal barge attended by<br/>
about 25 other state boats. We had<br/>
the honor of meeting him on the 12th,<br/>
and of being saluted as an old ac-<br/>
quaintance and friend. He enquired<br/>
kindly after the welfare of our son-in-<br/>
law and family, who made a tour to<br/>
his capital in the year 1863, as he had<br/>
heard that his wife did not enjoy<br/>
good health. We were glad to report<br/>
to him the goodness of the Lord to<br/>
the family in granting full restoration<br/>
to health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the regular year, when ac-<br/>
cording to a long established custom<br/>
the king of Cheangmai should pay his<br/>
triennial visit to His Majesty the king<br/>
of Siam as his Suzurain, bringing with<br/>
him the usual tribute of a silver tree, a<br/>
gold tree, a gold necklace and finger<br/>
rings richly decked with precious<br/>
stones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We accidentally had a view of the<br/>
trees before they were presented. They<br/>
are about 8 feet high. The silver tree<br/>
is said to contain 30 tamlungs of the<br/>
purest silver, equal to 120 ticals, and<br/>
the gold tree 15 tamlungs of the finest<br/>
gold equal to 1080 ticals. We had<br/>
before seen at the palaces of the kings<br/>
of Siam many silver and gold trees of<br/>
equal richness, probably, and perhaps<br/>
more so, but none of them were half as<br/>
clear and bright as these. Those<br/>
were old and dusty, these new and<br/>
clean.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The bodies of the trees are two<br/>
inches in diameter at the bottom and<br/>
of suitable proportions as they extend<br/>
straight upward. Each had the ap-<br/>
pearance of being made entirely of<br/>
the precious metal it purported to be.<br/>
How precious would be that gold tree<br/>
if it were wholly of that metal? But<br/>
it was only a tin cylinder heavily<br/>
plated, and the limbs of it being some<br/>
40 or 50 in number were made of iron<br/>
wire gilded, and so graduated as to<br/>
form a very graceful top much like<br/>
the shape of a clove tree. The leaves<br/>
and petals of the flowers are of solid<br/>
gold and they are certainly very neat-<br/>
ly wrought, displaying with wonder-<br/>
ful accurateness even the ribs and<br/>
veins of the leaves. The flowers are<br/>
of the size of small roses and have a<br/>
purple bud the size of a lotus seed in<br/>
their centre. The tree stands on a<br/>
small artificial gilded mound.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The silver tree is of the same size<br/>
and shape, with leaves and flowers in<br/>
imitation of the same tree, said to be<br/>
indigenous in the Laos country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gold necklace is said to be<br/>
decked with 4 rubies of the size of a<br/>
lotus seed, and 100 of the size of a<br/>
grain of Indian corn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king of Cheangmai has come<br/>
down earlier this year than usual, as<br/>
we are informed, for the purpose of<br/>
clearing himself of charges which had<br/>
been rumoured against his loyalty to<br/>
the king of Siam as his Suzarain. He<br/>
had been represented by certain par-<br/>
ties, as having become dissatisfied<br/>
with His Majesty as Protector, and<br/>
was designing to transfer that relation-<br/>
ship, if possible, to His Majesty the<br/>
king of Burmah. We are happy to<br/>
learn, that he has fully satisfied the<br/>
Siamese government that he has nev-<br/>
er entertained a thought of taking<br/>
such a step. The report of his dis-<br/>
loyalty it appears all grew out of the<br/>
fact that in consideration of some<br/>
kindnesses shown the king of Cheang-<br/>
mai by the king of Burmah he sent him<br/>
two elephants possessed of some pecu-<br/>
liar excellencies in having white eyes<br/>
and singular tails but not being in any<br/>
sense white elephants. With these<br/>
peculiarities the king of Ava was<br/>
much pleased, and sent the king of<br/>
Cheangmai in return some gold ora-<br/>
ments richly decked with rubies which<br/>
was probably much more than a full<br/>
compensation for the animals. The<br/>
rich present may have been designed<br/>
to prepare the way for requesting the<br/>
king of Cheangmai to deliver up a cer-<br/>
tain Burmese subject who had been an<br/>
officer of high rank in Burmah, who<br/>
having rebelled, fled and took refuge<br/>
in the jurisdiction of the king of<br/>
Cheangmai Not long since a high of-<br/>
ficer of Burmah sent a messenger to<br/>
the king of Cheangmai requesting the<br/>
rendition of that fugitive. And there<br/>
is good evidence that the latter proved<br/>
his loyalty to the king of Siam by<br/>
saying that he could not grant the re-<br/>
quest without first obtaining authority<br/>
from the government of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With regard to the great law case<br/>
about teak timber, pending between<br/>
Racha Boot a nephew of the king of<br/>
Cheangmai and the successors of the<br/>
late Captain Burn, we have heard but<br/>
little since the arrival of the king.<br/>
From the little we have gathered, it<br/>
would seem that justice would acquit<br/>
Racha Boot in the form if not<br/>
wholly. It is understood that the king<br/>
of Cheangmai will remain here many<br/>
months for the purpose of having the<br/>
case definitively settled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment are about dispatching messen-<br/>
gers to Maulmain overland, and an-<br/>
other company by Steamer via Sing-<br/>
apore to notify all parties concerned<br/>
in the suit, that the king of Cheangmai<br/>
is now ready for the trial of the case<br/>
here in Bangkok, and will wait a<br/>
suitable time for his accusers to come<br/>
hither and have their claims tried<br/>
before H. B. M's Consul for Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government seems to be resting<br/>
upon its oars, waiting for something<br/>
to turn up to engage its attention. In<br/>
the mean time it has set Mr. C.—at<br/>
rummaging four large volumes touch-<br/>
ing the relations of the native govern-<br/>
ments of India to the British govern-<br/>
ment, under whose protection they<br/>
exist, to find light on this great sub-<br/>
ject with which Siam is necessarily<br/>
becoming more and more interested.<br/>
We hope enough light will be found<br/>
to direct her effectually in the path of<br/>
wisdom ere it shall be too late.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home is now giving much of his at-<br/>
tention to the erection of buildings<br/>
supposed to be indispensable for the<br/>
cremation of the remains of his brother,<br/>
His late Excellency Phya Montree<br/>
Sooriwougs. The burning is to take<br/>
place, we hear, about the 24th proximo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king is now much<br/>
engaged with the king of Cheangmai.<br/>
We learn that the presents which the<br/>
latter has brought were sent to him by<br/>
the king of Burmah, and now, in true<br/>
loyalty, he is going to present them to<br/>
his Lord Paramount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CAPTAIN PETERSON of the Siamese<br/>
barque "Heng Hoi," we are informed,<br/>
left a few days ago not expecting to<br/>
return to this country again, as he<br/>
feels that he has laid up sufficient<br/>
money to allow of his retiring from<br/>
sea-life. To show his thanks to the<br/>
country and the people amongst whom<br/>
he has made his fortune, he fired a<br/>
salute of 21 guns and then saluted<br/>
regularly every Siamese square rigged<br/>
vessel outside of the bar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our wells of local news have mostly<br/>
been filled or dried up. There seems<br/>
to be little or nothing doing in the<br/>
way of commerce, especially among<br/>
the few Europeans left among us. The<br/>
steam-rice-mills are running and puf-<br/>
fing almost continually and keep up a<br/>
hopeful show, if nothing more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry to hear that the Queen<br/>
of Cheangmai is now alarmingly ill of<br/>
dysentery, having lean seized with the<br/>
complaint a little before her arrival.<br/>
Her daughter also the wife of Kyaw<br/>
Meen Kyaw prime minister of the<br/>
king of Cheangmai, and her grand-<br/>
daughter aged 7 years, we are pained<br/>
to learn, are dangerously ill of the<br/>
same disease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two of the king's men have recent-<br/>
ly died of dysentry. One died on the<br/>
way, and more than a dozen of the<br/>
men are now invalids from the same<br/>
cause. These triennial visits of the<br/>
king seem always to be made with<br/>
much loss of life to his retinue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to report that the city<br/>
and country appear as yet to be<br/>
exempt from the Cholera. It is quite<br/>
remarkable that we have heard of no<br/>
case since more than a year ago. It<br/>
had become an annual visitor in spor-<br/>
adic cases in the months of April, May<br/>
and June. And no year has passed for<br/>
a long time, if our memory serves us<br/>
rightly, without its appearance in this<br/>
Metropolis in its least fearful form.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we were going to press the Steamer<br/>
"Chow Phya" arrived, and from papers<br/>
received by her we have the following<br/>
telegram;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, JULY 20TH.—-Preliminaries of<br/>
Peace signed. Armistice indefinitely pro-<br/>
longed. Prussians remain in Bohemia<br/>
and Moravia. Atlantic Cable successfully<br/>
Laid.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Weekly Mail between
England and India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Parliamentary enquiry which is<br/>
now in progress, relative to the com-<br/>
munication between the East Indies and<br/>
the United Kingdom, promises to be at-<br/>
tended with one happy result. It is<br/>
rumoured that the Committee of the<br/>
House of Commons intend to offer a strong<br/>
recommendation to Her Majesty's Go-<br/>
vernment, for the despatch of a weekly<br/>
mail between England and Bombay, and<br/>
that private Companies be allowed the<br/>
privilege of constructing Telegraph lines<br/>
in any direction, they believe would be<br/>
profitable to themselves. There is a pros-<br/>
pect, therefore, of the present Over-<br/>
land communication being improved, and<br/>
of new lines of telegraph being laid down<br/>
under the auspices of private enterprise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LICE ON HENS AND CHICKENS.—-Raise<br/>
the wings of setting hens, and examine<br/>
them closely for vermin. Sometimes lice<br/>
annoy hens so grievously, that they will<br/>
quit the nest. Apply sweet oil beneath<br/>
their wings; and also oil chickens and<br/>
young turkeys that are infested with lice.<br/>
Lice will sometimes stick around the<br/>
root of the bill of turkeys and chickens,<br/>
in the skin. Provide a box of dry sand<br/>
where they can roll in it; and lice will<br/>
find it so uncomfortable in their feathers,<br/>
that they will seek other quarters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNPRODUCTIVE FRUIT TREES.—-Some-<br/>
times fruit trees are unproductive from<br/>
other causes than poverty of the soil, or<br/>
neglect of the orchardist. They often<br/>
grow too luxuriantly to bear well. In<br/>
this case root-pruning is very effectual,<br/>
and is performed by digging a circle<br/>
round the tree. A fifteen year old tree,<br/>
for instance, may be encircled at five feet<br/>
from the trunk. No rules can be laid down<br/>
for this; judgment must be exercised.<br/>
If cut too close the tree may be stunted<br/>
for years, and if too far it will not be<br/>
effective. The aim should be to reduce<br/>
the root about one-third.—-GARDENER'S<br/>
MONTHLY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MARKING EGGS.—-Every egg should<br/>
be marked with a pencil, or red chalk,<br/>
before placing it beneath the hen. Then,<br/>
when more eggs are laid in the nest, they<br/>
may be removed. Sometimes a hen will<br/>
drop an egg two or three days after she<br/>
has commenced sitting. It is not well<br/>
to have too many eggs in one nest. Hens<br/>
that are sitting should be lifted gently,<br/>
every day, to see if other hens have not<br/>
laid in their nests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(Only is often more than one-lie.)<br/>
Beware of an "only," "'tis but," and "just one:"<br/>
These traitors have many a coward undoe,<br/>
All Troy for one woman in ashes was laid;<br/>
One tree mother Eve into ruin betrayed;<br/>
One crack will suffice that a vase be not sound;<br/>
One spark, and all London on fire was found;<br/>
One worm-eaten stick is enough for a wreck;<br/>
But one step too far, and a fall breaks our neck;<br/>
From only one word many quarrels begin;<br/>
And only this once leads to many a sin;<br/>
Only a penny wastes many a pound;<br/>
Only once more, and the diver was drowned;<br/>
Only one drop many drunkards has made;<br/>
Only in play many gamblers have said;<br/>
Only a cold opens many a grave;<br/>
Only resist many evils will save.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A visit to the ruined Cities
and buildings of Cambodia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
By Dr. A. Bastian.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principle ruins of Cambodia are<br/>
concentrated in the Province of Siem-<br/>
rab—although they are not confined to<br/>
it—-but scattered over a wide extent<br/>
of the neighboring country. Coming<br/>
from Bangkok I left the road from<br/>
Battambong at Tasavai or Sisuphon, and<br/>
taking a northwesterly direction arrived<br/>
at Panom Sok, where the remains of<br/>
an old palace can be traced. The<br/>
ground is low and swampy and flood-<br/>
ed during three months of the year.<br/>
The whole country between Siam and<br/>
Cambodia is an inclined plain falling<br/>
off to the sea from Khon Donrek-—or<br/>
highlands of Korat—-which constitute<br/>
the first platform of the terraces that<br/>
ascend to the mountain chains of Laos,<br/>
thence to the Himalyas, Khoa Donrek<br/>
—-or the mountains which bear on the<br/>
shoulder. i.e. "The Atlas" enclosed<br/>
in its domaine the Dong Phya-fai—<br/>
the jungle of the Lord of fire—-and<br/>
gives rise to most of the tributary<br/>
streams flowing to the Puchim river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two days to the East of Kubin the<br/>
water shed between the Gulf of Siam,<br/>
and the outlets of Mekhong is passed;<br/>
and the intervening space, before<br/>
the basin of the Thalesab, which drains<br/>
the valley of Cambodia, is converted<br/>
into a lake every year during the rainy<br/>
season. From August to November<br/>
all voyages are made in boats; during<br/>
the rest of the year the water becomes<br/>
dry land, and the traveler, who then<br/>
traverses these regions, on a buffalo<br/>
cart or an Elephant may still see the<br/>
boats which had been afloat in the<br/>
months of the rainy season, and which<br/>
await its return, lying about in the<br/>
forest and plains, where, in March<br/>
and April, it suffers greatly from want of<br/>
water. When I passed there in the<br/>
month of December the two seasons<br/>
were still contending for the mastery,<br/>
and I found, to my dismay, the truth<br/>
of what a Siamese noble had told me<br/>
of before my departure—-that the<br/>
ground would not be dry enough for<br/>
carts nor watery enough for boats.<br/>
Often when toiling through these<br/>
marshy swamps I looked wistfully up<br/>
to the ridge which at the elevation of<br/>
six or eight feet ran high and dry<br/>
through the lowland, sometimes stretch-<br/>
ing along one side of the road, some-<br/>
times crossing it at right angles to<br/>
plunge into the depths of the forest—-<br/>
and then to appear again as if to mock<br/>
our slow progress and invite us to<br/>
bestride and follow its course. This<br/>
elevated ridge was the remains of the<br/>
old highway of "Khamen boran"—-<br/>
(who built the stone monuments) and<br/>
it can be traced, as the natives told<br/>
me, from the neighborhood of Noph<br/>
or (Nokh buri) a large city of Siam<br/>
now nearly deserted, straight up to<br/>
Nakhon Watt; from which place it<br/>
continues to the centre of Cochin<br/>
China, and none of the people I met<br/>
with had seen its terminus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Following the serpentine turns of<br/>
the Indian path, I was put in mind of<br/>
my wanderings in Peru, where the<br/>
traveler winds his way over a broken<br/>
and intersected ground, climbing hills<br/>
on the one side to descend them on<br/>
the other—-and wading rocky streams,<br/>
brawling down precipitous valleys—-<br/>
sees above his head the remnants of<br/>
the ancient road of the Incas which<br/>
leads along the level of the high plat-<br/>
eau in a straight line to Cuzco the<br/>
capital. Chasms are spanned by mag-<br/>
nificent stone bridges in Peru, and<br/>
although the difficulties to be over-<br/>
come in the low lands of Cambodia<br/>
cannot be compared with the wild and<br/>
grand nature of the Andes, the stone<br/>
bridges that these ancient Cambodians<br/>
built over comparatively insignificant<br/>
streams, rival in the boldness of con-<br/>
ception, and even surpass the Peruvian<br/>
bridges, and seem to prove that their<br/>
builders must have been a people ac-<br/>
customed to struggle with the obstacles<br/>
of mountainous countries. Dwellers<br/>
in the lowlands would scarcely have<br/>
thought of raising such immense works<br/>
to escape the water, which they rather<br/>
seek as their favorite means of con-<br/>
veyance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first induction of what I should<br/>
have to see in this mysterious land of<br/>
ruins met my view on the evening of<br/>
the day on which we had left Panom<br/>
Sok. We were encamped in a clearing<br/>
of the forest near the banks of a small<br/>
stream called Lamsong by the Siam-<br/>
ese, or Sibang [?] Sin by the Cambodians,<br/>
when the guide given me by the Gov-<br/>
ernor of Panom Sok, asked if I should<br/>
like to see the Taphan hin—-the stone<br/>
bridge. I followed the path indicated,<br/>
and at a place where the foliage parted<br/>
darkly round the foaming water of the<br/>
stream, which falls there in cascades<br/>
over a ridge of rocks, I saw stretched<br/>
across it a colossal structure 400 feet<br/>
long and 50 wide, which overgrows<br/>
with grass and weeds was supported<br/>
by 80 arched pillars built of huge<br/>
stones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In traversing the countries of Ultra<br/>
India, in the vast ruins of Pegu<br/>
and Ava, or in the ancient capitals of<br/>
Siam, the only witnesses one meets<br/>
to tell of the past are brick buildings<br/>
decayed and crumbling to pieces; but<br/>
here I stood before a work built of<br/>
stone, still uninjured and apparently<br/>
as firm and strong as on the day of its<br/>
first being placed there. The bridge<br/>
of the landing is built of free stone<br/>
except the inferior layers of the pillars<br/>
for which a hard conglomerato is used<br/>
wherever they are exposed to the ac-<br/>
tion of the water. They are placed in<br/>
a ridge of rocks which there lies across<br/>
the river and are riveted firmly in this<br/>
natural foundation. The stones forming<br/>
the pillars are of oblong shape, and<br/>
are laid in lines with the broad side<br/>
six or eight feet towards the river. The<br/>
pillars stand in pairs arching in oppo-<br/>
site directions, at the bases the distance<br/>
is about six feet. The stones project<br/>
gradually towards the top, inclining in<br/>
an arch which are thus closed after<br/>
the manner of Mycena.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The body of the bridge is formed<br/>
by large stone beams fourteen feet or<br/>
more in length, which stretch in several<br/>
layers one above the other. The<br/>
upper ones are placed alternately on<br/>
the ridges of the lower ones, and thus<br/>
their very weight contributes to keep<br/>
the arch steady. There was formerly<br/>
a balustrade which lined the bridge<br/>
on both sides but is now mostly<br/>
thrown down, these ornamental parts<br/>
of the massive structure being the only<br/>
ones on which the wanton destroyers<br/>
could wreak their vengeance. It was<br/>
composed of a series of long quarry<br/>
stones, on the ridges of which Carya-<br/>
tidian pillars, representing Puya Nak,<br/>
—-or the king of the subterranean ser-<br/>
pents, supported another slab, with<br/>
an excavation all along its rim to re-<br/>
ceive in it a semi-convex stone with<br/>
Arabesque sculptures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the left bank of the river a stair<br/>
case of a Ghaut leads down to the<br/>
water at a place where a temple is said<br/>
formerly to have stood, and under a<br/>
shed in a neighboring part of the forest<br/>
I found a collection of Brahminical<br/>
'Idols' including four handed Vishnus<br/>
and Ganesa with his Elephant head<br/>
which had been placed there by his<br/>
worshippers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In examining the “Sau Chao” in<br/>
Cambodia which like the Wat houses<br/>
in Birma, and the Dewales in Ceylon<br/>
in most cases adjoin a Buddhistical<br/>
monastry, I have frequently found<br/>
fragments of these and similar statues,<br/>
together with offerings that had been<br/>
laid before them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The landing had high and steep<br/>
banks at the time I saw it; but it is<br/>
filled to the brim, according to native<br/>
account, in the rainy season, when the<br/>
rocks which form the rapids, being<br/>
covered, the stream runs smoothly<br/>
along. Another stone bridge, called<br/>
Taphan Thup-—or Celestial bridge-—is<br/>
said to exist a little further up the river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next morning we passed over<br/>
the bridge with the roaring water be-<br/>
low; but as soon as the natives left<br/>
the other side they again left the dir-<br/>
ection of the old causeway to grope<br/>
their way through narrow and muddy<br/>
paths in the jungle. The afternoon of<br/>
the same day we arrived at the ruins<br/>
of another bridge, over the Paleng<br/>
river, which, according to popular tra-<br/>
dition, was left unfinished by the arch-<br/>
itects because the country was invaded<br/>
by the enemy who destroyed Nakhon<br/>
Watt. This bridge is likewise of stone<br/>
and has even in its imperfect state<br/>
outlived many centuries, whereas the<br/>
wooden bridges along the military<br/>
road built lately by the Siamese Gen-<br/>
eral “Chow Khoon bodin” from Pa-<br/>
chan to Battabong, are even now,<br/>
after hardly thirty years of existence,<br/>
out of repairs or totally broken down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plan of the bridge over the<br/>
Paleng river is the same as the one<br/>
previously described, the vaults being<br/>
formed of layers of stone projecting<br/>
four or six inches beyond those be-<br/>
neath. The people told me of three<br/>
other stone bridges somewhere in the<br/>
neighborhood, but I did not see them<br/>
on my way, as I found myself in two<br/>
days after in Siem-rab, the government<br/>
town of the province of the same<br/>
name, and from thence started for the<br/>
province of Nakhoo Watt two hours<br/>
distant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first impression this monument<br/>
makes is overwhelming. It is Ellora's<br/>
Kailasa taken out of it dark cave and<br/>
placed high in air, and the sculptures<br/>
rival in their elegant and animated<br/>
style the best of those at Mahabalipar-<br/>
iam. The chasteness of the design<br/>
recalls the classic style of Greece, but<br/>
an examination of the details shows it<br/>
to be mixed up with Indian extrava-<br/>
gances, like the architecture of the<br/>
Kashmerian temples. As I am in-<br/>
formed that the temple has been late-<br/>
ly described in the journal of the roy-<br/>
al Geographical Society, and as my<br/>
notes are as yet not properly arranged,<br/>
I shall confine myself to a few remarks<br/>
upon the delineations on the walls of<br/>
the outer corridor, which encases the<br/>
peristyles of the inner temple.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
To be Continued.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siam and Farther India
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The following article, which appeared<br/>
in the “MACEDONIAN” for Nov. 1863,<br/>
gives a lively view of Siam as taken by an<br/>
old resident in retrospect at the beginning<br/>
of that year.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From some points of view Siam<br/>
takes quite a high position. The<br/>
treaties with the great nations of the<br/>
earth do them much credit, and have<br/>
been of much service already to the<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First came the British Lion, grow-<br/>
ling and pawing, causing the whole<br/>
community to tremble for very fear,<br/>
and making the king and nobles wil-<br/>
ling to come to any terms, if the king<br/>
of beasts would but withdraw in peace<br/>
from their little defenceless kingdom.<br/>
Ere the Lion's growl had died away,<br/>
the American Eagle, soaring over the<br/>
wide waters, lit upon the very lair of<br/>
the king of beasts, and said in turn,<br/>
‘Give us to the British Lion,’ and it<br/>
was done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hopes were now at the height. Ships<br/>
stood in fleets to buy the produce of<br/>
the country. Foreigners flocked hith-<br/>
er in comparative multitudes, expec-<br/>
ting to make fortunes—-they hardly<br/>
knew how. Some came as merchants,<br/>
some as seamen, some as interpreters,<br/>
some as merchants, shipwrights, harbor<br/>
masters, gold diggers, bakers, ship<br/>
chandlers, &c. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The nation looked on with great<br/>
fear and trembling, feeling at every<br/>
point that they were about to be<br/>
sacrificed—-and no wonder. Till now<br/>
they had lived in solitude, calling<br/>
themselves the great nation, and feel-<br/>
ing that they alone were the true<br/>
people, and all others barbarians.<br/>
Even the inhabitants of the great Cel-<br/>
estial Empire were to them but an<br/>
uncultivated race of workers, hewers<br/>
of wood and drawers of water. But<br/>
what could be done? Treaties had<br/>
been made; the seal of the great king<br/>
and his nobles affixed. Foreigners<br/>
must be allowed to come and buy and<br/>
sell-—there was no help.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The only safeguard was to have the<br/>
natives study English; study foreign<br/>
customs; have wise advisers-—a sort<br/>
of phalanx of mediators between them-<br/>
selves and the great worlds towards<br/>
the setting sun. This had its evils,<br/>
and for many, many months the new<br/>
treaties brought nothing but trouble<br/>
to the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Eventually everything found its<br/>
level. The great flood of foreigners<br/>
were lessened by a variety of casual-<br/>
ties and sickness and disasters, till<br/>
we were reduced to a few merchants,<br/>
a few harbor masters, and certain of-<br/>
ficials needed in trade. The consuls<br/>
of the various nations represented in<br/>
treaties, gradually gave character to<br/>
the foreign community, till all the af-<br/>
fairs of the kingdom proceeded harmo-<br/>
niously, prosperously, and to the<br/>
decided advantage of the country in<br/>
many respects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king and many prominent<br/>
nobles, and wealthy Chinamen, bought<br/>
or built sailing vessels and steamers,<br/>
and competed successfully with for-<br/>
eigners in the China and Singapore<br/>
trade. They even sent ships to Eng-<br/>
land. The export of rice excited to<br/>
increased industry among the farm-<br/>
ing community, and gave them a<br/>
degree of independence before un-<br/>
known. The export duties brought<br/>
a great deal of money into the public<br/>
treasury, and enabled the king, at the<br/>
suggestion of foreigners, to add much<br/>
to the prosperity and advantage of the<br/>
country, by public roads, new canals,<br/>
bridges, and public buildings. In-<br/>
deed, the present king has done more<br/>
in this respect than all that have gone<br/>
before him. He has done himself<br/>
great credit, and distinguished him-<br/>
self among the western nations by the<br/>
stand he has taken as a friend of com-<br/>
merce.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rich and the Poor:
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WHO ENJOY THE MOST?
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I will say, for example, that you are a<br/>
workingman, earning a pound or two a<br/>
week, and that I am an independent per-<br/>
son with an income of ten thousand a<br/>
year. I will not take the example of a<br/>
king, because I apprehend few persons<br/>
in their senses would aspire to that un-<br/>
comfortable position. Well, then, we are<br/>
both men, with the same senses and the<br/>
same appetites. As regards our animal<br/>
natures, you eat, drink, and sleep ; I can<br/>
do no more. Provided we both have suf-<br/>
ficient, there is no real difference in the<br/>
satisfaction we derive from these indul-<br/>
gences. My meal may be composed of<br/>
the so-called “delicacies of the season,”<br/>
while yours may be simply a steak and<br/>
potatoes. When we have both laid down<br/>
our knives and forks and cried, “Enough,”<br/>
the sensation is the same in both cases.<br/>
If you hanker after my delicacies, you<br/>
own to a desire simply to give your palate<br/>
a passing gratification. Your food is real-<br/>
ly more wholesome and nourishing than<br/>
mine, and, if you were content, you<br/>
would enjoy it quite as much. The real<br/>
fact is, that these “delicacies of the sea-<br/>
son” are invented and concocted for me,<br/>
not because they are good for me, or be-<br/>
cause there is any great amount of enjoy-<br/>
ment in the consumption of them, but<br/>
because I have a vast deal of money to<br/>
throw away. I merely conform to a<br/>
fashion in ordering and paying for them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I began with salmon, for instance.<br/>
You think you would like to have salmon<br/>
every day for dinner. Try it three times<br/>
running. Why, in old days, before rail-<br/>
ways established a ready and rapid com-<br/>
munication with the London markets,<br/>
the servants of country gentlemen resid-<br/>
ing on the banks of the Severn, the Tey,<br/>
the Dee, and the Spey, made a stipula-<br/>
tion in their terms of engagement that<br/>
they should not be fed upon salmon more<br/>
than three times a week. Pheasant and<br/>
partridge are delicacies of the season ;<br/>
but always to dine on pheasant and par-<br/>
tridge would be less tolerable than per-<br/>
petual bread and water. There is noth-<br/>
ing for which a man should be more<br/>
thankful than an ever-recurring appetite<br/>
for plain beef and mutton—-nothing ex-<br/>
cept the means of indulging that appetite.<br/>
These highly-spiced dishes, called by fine<br/>
French names, which are set upon the<br/>
tables of the rich and great, are mere<br/>
cooks' tricks to stimulate the languid ap-<br/>
petite. To hanker after such things is to<br/>
have a longing for physic, not for whole-<br/>
some food. Many grand folks who habi-<br/>
tually eat them are miserable creatures,<br/>
who have to coax their stomachs at every<br/>
meal-—pitiable victims of dyspepsia and<br/>
gout.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
People who envy the luxurious feasts<br/>
of the rich should know that the wise<br/>
men who sit down to them only make a<br/>
pretence of partaking of the so-called<br/>
good things that are placed before them.<br/>
I have heard that the cabinet ministers,<br/>
before they go into the city to the Lord<br/>
Mayor's banquet, dine quietly at home<br/>
on some simple and wholesome viands,<br/>
knowing that there will be many dishes<br/>
on the groaning table of Guildhall which<br/>
they dare not touch. The Queen spreads<br/>
her table with all the most elaborate pro-<br/>
ductions of the culinary art ; but she<br/>
herself makes her dinner off a cut of sim-<br/>
ple mutton. Cook as you will, and lavish<br/>
money as you will, there is no exceeding<br/>
the enjoyment of that carter sitting by<br/>
the road-side thumbing his bread and<br/>
cheese!—-ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Laugh of Woman
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A woman has no natural gift more be-<br/>
witching than a sweet laugh. It is like<br/>
the sound of flutes on the water. It leaps<br/>
from her in a clear, sparkling rill and the<br/>
heart that hears it feels as if bathed in the<br/>
cool, exhilarating spring. Have you ever<br/>
pursued an unseen fugitive through trees,<br/>
led on by a fairy who [....]—now here, now<br/>
there, now lost, now found. We have,<br/>
and we are pursuing that warbling voice<br/>
to this day. Sometimes it comes to us in<br/>
the midst of care, or sorrow, or irksome<br/>
business, and then we turn away and lis-<br/>
ten, and hear it ringing in the room like<br/>
a silver bell, with power to scare away the<br/>
evil spirit of mind. How much we owe<br/>
to that sweet laugh! It turns prose to<br/>
poetry; it dissolves clouds of [....] over<br/>
the darkness of the soul; it makes us, ere<br/>
traveling, it teaches faith in the even our<br/>
sleep, which is no more than the image of<br/>
death, but is consumed with dreams that<br/>
are the shadows of immortality.—PREN-<br/>
TICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Home of a Rothschild.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The estate of La Ferriere was purchas-<br/>
ed thirty years ago by Rothschild from<br/>
the heirs of Fouche, Duke of Otranto, for<br/>
the sum of 2,600,000 francs. It has since<br/>
been considerably increased, and it now<br/>
consists of thirty-seven thousand English<br/>
acres. Like the great Foederick, who<br/>
vainly tried to purchase the mill at San<br/>
Souci which came twixt the wind and his<br/>
nobility, the Baron has vainly endeavour-<br/>
ed to buy a farm of fifteen acres which<br/>
happens to be in the centre of his vast do-<br/>
main. The gold of the Rothschilds will<br/>
not tempt the obdurate PAYMAN to part<br/>
with his beloved heritage. Curious to<br/>
say, the adjoining estates belong to the<br/>
mighty Pereires, the only name in France<br/>
which, in point of financial power, can<br/>
rival that of Rothschild.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The Emperor's visit in 1865 to La<br/>
Ferrieres will be remembered. Every<br/>
hour which his Majesty breathed in this<br/>
superb mansion cost the host a million.<br/>
Till that time no artist had been allowed<br/>
to sketch the chateau; and it being a hid-<br/>
eous amalgamation of incorrect style,<br/>
such as would give Mr. Ruskin a shiver<br/>
even to contemplate in a photograph, I<br/>
think the Baron evinced his good sense in<br/>
not permitting his house to be seen in<br/>
prints. Imagine a huge building, partly<br/>
old English and partly Chinese in its de-<br/>
coration, surrounded by exquisite grounds,<br/>
in the designs of which Paxton had no in-<br/>
considerable part, immense tanks well<br/>
stocked with fish, and an indescribable air<br/>
of artificial ornament pervading the whole,<br/>
which conveys to one the idea that one of<br/>
the sumptuous palace in the Champs Ély-<br/>
sées had been transported to the flat plains<br/>
of La Brie.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The interior arrangements, however,<br/>
are faultless-—a double staircase leads to<br/>
the hall, which is eighty-five feet in height,<br/>
and lit from the roof by a dome of glass<br/>
illuminated at night by eleven hundred<br/>
and fifty gas burners. The gallery sepa-<br/>
rates this vast hall from the dwelling-<br/>
rooms, each of which would supply in it-<br/>
self enough treasures for a very respect-<br/>
able exhibition. Byzantine arm-chairs,<br/>
pictures by Velasques, Joseph Vernet, Gui-<br/>
do, Vandyke, and I know not how many<br/>
more great masters, almost fatigue the<br/>
spectator by their repeated claims for ad-<br/>
miration. The most comfortable chair in<br/>
the SALON DE FAMILLE was once the<br/>
throne of a Chinese Emperor, presented<br/>
by that Celestial to a Rothschild. A sofa<br/>
in this said room is covered by Oriental<br/>
embroidery bearing the Imperial Dragon.<br/>
The Baron's private study is furnished<br/>
with Gobelin tapestry worked from designs<br/>
by Boucher. The walls of the smoking-<br/>
room are entirely covered by Russia leath-<br/>
er, exactly the tint of a cigar, and on this<br/>
costly material Horace Larry has painted<br/>
exquisite frescoes. The family dining-<br/>
room is decorated by sporting subjects,<br/>
executed by Philippe Rousseau. It opens<br/>
on a small and very plain synagogue. It<br/>
was in too large a dining-room that the Em-<br/>
peror and his suite partook of the celebra-<br/>
ted luncheon in 1862, served on Bernard<br/>
de Palissy china and plate chiselled by<br/>
Gouttieres."-—PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Christianity and the New Dis-
coveries at Pompeii.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last reports from the excavations<br/>
at Pompeii tell us that its inhabitants<br/>
were making a jest of our Christianity,<br/>
and caricaturing on their walls its chief<br/>
doctrine of a crucified God, at the mo-<br/>
ment Vesuvius was heaving with the fiery<br/>
flood that was to submerge for a thousand<br/>
years the city of so many graceful fanes<br/>
and palaces.........In the year 79 of era—-<br/>
only forty years after Christ's death—-<br/>
how was it in that sacredotal Alexandria<br/>
which formed the most beautiful watering-<br/>
place of old Italy? As we descend<br/>
through the causeway opened to us by a<br/>
modern pickaxe, and survey the city........<br/>
it costs little effort of fancy to recall it<br/>
as it then stood........and picture it on the<br/>
day when merry amateurs were scoring<br/>
on one part of the palace of Pansa<br/>
humorous abuse against the new creed,<br/>
and some sedater artist-—won to it, it<br/>
may be, by the persuasiveness of one of<br/>
its first apostles—-was congenially sculp-<br/>
turing in another part of the house the<br/>
devotional cross that remains unfinished<br/>
to this hour........Strange! "The super-<br/>
stition" which was already going about,<br/>
conquering and to conquer, and which<br/>
latter won to its faith every other Roman<br/>
city, never won Pompeii—-never won it,<br/>
between amid the last orgies of vice, and<br/>
to the music of pipe and tabor, the choi-<br/>
cest of the cities of Satan went down<br/>
bodily into Hades. As strange is it:<br/>
more than a thousand years later-—long<br/>
after Christianity had become the religion<br/>
of the State all over Europe the Old<br/>
Sorceress re-appeared amongst us with<br/>
much the same aspect and garments as<br/>
those with which she had disappeared.<br/>
The wonderful microcosm that enshrined<br/>
as in a model all the marvels of a worship<br/>
that had degenerated until it was without<br/>
soul or life, is now without soul or life<br/>
itself; and priestess, dead now as once<br/>
living, are found in mute attendance on<br/>
deities who, with their fanes and altars,<br/>
represent a system which—-thanks to the<br/>
Crucifixion it ridiculed—-is no more a<br/>
part of the world we live in, than we of<br/>
the world submerged under Noah.—<br/>
LONDON MORNING HERALD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Trust and look upward.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lord has died, and faint not. The<br/>
Lord has risen; doubt not. The Lord is<br/>
exalted, fear not. The Lord reigneth:<br/>
hesitate not. The Lord returneth: delay<br/>
not. Believe, and that with all simplicity,<br/>
and with all joy. Believe, and bring be-<br/>
fore Him the wants of thine own heart<br/>
and daily life, the daily requirements of<br/>
thy soul: trust and look upward. Believe,<br/>
and bring before Him the wants of thy<br/>
friends, both for body and soul: trust and<br/>
look upward. Believe, and bring before<br/>
Him the wants of the church: trust and<br/>
look upward. Believe, and bring before<br/>
Him the wants of the world, and still<br/>
trustingly look upward! "The night<br/>
cometh, and also the morning." Soon the<br/>
Lord shall return, and thou shalt welcome<br/>
Him, thou and all saints: nay, earth itself,<br/>
and all that dwell therein. Then occupy<br/>
till He come, and if, before that day dawn,<br/>
thou art called to rest, lie down to sleep<br/>
in hope of the blessed resurrection, and the<br/>
coming of the Lord with ten thousand of<br/>
his saints. Even so, Lord Jesus, come<br/>
quickly.—PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Obliging Disposition.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is several years since the following<br/>
capital story made its last circuit of the<br/>
papers, and we start it once more on its<br/>
travels. It will find some new read-<br/>
ers and many old ones who will enjoy it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is nothing like an obliging dis-<br/>
position, I thought to myself, one day<br/>
when traveling in a railway car from<br/>
Boston to Worcester, seeing a gentleman<br/>
put himself to considerable trouble to<br/>
land another gentleman, who had fallen<br/>
asleep at his destination.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Passengers for West Needham ?"<br/>
cried out the conductor—" the car stops<br/>
but one minute."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Hello !" exclaimed a young man in<br/>
spectacles, at the same time seizing an<br/>
old gentleman by the shoulder, who was<br/>
sleeping very soundly, "here's Capt. Hol-<br/>
mes fast asleep, and this is West Need-<br/>
ham, where he lives. Come, get up, Capt.<br/>
Holmes, here you are."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gentleman got upon his feet and<br/>
began to rub his eyes, but the young<br/>
man forced him along to the door of the<br/>
car, and gently landed him on the road-<br/>
side. Whiz went the steam and we be-<br/>
gan to fly again. The obliging young<br/>
man took his seat again, and said with a<br/>
good deal of satisfaction to somebody<br/>
near him—"Well, if it hadn't been for<br/>
me, Capt. Holmes would have missed his<br/>
home finely. But here he has left his<br/>
bundles :" and the young man picked up<br/>
a paper parcel and threw it out. "Well,<br/>
he said again, "if it hadn't been for me<br/>
Capt. Holmes would have missed his<br/>
bundles finely."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we stopped at the next station,<br/>
a lady began to rummage under the seat<br/>
where Capt. Holmes had been sitting,<br/>
and exclaimed in great alarm :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I can't find my bundle."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Was it done up in a piece of brown<br/>
paper?" I asked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes it was, to be sure," said the lady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Then," said I, "that young man yon-<br/>
der threw it out of the window at the<br/>
last stopping place."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This led to a scene between the oblig-<br/>
ing young man and the old lady, which<br/>
ended by the former taking the address<br/>
of the latter, and promising to return the<br/>
package in a few days provided he should<br/>
ever find it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well," said the obliging young man,<br/>
"catch me doing a good natured thing<br/>
again. What can I do for that poor wo-<br/>
man, if I cannot find her bundle ?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whiz went the steam, ding, ding, ding,<br/>
went the bell, the dust flew, the sparks<br/>
flew, and the cars flew, as they say, like<br/>
lightning, till we stopped again at the<br/>
next station, I forget the name of it now,<br/>
but it would be of no consequence if I<br/>
could remember it. An old gentleman<br/>
started up and began to poke under the<br/>
seat where Capt. Holmes had sat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What are you looking for ?" I in-<br/>
quired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Looking for ?" said the old gentle-<br/>
man, "why, I am looking for my bundle<br/>
of clothes."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Was it tied up in a yellow handker-<br/>
chief ?" I asked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, and nothing else," said the old<br/>
man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Good heavens," exclaimed the oblig-<br/>
ing young man, "I threw it out of the<br/>
car at Needham ; I thought it belonged<br/>
to Capt. Holmes."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Capt. Holmes !" exclaimed the old<br/>
fellow, with a look of despair, "who is<br/>
Capt. Holmes ? That bundle contained<br/>
all my clean clothes, that I was to wear<br/>
at my son's wedding to-morrow morning.<br/>
Dear me what can I do ?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing could be done but to give his<br/>
address to the obliging young man as be-<br/>
fore, and console himself with the pro-<br/>
mise that the bundle should be returned<br/>
to him, provided it was ever found. The<br/>
obliging young man was now in despair,<br/>
and made another solemn vow that he<br/>
would never attempt to be obliging again.<br/>
The next station was his landing-place,<br/>
and as he went toward the door of the<br/>
car, he saw a silver-headed cane, which<br/>
he took hold of and read the inscription<br/>
on it, "Moses Holmes, East Needham."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well," again exclaimed the obliging<br/>
young man, "if here isn't Capt. Holmes'<br/>
cane !"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes," said a gentleman, who got in<br/>
at the last station, "and the old man is<br/>
lame, too. He will miss his stick."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Do you know him ?" inquired the<br/>
obliging young man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Know him ? I should think so," re-<br/>
plied the gentleman ; "he is my uncle."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And does he live at East Needham ?"<br/>
asked the obliging young man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Of course he does. He never lived<br/>
anywhere else."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, if it don't beat everything,"<br/>
said the obliging young man, "and I put<br/>
him out at West Needham, a mile and a<br/>
half the other side of his home."—-N. Y.<br/>
Observer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
WISE PROVERBS.—The harder the wood<br/>
the higher the polish. One man cries,<br/>
"There's a well;" another quietly puts a<br/>
pump into it. Prayers and provender never<br/>
hindered any man's journey. Experience<br/>
and wisdom are two best fortune-tellers.<br/>
The covetous man makes a half-penny of<br/>
a farthing; and a liberal man makes a six-<br/>
pence of it. Vain glory is a flower which<br/>
never comes to fruit. If folly were pain,<br/>
we should have great crying out in every<br/>
house. Your looking-glass will tell you<br/>
what friends never will. The man that<br/>
speaks plain truth is a cleverer fellow than<br/>
he is generally taken for. The snail looks<br/>
around his house, and thinks it is the whole<br/>
world.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
FILLING UP.—England began the pres-<br/>
ent century with four acres of land for<br/>
every person within her borders. When<br/>
the century was half through, there were<br/>
but two acres per inhabitant; and now<br/>
they are upon a descending scale of frac-<br/>
tions between two acres and one acre to<br/>
each person. The estimate of the popula-<br/>
tion of England in the middle of the year<br/>
1866 gives 1.78 acre to each person. In<br/>
Scotland the tide of life rises more slowly,<br/>
and there are still six acres to every head<br/>
of population.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A physician once advised Sydney<br/>
Smith to “take a walk upon an empty<br/>
stomach.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Whose stomach?” said the wit?.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Nothing more is wanting to render<br/>
a man miserable, than that he should<br/>
fancy he is so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Mrs. Partington asks very indignant-<br/>
ly. If the bills before Congress are not<br/>
counterfeit, why there should be so much<br/>
difficulty in passing them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Why is a hen immortal? Because<br/>
her son never sets.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The custom of advertising is a cus-<br/>
tom that brings customers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A lady who edits a newspaper in one<br/>
of the Western States, says that the po-<br/>
pularity of her journal is due to the fact<br/>
that people are always expecting that she<br/>
will say something she ought not to.<br/>
“Two ears and but a single tongue<br/>
By nature’s law to man belong;<br/>
The lesson she would teach is clear,—<br/>
Repeat but half of what you hear.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“Thank God that I got my hat back<br/>
from this congregation!” said a disap-<br/>
pointed clergyman, turning it upside<br/>
down, when it was returned empty to<br/>
him, at the close of a collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Every man who is “diligent in busi-<br/>
ness,” is a sermon brimful of the energies<br/>
of life and truth, a witness to the com-<br/>
prehensiveness and adaptation of Christ’s<br/>
religion, a preacher of righteousness in<br/>
scenes where none can preach so effec-<br/>
tively or so well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-As those wines which flow from the<br/>
first treading of the grapes are sweeter<br/>
and better than those forced out by the<br/>
press, which gives them the roughness of<br/>
the husk and of the stone, so are those<br/>
doctrines best and sweetest that flow<br/>
from a gentle crush of the Scriptures,<br/>
and are not wrung into controversies and<br/>
common-places.—BACON.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A correspondent in the St. Louis<br/>
DEMOCRAT tells of a lady stepping into a<br/>
street car, in that city, a few days since,<br/>
and no vacant seat being visible, a gen-<br/>
tlemen vacated his, into which the lady<br/>
sat without acknowledging the compli-<br/>
ment. Of course the polite gentleman was<br/>
chagrined, and addressing the lady, said:<br/>
“What did you say, Miss?” “I didn’t<br/>
speak sir,” was the reply. “Oh,” said<br/>
the gentleman, “I beg your pardon, but<br/>
I thought I heard you say, ‘Thank you.’
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The South bridge (Mass.) Journal<br/>
says that last Sunday a good deacon of the<br/>
Orthodox persuasion, who lives on Leba-<br/>
non Hill in that town, drove into the vil-<br/>
lage with a load of potatoes, and stopped<br/>
in front of the Postoffice, which place he<br/>
tried to enter, but found the door locked.<br/>
Some one standing by remarked that the<br/>
Postoffice didn’t keep open on Sunday.<br/>
“Sunday!” said the deacon, with a look<br/>
of perfect astonishment, “I thought it<br/>
was Saturday; and here I’ve brought a<br/>
load of potatoes to sell.” Being assured<br/>
that it was Sunday, the deacon mounted<br/>
his wagon and started homeward, with<br/>
the puzzled expression of one who was<br/>
never before so mistaken in all his life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—An old lady walked into an office of<br/>
a Judge of Probate, in Massachusetts,<br/>
once upon a time, and asked,—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Are you the Judge of Re-probates?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I am the Judge of Probates.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Well, that’s it, I expect, quoth the<br/>
old lady. “You see my father died de-<br/>
tested, and he left several little infidels,<br/>
and I want to be their executioner.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While his mother lives, a man has<br/>
one friend on earth who will not desert<br/>
him when he is needy. Her affection<br/>
flows from a pure fountain, and ceases<br/>
only at the ocean of eternity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Physical freedom and the freedom of<br/>
the heart, must give woman grace and<br/>
beauty.—-Then, as she grows in strength,<br/>
she should receive the education of books<br/>
and of nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A distinguished physician says that<br/>
there is a marked difference in the heal-<br/>
thiness of houses according to their aspect<br/>
with regard to the sun; and those are<br/>
decidedly the healthiest, other things be-<br/>
ing equal, in which all the rooms are,<br/>
during some part of the day, fully ex-<br/>
posed to the diurnal light. Epidemics<br/>
are more likely to attack inhabitants on<br/>
the shady side of the street.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To kill cock roaches-—get a pair of<br/>
heavy boots, then catch your roaches,<br/>
put them into a barrel, and then get<br/>
in yourself and dance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To catch mice—-on going to bed<br/>
put crumbs in your mouth and lie with<br/>
it open, and when a mouse’s whiskers<br/>
tickle your throat—bite.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To prevent dogs going mad-—cut<br/>
their tails off just behind their ears.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A BILL was brought into the Irish<br/>
House of Commons, “To cause the<br/>
watchmen to sleep in the day time,<br/>
in order that they might be watchful<br/>
at night.” Whereupon Lord Nugent<br/>
begged to be included in the bill, “as<br/>
the gout left him no sleep, day or<br/>
night.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-16_4_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.<br/>
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok July 31st 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
