---
linkTitle: 'July 12nd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 12nd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 12nd'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 50
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, July 12th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 27.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Karens.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mythology and Astronomy among the<br/>
Karens. In a former number, we alluded<br/>
to the traditional views, entertained by<br/>
the Karens, of the spirit world and of<br/>
guardian spirits, as mentioned by the Rev.<br/>
Dr. Mason in his recent publication.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the opinion of these people, the Di-<br/>
vine being, or the God of the whole human<br/>
race, resides at the foot of the sun, at the<br/>
foot of the moon ; and people who are born<br/>
are sent by God, and people who die are<br/>
called back by God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}1st. By the mouth of a tiger.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}2nd. By some kind of disease.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}3rd. By drowning.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}4th. By the hand of man.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}5th. By a fall.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}6th. By a blow.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}7th. By old age.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The Karens assert that all men will die<br/>
by one, or other, of seven things namely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They apparently omit from the category,<br/>
death by poison, death from fire and fire-<br/>
arms, and death from a temporary fit of<br/>
insanity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Physical and moral evils are supposed<br/>
to be the work of spirits, as insanity, epi-<br/>
lepsy, lechery, wrath, dreams, diseases and<br/>
languor. “If our mad La comes we be-<br/>
come insane. If our epileptic La comes,<br/>
we are seized with epilepsy. If our lecher-<br/>
ous La comes, we are lost to shame. If our<br/>
wrathful La comes, we are filled with an-<br/>
ger and malice and commit murder. If<br/>
the shower of dreams comes, we are over-<br/>
whelmed with dreams. If the bearer of<br/>
sickness comes, we are prostrated by dis-<br/>
ease. If languor comes, we feel unable to<br/>
do anything.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of departed spirits, Dr. Mason writes.<br/>
The spirits of the dead resolve themselves<br/>
into two great classes. Those who are not<br/>
permitted to go to Hades, corresponding<br/>
very nearly to the European notions of<br/>
ghosts ; and the spirits of the ancestors of<br/>
the Karens, who on going to Hades were<br/>
awarded, on account of their good deeds,<br/>
a place in the heavenly world, where they<br/>
exercise a kind of watch care over their<br/>
descendants on earth. The offerings and<br/>
prayers made to these beings seem to corres-<br/>
pond to the Chinese worship of ancestors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of ghosts, or the unburied dead, re-<br/>
marks Dr. Mason,—-“The Greeks and Ro-<br/>
mans believed that those who were de-<br/>
prived of funeral rites wandered about and<br/>
were not allowed to enter Hades. So it is<br/>
no marvel to find this now to be the popu-<br/>
lar faith in Europe. But it is not a little<br/>
remarkable to find precisely the same rites<br/>
prevailing among the Karens.” A ghost<br/>
can cough and sneeze and he can pommel<br/>
a man, and may be driven away by the<br/>
smell of burning sticklac. The sight of a<br/>
ghost may be obtained by the possession<br/>
of a skull. At night it becomes a ghost<br/>
and is fashioned after the figure of a man.<br/>
In the day time it is a mere piece of dry<br/>
bone. Ghosts can be bred from skull bones<br/>
and at night may be made exceedingly mis-<br/>
chievous. None but very wicked men and<br/>
murderers have any fellowship with ghosts.<br/>
When unusual noises are heard at night in<br/>
houses, in Church yards, in fields or in<br/>
jungles, they are attributed to ghosts. Ma-<br/>
ny intelligent people in civilized countries<br/>
believe in ghosts, but they have never seen<br/>
one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The idea of seeing such apparitions is<br/>
all imaginary and may be ascribed to fear.<br/>
A calm self possessed, courageous man<br/>
never sees or believes in such fancies. He<br/>
will sleep soundly in a wood, in a church-<br/>
yard, on the top of a coffin, and surround-<br/>
ed by skulls, as many medical students<br/>
have been, and they are as free from ghosts<br/>
in the night, as they are in the day time.<br/>
Whoever sees any apparition by day? None,<br/>
but darkness and fear will make nervous<br/>
people see almost anything they can fancy,<br/>
at night and especially if they happen to<br/>
be dyspeptic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dogs and monkies have ghosts it is said,<br/>
and the wood pecker is a bird of ill omen.<br/>
This pretty little bird is considered to be<br/>
a harbinger of misfortune. The Karens<br/>
pray it to be gone when it is seen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The spirits of ancestors," according to<br/>
the ideas of those interesting people who<br/>
have performed meritorious acts go to a<br/>
place of happiness above which seems to<br/>
correspond to the Deva heavens of the Bud-<br/>
dhists. The existence of God, the original<br/>
creator of all things is quite ignored, and<br/>
he appears to have no place in it. It has<br/>
its rulers and its subjects and one of the<br/>
names applied to them is the Burmese de-<br/>
signation, of Indra, the king of Deva hea-<br/>
vens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Karens offer up prayers to the spi-<br/>
rits of their ancestors, to help them to<br/>
have large crops and good paddy, and to<br/>
aid them, in various other ways, to make<br/>
their labors light. With these prayers an<br/>
offering is made of either a hog or a cock<br/>
and a pot of shamshoo. After the cere-<br/>
monies are concluded, the offerings are<br/>
taken by the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Witches and wizards come next in order<br/>
observes, Dr. Mason, in Karen Mythology ;<br/>
Witches and wizards are not persons, who<br/>
have entered into an understanding with<br/>
Satan, to be a fellow worker, with him, as<br/>
European believers in witchcraft suppose.<br/>
The Karens imagine a witch to be either<br/>
a man, or a woman, who is possessed of a<br/>
demon. The seat of the demon, is the<br/>
stomach and it has the power of shrivel-<br/>
ling up to the size of a pea, and of lodging<br/>
under the finger nail. A witch is said to<br/>
have extraordinary powers of locomotion.<br/>
It can change the colour of its own skin,<br/>
and can even command a dove to go and<br/>
fetch fragrant oil from the house of a<br/>
grandmother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Goddess of the Harvest is in charac-<br/>
ter an old woman, who is called grand-<br/>
mother, Bio yau, who presides over the<br/>
paddy. She seems, says our Author, from<br/>
the account given of her first appearance,<br/>
to have been originally a serpent, but is<br/>
now a widow. Of course this personage is<br/>
honored with offerings which are made in<br/>
a little house built for her in the midst of<br/>
the paddy field. She has two strings to<br/>
her bow, with which she binds all intru-<br/>
ders. This goddess is supplicated to make<br/>
the harvest of each field as a high as a<br/>
mountain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then they have the Goddess of Fortune,<br/>
who is a divine female, who spends all her<br/>
time in blessing and cursing. She dwells<br/>
on Than-thie, the highest mountain known<br/>
in Burmah. Everything takes place accor-<br/>
ding to her imprecations. If she curses<br/>
the grass it dies, if she blesses the trees<br/>
they live. The name given to this lady is<br/>
Sa la. When the apes hear her cry, they<br/>
take up the sound and repeat it from<br/>
mountain to mountain and from tree to<br/>
tree.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Concerning thunder and lightning these<br/>
people believe, that a thunder bolt is a liv-<br/>
ing being. When it utters its voice, it<br/>
thunders, when it flaps its wings lightning<br/>
is produced in one gorgeous picture of<br/>
light.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Regarding the Rainbow, opinion appears<br/>
to be divided. Some call it a spirit or a<br/>
demon, and others call it a woman, who<br/>
died in child birth. When it appears in<br/>
the sky it is thirsty and has come to drink.<br/>
One of the prettiest objects in nature is<br/>
thus supposed to be capable of drinking<br/>
water and of devouring human beings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have endeavored to give our readers<br/>
a very faint outline of quite a number of<br/>
interesting topics, treated of in the pam-<br/>
phlet before us. There are several other<br/>
subjects of equal interest, mentioned in<br/>
the work, as maids, dryads and oreades,<br/>
brownies, fetiscism, magic, giants, omens,<br/>
sooth saying, necromancers, fowls' bones<br/>
and Astronomy, under which a notice is<br/>
given of Cosmology, the constellations,<br/>
comets, planets, shooting stars, meteors<br/>
and the division of the year, which we<br/>
must reserve for a future occasion.—RAN-<br/>
GOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Cholera-—Its Symptoms
and Remedies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A VALUABLE ARTICLE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We displace our usual miscellany on<br/>
this page to give room for the best arti-<br/>
cle we have yet found on this subject. It<br/>
is from the pen of Rev. Dr. Hamlin the<br/>
distinguished missionary at Contantiso-<br/>
ple. His views and recipes are approv-<br/>
ed by the best authorities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cholera which has just left us af-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ter committing fearful ravages, is making<br/>
its way into Europe, and will probably<br/>
cross the Atlantic before another sum-<br/>
mer has passed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having been providentially compelled<br/>
to have a good degree of practical ac-<br/>
quaintance with it, and to see it in all its<br/>
forms and stages during each of its inva-<br/>
sions of Constantinople, I wish to make<br/>
to my friends in Maine some suggestions<br/>
which may relieve anxiety or be of prac-<br/>
tical use.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st. On the approach of the cholera,<br/>
every family should be prepared to treat<br/>
it without waiting for a physician. It<br/>
does its work so expeditiously, that while<br/>
you are waiting for the doctor it is done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2nd. If you prepare for it, it will not<br/>
come. I think there is no disease which<br/>
may be avoided with so much certainty<br/>
as the cholera. But providential circum-<br/>
stances, or the thoughtless indiscretion of<br/>
some member of a household may invite<br/>
the attack, and the challenge will never<br/>
be refused. It will probably be made in<br/>
the night, your physician has been called<br/>
in another direction, and you must treat<br/>
the case yourself or it will be fatal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3rd. CAUSE OF ATTACK. I have per-<br/>
sonally investigated at least a hundred<br/>
cases and not less than three fourths<br/>
could be traced directly to improper diet,<br/>
or to intoxicating drinks, or both united.<br/>
Of the remainder, suppressed perspira-<br/>
tion would comprise a large number. A<br/>
strong, healthy, temperate laboring man<br/>
had a severe attack of cholers, and after<br/>
the danger had passed I was curious to<br/>
ascertain the cause. He had been cau-<br/>
tious and prudent in his diet. He used<br/>
nothing intoxicating. His residence was<br/>
in a good locality. But after some hours<br/>
of hard labor and very profuse perspira-<br/>
tion, he had lain down to take his cus-<br/>
tomary nap right against an open window<br/>
through which a very refreshing breeze<br/>
was blowing. Another cause is drinking<br/>
largely of cold water when hot and thirs-<br/>
ty. Great fatigue, great anxiety, fright,<br/>
fear, all figure among inciting causes. If<br/>
one can avoid all these he is as safe from<br/>
the cholera as from being swept away by<br/>
a comet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4th. SYMPTOMS OF AN ATTACK. While<br/>
cholera is prevalent in a place almost eve-<br/>
ry one experiences more or less distur-<br/>
bances of digestion. It is doubtless in<br/>
part imaginary. Every one notices the<br/>
slightest variation of feeling, and this<br/>
gives an importance to mere trifles. There<br/>
is often a slight nausea, or transient pains,<br/>
or rumbling sounds when no attack fol-<br/>
lows. No one is entirely free from these.<br/>
But when diarrhea commences, though<br/>
painless and slight, it is really the skir-<br/>
mishing party of the advancing column.<br/>
It will have at first no single characteris-<br/>
tic of Asiatic Cholera. But do not be<br/>
deceived. It is the cholera nevertheless.<br/>
Wait a little, give it time to get hold, say<br/>
to yourself “I feel perfectly well, it will<br/>
soon pass off,” and in a short time you will<br/>
repent of your folly in vain. I have seen<br/>
many a one commit suicide in this way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sometimes, though rarely, the attack<br/>
commences with vomiting. But in what-<br/>
ever way it commences it is sure to hold<br/>
on. In a very few hours the patient may<br/>
sink into the collapse. The hands and<br/>
feet become cold and purplish, the coun-<br/>
tenance at first nervous anxious, becomes<br/>
gloomy and apathetic, although a mental<br/>
restlessness and raging thirst torment the<br/>
sufferer while the powers of life are ebb-<br/>
ing. The intellect remains clear, but<br/>
all the social and moral feelings seem<br/>
wonderfully to collapse with the physi-<br/>
cal powers. The patient knows he is to<br/>
die, but cares not a snap about it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In some cases, though rarely, the diar-<br/>
rhea continues for a day or two, and the<br/>
foolish person keeps about then suddenly<br/>
sinks, sends for a physician, and before<br/>
he arrives “dies as the fool dieth.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
COURSE OF TREATMENT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st. FOR STOPPING THE INCIPIENT<br/>
DIARRHEA. The mixture which I used<br/>
in 1848 with great success, and again in<br/>
1855, has during this epidemic been used<br/>
by thousands, and although the attacks<br/>
have been more sudden and violent, it<br/>
has fully established its reputation for<br/>
efficiency and perfect safety. It consists<br/>
of equal parts by measure of 1. Laud-<br/>
anum and Spirits of Camphor. 2. Tinc-<br/>
ture of Rhubarb. 30 drops for an adult<br/>
on a lump of sugar, will often check the<br/>
diarrhoea. But to prevent its return, care<br/>
should be taken to continue the medicine<br/>
every four hours in diminishing doses 25,<br/>
20, 15, 10, 9, when careful diet is all that<br/>
will be needed. If the first does not stay<br/>
the diarrhea, continue to give in increas-<br/>
ing doses 35, 40, 60, at every movement<br/>
of the bowels. Large doses will produce<br/>
no injury while the diarrhea lasts. When<br/>
that is checked then is the time for cau-<br/>
tion. I have never seen a case of diar-<br/>
rhea, taken in season, which was not<br/>
thus controlled, but some cases of ad-<br/>
vanced diarrhea, and especially of re-<br/>
lapse paid no heed to it whatever. As<br/>
soon as this becomes apparent, I have<br/>
always resorted to this course. Prepare<br/>
a tea-cup of starch boiled as for use in<br/>
starching linen, and stir into it a full tea-<br/>
spoonful of laudanum for an injection.<br/>
Give one third at each movement of the<br/>
bowels. In one desperate case abandon-<br/>
ed as hopeless by a physician, I could<br/>
not stop the diarrhoea until the seventh<br/>
injection, which contained nearly a tea-<br/>
spoonful of laudanum. The patient re-<br/>
covered and is in perfect health. At the<br/>
same time I use prepared chalk in 10<br/>
grain doses with a few drops of lauda-<br/>
num and camphor to each. But what-<br/>
ever course is pursued it must be follow-<br/>
ed, and the diarrhea controlled or the<br/>
patient is lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2nd. MUSTARD POULTICES. These<br/>
should be applied to the pit of the sto-<br/>
mach, and kept on till the surface is well<br/>
reddened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3rd. The patient, however well he<br/>
may feel, should rigidly observe perfect<br/>
rest. To lie quietly on the back is one<br/>
half the battle. In that position the ene-<br/>
my flies over you, but the moment you<br/>
rise you are hit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the attack comes in the form of<br/>
diarrhoea, these directions enable every<br/>
one to meet it successfully.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4th. But when the attack is more vio-<br/>
lent, and there is vomiting, or vomiting<br/>
and purging, perhaps also cramps and<br/>
colic pains, the following mixture is far<br/>
more effective and should always be resor-<br/>
ted to. The missionaries Messrs. Long,<br/>
Trowbridge and Washburn, have used<br/>
it in very many cases and with wonder-<br/>
ful success. It consists of equal parts of<br/>
Laudanum, Tincture of Capsicum, Tinc-<br/>
ture of Ginger and Tincture of Carda-<br/>
mom seeds. Dose, 30 to 40 drops, or<br/>
half a teaspoonful in a little water, and<br/>
to be increased according to the urgency<br/>
of the case. In case the first dose should<br/>
be ejected, the second, which should stand<br/>
ready, should be given immediately af-<br/>
ter the spasm of vomiting has ceased.<br/>
During this late cholera siege no one of<br/>
us failed of controlling the vomiting and<br/>
also the purging by, at most, the third<br/>
dose. We have, however, invariably<br/>
made use of large mustard poultices of<br/>
strong pure mustard, applied to the sto-<br/>
mach, bowels, calves of the legs, feet etc.,<br/>
as the case seemed to require.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COLLAPSE. This is simply a more ad-<br/>
vanced stage of the disease. It indicates<br/>
the gradual failing of all the powers of<br/>
life. It is difficult to say when a case<br/>
has become hopeless. At a certain point<br/>
the body of the patient begins to emit a<br/>
peculiar odor which I call the death odor,<br/>
for when that has become decided and<br/>
unmistakable, I have never known the pa-<br/>
tient to recover. I have repeatedly work-<br/>
ed upon such cases for hours with no<br/>
permanent result. But the blue color,<br/>
the cold extremities, the deeply sunken<br/>
eye, the vanishing pulse are no signs that<br/>
the case is hopeless. Scores of such ca-<br/>
ses in the recent epidemic have recover-<br/>
ed. In addition to the second mixture,<br/>
brandy (a tablespoonful every half hour,)<br/>
bottles of hot water surrounding the pa-<br/>
tient, especially the extremities, sinapi-<br/>
sms and friction will often in an hour or<br/>
two work wonders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIRST. In these and in all advanced<br/>
cases thirst creates intense suffering. The<br/>
sufferer craves water and as sure as he<br/>
gratifies the craving the worst symptoms<br/>
return, and he falls a victim to the tran-<br/>
sient gratification. The only safe way is<br/>
to have a faithful friend or attendant who<br/>
will not heed his entreaties. The suffer-<br/>
ing may be, however, safely alleviated<br/>
and rendered endurable. Frequent garg-<br/>
ling the throat and washing out the mouth<br/>
will bring some relief. A spoonful of<br/>
gum arabic water, or of chamomile tea<br/>
may frequently be given to wet the<br/>
throat. "Lydenham's White Decoction"<br/>
may also be given both as a beverage and<br/>
nourishment in small quantities frequent-<br/>
ly. In a day or two the suffering from<br/>
thirst will cease. In a large majority it<br/>
has not been intense for more than 24<br/>
hours.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DIET. Rice water, arrowroot, Lyden-<br/>
ham's White Decoction, crust water,<br/>
Chamomile tea, are the best article for a<br/>
day or two after the attack is controlled.<br/>
Chamomile is very valuable in restoring<br/>
the tone of the stomach.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE TYPHOID FEVER. A typhoid state<br/>
for a few days will follow all severe ca-<br/>
ses; there is nothing alarming in this. It<br/>
has very rarely proved fatal. Patience<br/>
and careful nursing will bring it all right.<br/>
The greatest danger is from drinking too<br/>
freely. When the patient seemed to be<br/>
sinking, a little brandy and water or ar-<br/>
rowroot and brandy have revived him. In<br/>
this terrible visitation of the cholera, we<br/>
have considered ourselves perfectly arm-<br/>
ed and equipped, with a hand bag con-<br/>
taining mixture No. 1, mixture No. 2,<br/>
(for vomiting, etc.,) a few pounds of<br/>
pounded mustard, a bottle of brandy and<br/>
a paper of Gum Arabic.<br/>
I lay no claim to originality in recom-<br/>
mending this course of treatment. I have<br/>
adopted it from suggestions of able and<br/>
experienced physicians. Having been the<br/>
only doctor of many poor families living<br/>
near me, I have tried various remedies<br/>
recommended by physicians, but I have<br/>
found none to be at all compared with<br/>
the above. During the recent cholera I<br/>
cannot find that any treatment has been<br/>
so successful as this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONTAGION. The idea of contagion<br/>
should be abandoned. All the missiona-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ries who have been most with the most<br/>
malignant cases day after, are fully con-<br/>
vinced of the non-contagiousness of the<br/>
cholera. The incipient attacks which all<br/>
have suffered from are to be attributed<br/>
to great fatigue, making the constitutions<br/>
liable to an attack.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In another letter I will give you a de-<br/>
scription of the cholera as we saw it, and<br/>
of some individual cases.—-THE LORIAN<br/>
COUNTY NEWS,
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chinese Coal.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A writer in the new number of the<br/>
QUARTERLY REVIEW states that, having<br/>
examined coal, including lignite, from<br/>
nearly every part of the world, he has<br/>
seen no steam-coal superior to that from<br/>
the neighbourhood of Pekin, where it is<br/>
reported that a magnificent coalfield<br/>
exists not less than three hundred miles<br/>
in extent. This report is founded on a<br/>
personal communication from a geologist<br/>
who has spent three years in the explor-<br/>
ation of that coalfield. Chinese coal in<br/>
1862 was tried in some of Her Majesty's<br/>
ships under the command of Admiral Sir<br/>
James Hope. The day will arrive when<br/>
the coal-mines of China will prove a<br/>
source of wealth and power, and may<br/>
possibly determine who shall exercise<br/>
naval predominance in the East. These<br/>
mines, in order to their successful devel-<br/>
opment, must be worked under the di-<br/>
rection of colliery engineers of experience<br/>
and skill, and will require the introduc-<br/>
tion of steam winding and pumping ma-<br/>
chinery. But the Chinese authorities<br/>
dread all such foreign innovations, espe-<br/>
cially as they must for a considerable<br/>
period be under the supervision of des-<br/>
pised barbarians. Perhaps they may be<br/>
disturbed by a vision of what has befallen<br/>
India. If, unhappily, we should again<br/>
be involved in war with the Celestials,<br/>
and again be victorious, it might be well<br/>
to stipulate for a concession of a portion,<br/>
at least, of this great coal-field.—-FRIEND<br/>
OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bombay.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—There is a controversy in Bombay<br/>
as to whether the crisis there is owing to<br/>
the fall in cotton, or to the loss of capital<br/>
due to share speculation. Surely to both.<br/>
A collapse of fictitious shares may not be<br/>
a loss of capital to the whole community,<br/>
though the expenditure on coolies, engi-<br/>
neers and establishments reduces the<br/>
general fund somewhat. But the trans-<br/>
fer of capital from the victims of specul-<br/>
ation to its promoters, or from one pro-<br/>
moter to another, and the transfer of<br/>
much of that capital out of the Island to<br/>
ryots who sell cotton at a shilling and<br/>
merchants who buy estates at home, is a<br/>
very serious loss of capital to a large<br/>
number of individuals.—-F. or INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-THE CHOLERA CONFERENCE.—-At<br/>
Constantinople has come to the conclu-<br/>
sion that cholera has never been generat-<br/>
ed either in the Hedjaz of Arabia or any<br/>
other country but in the Indian penin-<br/>
sula, where the disease is constant and<br/>
endemic. Its importation into the Holy<br/>
Cities is exclusively due to the Indian<br/>
pilgrims arriving in sailing ships; in the<br/>
steamers, well ventilated and clean, not<br/>
an instance of the epidemic had occurred.<br/>
The Conference has therefore decided to<br/>
recommend a rigorous quarantine upon<br/>
all vessels arriving from India at the ports<br/>
of the Red Sea and Persian Gulf.—<br/>
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
President and Congress.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The merits of the actual questions be-<br/>
tween the President and his Congress are<br/>
of less importance than the fact of colli-<br/>
sion; but, on the whole, Congress has the<br/>
best of it. It is always easy to suggest<br/>
reasons for not doing things, and the<br/>
President may be right upon points; but<br/>
the drift of his action is to annul the de-<br/>
cision given on the battle-field, to restore<br/>
the South to its old supremacy, and to<br/>
abandon the negro. The country is right<br/>
in not wishing those things, and Congress<br/>
in resisting the President's drift expres-<br/>
ses a reasonable national resolve. Of<br/>
course, it often expresses it in a foolish<br/>
way. Nothing can be in worse taste than<br/>
speeches like Mr. Wade's, or resolutions<br/>
like Mr. Stevens'; but the general line of<br/>
Congress is sound, and that of Mr. John-<br/>
son unsound, and it is upon general con-<br/>
siderations that nations are sure to act.<br/>
Lord Palmerston often said very foolish<br/>
things about foreign policy, but his gen-<br/>
eral line was to protect English interests,<br/>
to succeed in a struggle if the struggle<br/>
began, and so the English people under-<br/>
stood it; and when in the Crimean war<br/>
they wanted a man who would win, they<br/>
elected Lord Palmerston to rule them.—-<br/>
ECONOMIST.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Negro insurrections have occurred on<br/>
several large estates in Cuba, and there is<br/>
much alarm there.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
July 12th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Evil doings in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are continually pained with<br/>
both verbal and written reports of evil<br/>
doing and political corruption from<br/>
many quarters, not only among the<br/>
common people, but more so among<br/>
officers of government, princes, nobles<br/>
and lords, lawyers and judges, and<br/>
farmers of the various sources of re-<br/>
venue. We have lately revealed in<br/>
our Siamese paper some startling<br/>
cases of corruption which have met<br/>
the eyes of his Majesty, and produced<br/>
great quaking among those who are<br/>
particularly concerned. We have now<br/>
before us another report of a deeper<br/>
dye than usual, which would seem to<br/>
be but too true. If in the main true,<br/>
it involves very seriously the character<br/>
of many officials who have clubbed to-<br/>
gether to assist each other in defraud-<br/>
ing the royal treasury of money that<br/>
should be paid into it in lieu of the<br/>
personal services of men that had been<br/>
assessed to work for the king. The<br/>
report declares that this club have<br/>
such power that scarcely no one dares<br/>
to offer any complaint against it;<br/>
that when one ventured to do so he was<br/>
quickly seized and imprisoned; that<br/>
he then persuaded his wife to carry a<br/>
complaint of the matter up to the<br/>
king; that a royal command was giv-<br/>
en to have it examined; being<br/>
tried it was found true, but that no<br/>
report of the result had been made to<br/>
the king, and that consequently the<br/>
person falsely imprisoned is still a pris-<br/>
oner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Being in some doubt of the truth-<br/>
fulness of these charges in their ap-<br/>
plication to the persons named in the<br/>
report, we have refrained from publish-<br/>
ing the matter in our Siamese paper.<br/>
But we cannot doubt that a horrible<br/>
amount of such rascality is continual-<br/>
ly being practiced in the city and<br/>
country. Reports of such evil doing<br/>
come to us so frequently that we are<br/>
sometimes tempted to think that "all"<br/>
the foundations" of the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment "are out of course," and that<br/>
Siam is sinking rapidly into a colapse<br/>
of political corruption. And we can<br/>
scarcely divest ourselves of the fear<br/>
that this will soon be found but too<br/>
true. Still it should be taken into ac-<br/>
count that our circumstances as edit-<br/>
ors are such, that we would of course<br/>
hear much more of such evil doing<br/>
than before our papers commenced<br/>
their career, even were it a patent fact<br/>
that the Siamese government is becom-<br/>
ing stronger and purer. Before we<br/>
opened this new mode for the subjects<br/>
of Siam to make known their com-<br/>
plaints, they were shut up to one old<br/>
royal road which exposed them to the<br/>
gaze of all the royal court, and to the<br/>
cruel vindictiveness of the parties a-<br/>
gainst whom they made complaint.<br/>
Very few besides the rich and power-<br/>
ful dared to engage in so hazardous<br/>
an undertaking. Even the boasted<br/>
high way passing directly to the<br/>
throne, is thus equally dangerous to<br/>
the poorer classes, and hence but here<br/>
and there one among the thousands<br/>
that feel deeply aggrieved by their op-<br/>
pressors can summon the daring to go<br/>
to the king with his complaints. But<br/>
now since they understand that the<br/>
king does not forbid complaints of evil<br/>
doings, which have not already been en-<br/>
tered in some legal tribunal, to be<br/>
published in our papers, they come<br/>
and lay them before us, begging that<br/>
we will do them the favor to insert<br/>
them in the Siamese Recorder. We<br/>
feel encouraged to go on with this<br/>
work, by continually receiving the<br/>
thanks of Siamese officials as well as<br/>
of other classes for our free and<br/>
truthful exposures of injustice and<br/>
oppression.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king himself is doubtless of-<br/>
ten much annoyed by the frequency<br/>
of these reports in our papers, and<br/>
sometimes inclined for this reason to<br/>
restrict his subjects to the old ways of<br/>
seeking justice. Yet we have much<br/>
evidence that he has too much<br/>
good sense, and too much regard for<br/>
the oppressed among his subjects to<br/>
oppose seriously the new mode. Scarce-<br/>
ly a Siamese Recorder is issued but he<br/>
finds himself pleased to send officials<br/>
to examine into some evil doing which<br/>
the paper has disclosed to him. We<br/>
learn that our last issue brought out a<br/>
command from the throne sending a<br/>
deputation over to Bangplassoi to look<br/>
into a foul matter implicating the old<br/>
governor there. His Majesty cannot<br/>
but see that it is usually as much as<br/>
one's life is worth to carry a complaint<br/>
against oppressors up to the throne.<br/>
Such is the terrible power of vindictive-<br/>
ness among the Siamese that it is a<br/>
thing next to impossible to persuade,<br/>
even a hired servant, to report any evil<br/>
against his fellow if that evil does not<br/>
particularly effect himself; and even<br/>
if it do, he will often prefer to suffer<br/>
long in silence rather than render him-<br/>
self liable to the vengeance which he<br/>
has too good reason to fear from the<br/>
offender. If he be a Laos, he will<br/>
stand in terrible dread of the power of<br/>
witchcraft by which he fancies his ene-<br/>
my will put the devil in him to work<br/>
all manner of horrid diseases in his<br/>
own body.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It cannot but be admitted by all<br/>
who are familiar wit[?] the manners and<br/>
customs of Siam, that Siamese officials<br/>
and revenue monopolists are most<br/>
powerfully tempted to practice what<br/>
Europeans denominate bribery and<br/>
corruption. The salaries of all officials<br/>
are so miserably small, that they can-<br/>
not obtain the half of a decent support<br/>
by them. The king knows it is full<br/>
as well as they themselves, and allows<br/>
them to make up the deficit pretty<br/>
much as each one's selfishness may<br/>
dictate. In a certain sense they are<br/>
necessitated to do so, and there is no<br/>
human power that can shut this flood<br/>
gate of moral and political evil so long<br/>
as the present system of inadequate<br/>
salaries is in vogue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We fervently hope that His Majes-<br/>
ty the king will with all possible speed<br/>
effect a radical change in this most<br/>
vital part of his government, for no<br/>
hope can reasonably be cherished for<br/>
the future prosperity of Siam, with-<br/>
out it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As regard the farmers of the public<br/>
revenues, they seem to be allowed to<br/>
squeeze and crush all within the sphere<br/>
of their calling so long as there is any<br/>
hope of making the business pay the<br/>
king well and give a splendid profit to<br/>
the farmer. It was only ten days since<br/>
when one of the chief monopolists<br/>
came to us for the purpose of prevail-<br/>
ing on us to give him the name of the<br/>
person who published in our last issue<br/>
an account of his treatment of the<br/>
people dealing in the article of his<br/>
farm. He brought all the influence<br/>
he could to induce us to comply with<br/>
his request. We would not yield one<br/>
iota to him, but said that our columns<br/>
were open for him to defend himself free-<br/>
ly without money and without price.<br/>
His reply was, that he had no desire to<br/>
do this, as he was not afraid of any con-<br/>
demnation from government, because<br/>
there was nothing reported of his do-<br/>
ings that was not allowed by the cus-<br/>
toms of Siam. Why then, said we, do<br/>
you wish us to give up the name of<br/>
the writer of the article? He evaded<br/>
the answer: but we knew well enough<br/>
what it should have been. We could<br/>
not think of placing the author in the<br/>
hands of a man of his power, nor afford<br/>
to bring sudden ruin upon our good<br/>
work of making public records of all<br/>
the abominations that come indubitably<br/>
before us. For who would dare to<br/>
report evil doing to us if we should<br/>
thus reveal their names? To finish<br/>
the matter, we said to the farmer that<br/>
we ourselves would assume all the<br/>
responsibility of making that report.<br/>
Whereupon he acknowledged that he<br/>
was foiled, and took leave of us.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
U. S. Consulate.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American Consulate in Bang-<br/>
kok has from the beginning of her ap-<br/>
pearance here, ten years ago, been<br/>
wandering up town and down town,<br/>
at first on the west side of the river,<br/>
and then on the east side, seeking for<br/>
some permanent abode, and finding<br/>
none. She has changed her location<br/>
no less than ten times in as many<br/>
years. She was first situated on the<br/>
right bank of the river nearly opposite<br/>
the royal palace, and dwelt there in a<br/>
brick house more than a year. 2nd.<br/>
Not liking a city life, she moved<br/>
down the river on the same side four<br/>
miles in 1857, where she enjoyed the<br/>
country, which was then quite in the<br/>
woods. 3rd. Having remained there<br/>
in a good brick house about the same<br/>
number of months, she crossed the riv-<br/>
er in January 1857 and occupied a<br/>
brick mansion nearly opposite, in a<br/>
regular country orchard of mango-<br/>
steens, rambootans, pomeloes, guavers,<br/>
cocoanuts, betel, &c. 4th. Early in<br/>
the year 1860 she pulled up stakes<br/>
and rowed up the river two miles, and<br/>
took up her abode in a small bamboo<br/>
house. 5th. In January 1861, be-<br/>
coming tired of her crampt condition,<br/>
she moved back to the country man-<br/>
sion again in the orchard and remain-<br/>
ed there until Feb. 1862. 6th. She<br/>
then went up the river a mile and<br/>
a half on the same side and took up<br/>
lodgings a few months in a bamboo<br/>
tavern. 7th. Finding this situation<br/>
quite unseemly she moved down the<br/>
river again a mile into a five brick<br/>
house on the left bank belonging<br/>
to Messrs. Pickenpack Thies & Co.<br/>
Here she remained until sometime in<br/>
the forepart of the year 1864. 8th.<br/>
She then left that fine location, and<br/>
moved up the river about a mile, and<br/>
occupied a small wooden building<br/>
which had been erected expressly for<br/>
her temporary abode. 9th. From<br/>
this place she next went, in Sept.<br/>
1865, and tried, for two or three<br/>
months, rooms which she hired in an<br/>
old uncouth brick building belong-<br/>
ing to the Siamese government. 10th.<br/>
Her final move was in April last, when<br/>
she went back again to the brick<br/>
house belonging to Messrs. Picken-<br/>
pack Thies & Co., where she now<br/>
feels that she has found a settled<br/>
home every way worthy of the nation<br/>
which she represents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During these ten years of her wan-<br/>
dering and pilgrimage she has had no<br/>
less than six different consuls and vice-<br/>
consuls to direct her movements and<br/>
to employ her power in the name of<br/>
the government whose banner she<br/>
unfurls. Her instability in regard to<br/>
a location has thus far been not very<br/>
unlike that of the children of Israel<br/>
in the wilderness. We hope the paral-<br/>
lel will hold good even to the pos-<br/>
session of a Canaan of rest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why, it may be asked, has she in<br/>
this regard been so unlike the stable<br/>
government which sent her hither?<br/>
To this it may be replied that the<br/>
American Consulate for Siam has, till<br/>
quite recently, been designed by her<br/>
government more for a pioneer than<br/>
for a settler, and more as a probationer<br/>
than as a communicant of the full<br/>
blessings of a Consulate; and hence<br/>
her government, foolishly as we think,<br/>
left their pioneer and probationer to<br/>
support herself as best she could by<br/>
simply the fees that she might lawful-<br/>
ly take for the business she might be<br/>
called to perform. The consequence<br/>
has been, that she could not live with-<br/>
out the pecuniary aid of some other<br/>
calling; and hence has gone all about<br/>
the city to find where she could get<br/>
the best livelihood—now connected<br/>
with a Prot. missionary—now with a<br/>
machinist—now with a merchant—now<br/>
with a shipwright—and next with a<br/>
ship-chandler. It is some apology<br/>
for her government that she did not<br/>
by any means contemplate to have<br/>
her live such a parasitic life for half<br/>
the time she has. But the nation be-<br/>
came involved in a tremendous civil<br/>
war, which so absorbed her thoughts<br/>
and energies as to necessitate the ap-<br/>
parent neglect, not only of her repre-<br/>
sentatives in Siam, but also of most of<br/>
her consuls in this Eastern world. And<br/>
now since she has gloriously subdued<br/>
the rebellion, and rid herself of the<br/>
unutterable burden of slavery, and is<br/>
feeling more than one hundred per<br/>
cent richer and stronger than she did<br/>
before the war, she is determined to<br/>
abandon the parasitic plan of a Consu-<br/>
late and nourish all her representatives<br/>
directly and fully from home, and thus<br/>
and in all other desirable ways clothe<br/>
them with due honor and power.<br/>
This plan necessitates the settling of<br/>
the Consulate in some stable and digni-<br/>
fied position. Such a position the pre-<br/>
sent incumbent J. M. Hood Esqr.<br/>
hopes he has found in his present<br/>
location.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We took a careful view of the place<br/>
on the 4th inst. at that pleasant cele-<br/>
bration of our country’s birth-day. It<br/>
is situated on the east bank of the<br/>
magnificent Meinan about three miles<br/>
below the royal palace, and half a mile<br/>
below the Prot. Chapel—between the<br/>
residences of the Borneo Company<br/>
“Limited,” and Messrs. Pickenpack<br/>
Thies & Co. We are of the opinion<br/>
that it is a very eligible location for a<br/>
Consulate, perhaps the best that could<br/>
be found here. It is so isolated from<br/>
other buildings as to enjoy a good<br/>
immunity from fire and is open to all<br/>
the air that is ever stirring. The lot on<br/>
which the house stands comprises, we<br/>
should judge, more than an acre with<br/>
a river front of about 150 feet and a<br/>
depth inland about of 300 feet. The<br/>
front is firmly diked to prevent the<br/>
bank from wearing away and presents<br/>
a bold and dry landing all its extent. On<br/>
this bank 12 or 15 feet from the dike is<br/>
a row of banyan trees, forming a delight-<br/>
ful shade and screen from the glare of<br/>
the river in a clear day. But they<br/>
will quickly become quite too thick<br/>
for beauty if left undisturbed in their<br/>
growth; and their myriad little red<br/>
roots that are now hanging down from<br/>
all the lower limbs that are within 20<br/>
feet of the ground, will, if left to them-<br/>
selves, soon be rooted in the earth and<br/>
thus in time become so many addi-<br/>
tional stalks uniting the whole of the<br/>
now 12 distinct trees into one mighty<br/>
banyan with a base of more than 150<br/>
feet in length. But this multiplica-<br/>
tion of the stalks can easily be preven-<br/>
ted by destroying those small roots<br/>
when young.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house stands back from the<br/>
landing about 150 feet with a beauti-<br/>
ful lawn in front, surrounded by a little<br/>
hedge made of an ever-blooming and<br/>
balmy shrub, tastefully trimmed and<br/>
shaped for the purposes intended to<br/>
be served by it. There are two vene-<br/>
rable tamarind trees standing in the<br/>
lawn, being original occupants, wisely<br/>
preserved to impart a rural and very<br/>
agreeable aspect to the place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house has a firm foundation<br/>
with brick walls 2 feet thick, two<br/>
stories high, and 13 feet between<br/>
joints. It has what is technically call-<br/>
ed a hip roof and is covered with<br/>
Chinese tiles. Its size is 100 feet each<br/>
way. A width of 12 feet all round<br/>
on each story is made into a veran-<br/>
dah which leaves 76 feet for the body<br/>
of the house. There is a grand hall<br/>
on each story 33 feet wide, passing en-<br/>
tirely through the house from west to<br/>
east. The portions of the building<br/>
on each side of these halls, being 21<br/>
feet in width, are divided into a variety<br/>
of rooms. The part at the right hand<br/>
on the lower story is divided into a<br/>
Consular Office, Jail, and Bath room.<br/>
On the left hand is the Court room,<br/>
and two or more other divisions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The verandah is one of the best we<br/>
have ever seen, and forms a delight-<br/>
ful promenade. The roof covering it, is<br/>
supported by neat wooden pillars, which<br/>
are connected by a tasty balustrade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the rear of the house, about 80<br/>
rods distant, passes the new royal road<br/>
coming from the king's palaces extend-<br/>
ing southward; and with it the Con-<br/>
sulate is connected by a good car-<br/>
riage road.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siam in advance of China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is gratifying to know, that in<br/>
some respects Siam is at least one reign<br/>
in advance of her Celestial neighbour.<br/>
There are those amongst us, who were<br/>
here in the late reign, and were sub<br/>
ject to its restrictions, and who can<br/>
now well appreciate the privileges<br/>
foreigners enjoy under the reign of his<br/>
present gracious Majesty. What Siam<br/>
was fifteen, or twenty years ago, Chi-<br/>
na is in some respects to-day. The<br/>
late King of Siam had not only deter-<br/>
mined to pursue that exclusive policy<br/>
to which China and Japan have held<br/>
so tenaciously, and which they have<br/>
only been forced to yield through fear<br/>
of European arms, but his person was<br/>
also considered too sacred for barba-<br/>
rian eyes to behold. It might have<br/>
been expected that the young Emper-<br/>
or of China, would have been more<br/>
liberal in this respect than his prede-<br/>
cessors, but it appears not. A gentle-<br/>
man residing in Pekin thus refers to<br/>
a journey, which the Emperor made a<br/>
few months since.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The young Emperor, has lately<br/>
made a journey to some distance from<br/>
the City, for the purpose of paying<br/>
the last honors to the remains of his<br/>
father. The Cortege was on a scale<br/>
of imposing grandeur, and had I been<br/>
permitted to witness it, I might favor<br/>
your readers with a detailed descrip-<br/>
tion. But in this capital the reign of<br/>
Oriental jealousy is not yet ended, and<br/>
in the same dispatches, in which the<br/>
Foreign Office acquainted the resident<br/>
ministers with the time fixed for the<br/>
solemn ceremony, they requested that<br/>
no foreigner should approach any of<br/>
the streets through which His Majesty<br/>
was likely to pass. Nor on this occa-<br/>
sion did the Emperor show himself<br/>
partial to his own subjects. He issu-<br/>
ed from the gates before the night<br/>
had lifted its curtain; and as an addi-<br/>
tional security against vulgar eyes,<br/>
stealing a view of his sacred person, a<br/>
double screen, was stretched on each<br/>
side of the road, as he passed.<br/>
From a pupil who peeped through the<br/>
shutters of a shop window, as the cav-<br/>
alcade was passing, I have received<br/>
an account of all he saw. His Ma-<br/>
jesty was borne on a sedan or palan-<br/>
quin, covered with yellow silk. He<br/>
was escorted by what may be called<br/>
the Pretorian Guard-—a body of about<br/>
5000 troops, who are equipped with<br/>
foreign arms, and for some time have<br/>
been training in the evolutions of<br/>
western tactics. They constitute the<br/>
chief prop of the throne, and the only<br/>
defence of the city, against the bands<br/>
of rebels who infest the provinces.<br/>
Beside the troops there was an army<br/>
of princes. They were nearly all<br/>
blood relations of the late Emperor,<br/>
and were therefore bound to partici-<br/>
pate in the sacrifice to his manes.<br/>
But the most interesting part of the<br/>
proceeding, consisted of ladies. The<br/>
two Dowagers—one the real, and the<br/>
other the nominal mother of the young<br/>
monarch—followed in sedans, similar<br/>
to that of the Emperor. Of the form-<br/>
er my informer obtained an advant-<br/>
ageous view, whilst her sedan stopped<br/>
to change bearers, and he describes<br/>
her as still young, and very beautiful.<br/>
They were accompanied by maid ser-<br/>
vants mounted on horse back, and<br/>
what is remarkable, clad in male<br/>
attire. They were very young and<br/>
managed their horses with much skill.<br/>
The ladies of the palace occupied a<br/>
long train of carts. Many carried<br/>
their precious lapdogs, and not a few,<br/>
bird cages. It was perhaps the pres-<br/>
ence of these pets, that gave rise to<br/>
the rumour, that under the colour of<br/>
visiting the tomb of his father, the<br/>
Emperor was removing his court to<br/>
another capital. The reason assigned<br/>
for so strange a movement, was the<br/>
presence of foreigners in Pekin; and<br/>
there can be no doubt, that if they<br/>
were sure the Barbarians would not<br/>
follow them, the statesmen of the court<br/>
would be glad to escape them, even<br/>
by abandoning the capital. But little<br/>
as they like us, an event has recently<br/>
taken place, which shows that the<br/>
knowledge of foreign countries, is at<br/>
a premium. An old Minister who<br/>
was degraded about fifteen years ago<br/>
for writing a book on geography, has<br/>
lately been recalled to public service,<br/>
and assigned a place on the board of<br/>
foreign affairs. The offence for which<br/>
he suffered, was not only in writing<br/>
the book, but in finding something<br/>
good out of China, and in eulogizing<br/>
such men as Peter the Great, Napo-<br/>
leon Bonaparte, and Washington."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is pleasing therefore to know that<br/>
Siam was first thrown open through<br/>
commercial treaties, by her present<br/>
king, from choice, and that it was not<br/>
forced upon him by the fear of Euro-<br/>
pean arms, or the actual smell of Euro-<br/>
pean powder as in China. Also that<br/>
he has got so far advanced, as to throw<br/>
away all useless, and unnecessary re-<br/>
strictions in regard to his person, which<br/>
would have rendered it unpleasant for<br/>
foreigners to remain here.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Courrier de Paris.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From our own Correspondent.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are often tempted to believe<br/>
that all the world is formed by the<br/>
victims either of fear or imposition.<br/>
Not long ago the public was greatly<br/>
occupied in discussing the fearful a-<br/>
mount of pauperism in London, and<br/>
we were inclined to congratulate our-<br/>
selves that our capital was exempt from<br/>
such an evil. It seems however that<br/>
we cried before we were out of the<br/>
wood, for every statistical account of<br/>
the condition of the poor in Paris show<br/>
us that we are but little in advance of<br/>
our neighbours d'outer marche.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The quarter of La Marian Blanche<br/>
is one of the poorest in Paris. It con-<br/>
tains 20,000 inhabitants 11,000 of<br/>
whom are assisted by the bureau de<br/>
bienfaisance. The clergy of this<br/>
parish, when visiting their flock, have<br/>
the habit of giving two or more francs,<br/>
according to the necessity of the fami-<br/>
ly visited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the poor are not con-<br/>
tent with this charity, and have resort<br/>
to an artful dodge, to augment the sums<br/>
left by the clergyman. One of the<br/>
family feigns to be dangerously ill, and<br/>
sends for a priest to give him the last<br/>
sacraments, which being done, the<br/>
good pastor generally leaves a small<br/>
alms before leaving the house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It frequently happens that 5 or 6<br/>
members of the family repeat the<br/>
dodge in the same day, always taking<br/>
care to send for a different confessor,<br/>
and thus a respectable sum is amassed<br/>
by these impostors; but alas! for them<br/>
the trick has been discovered by the<br/>
police, and the authors of it will have<br/>
to recover from their imaginary ill-<br/>
ness in prison.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tribunal correctionnel de Paris<br/>
has lately been occupied with the trial<br/>
of a most singular nature. A certain<br/>
Tapounier, a Swiss, has been condemn-<br/>
ed to 4 years imprisonment for hav-<br/>
ing swindled and obtained the hand of<br/>
the daughter of a nobleman under<br/>
false pretences. Tapounier began life<br/>
as a stable boy, and appears to have<br/>
been gifted with a certain amount of<br/>
natural talent, which enabled him to<br/>
carry on his infamous schemes for<br/>
sometime. He was assisted in his<br/>
machinations by persons holding a more<br/>
or less respectable footing in society,<br/>
which sufficiently prove the state of<br/>
corruption of the high classes in Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems the fashion now a days for<br/>
all the world both man and beast to<br/>
be afflicted with some malady or other.<br/>
Last year the cholera reigned trium-<br/>
phant; then the poor pigs fell ill, and<br/>
now it is the turn for the canine race<br/>
to be seized with madness. Even dogs<br/>
of high degree!! are not exempt from<br/>
the scourge and one of the King<br/>
Charles spaniel belonging to the<br/>
Empress having lately been seized with<br/>
Hydrophobia has been the cause of a<br/>
serious accident at the Court, having<br/>
bitten the first aumonier Mons.<br/>
Tirmarche.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This sorrowful event has greatly af-<br/>
flicted his Majesty Napoleon III. The<br/>
venerable prelate being an old and<br/>
faithful friend of his, having been chap-<br/>
lain of the fortress of Ham at the time<br/>
that the Emperor was prisoner at that<br/>
place. It is well known that Nepo-<br/>
leon never forgets those who were kind<br/>
to him in the days of adversity, and he<br/>
therefore surrounds Monsieur Tir-<br/>
marche with every possible comfort;<br/>
nevertheless his state causes great un-<br/>
easiness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whilst on the topics of dogs and<br/>
their diseases, we must not forget to<br/>
mention the death of the favourite<br/>
spaniel of Theressa, the celebrated<br/>
Diæa of the Alcazar. The poor ani-<br/>
mal has succumbed after a great deal<br/>
of suffering.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is not only of Epidemics that<br/>
I must speak to you, we are threatened<br/>
with something still more terrible one<br/>
of the plagues of Egypt. Immense<br/>
quantities of locusts have arrived from<br/>
the South and devastated our fertile<br/>
colony of Algiers. Letters received<br/>
thence inform us that the sun was lit-<br/>
terally darkened during the passage<br/>
of these destroying insects which con-<br/>
tinued for several days. Wherever<br/>
they alighted they devoured all before<br/>
them, laying waste the surrounding<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is to be feared that the locusts<br/>
will come to France; should they<br/>
do so, the damage they would make is<br/>
incalculable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is rare to see literary authors re-<br/>
vise and correct their works after<br/>
once they have been published. How-<br/>
ever, there is no rule without excep-<br/>
tions, and we have lately had a fine ex-<br/>
ample of the kind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mons. Emile Angier, member of the<br/>
Academie francaise and author of the<br/>
piece entitled La Contagion, which<br/>
was performed sometime back at the<br/>
Adeoy and which was at first severe-<br/>
ly criticised, has entirely re-modelled<br/>
his work, and added a fifth act to it<br/>
which is greatly superior to the others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a popular saying that Laws<br/>
are made to be broken; however the<br/>
case may be, it is certain that stolen<br/>
fruit is always the sweetest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The perfect of police has lately for-<br/>
bidden the game of baccarat (a game<br/>
of hazard) to be played in Paris clubs<br/>
or Cercles as they are called. The<br/>
consequence has been, that instead of<br/>
gambling being put an end to, it has<br/>
on the contrary been increased. It is<br/>
true the game of baccarat no longer<br/>
exists, but our young men now play<br/>
at the zen de Barethon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This game consists in placing a<br/>
purse of money on a nick and throw-<br/>
ing at it. The player who succeeds in<br/>
hitting the coin off the nick wins all<br/>
the money staked. Thus large sums<br/>
of money may be lost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And this has lately been the case at<br/>
the baccarat. Many respectable fami-<br/>
lies have been reduced to utter ruin by<br/>
the extravagance of their sons.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that an audience<br/>
was given by His Majesty the king to<br/>
Monsieur Aubaret Consul for the<br/>
French, on Friday the 6th inst. for the<br/>
reception from the Consul's hand of<br/>
the autograph letter of Napoleon III.<br/>
Emperor of the French, as also the<br/>
sword sent by the Emperor as a pre-<br/>
sent to His Majesty. What was done<br/>
with the dagger from the prince Im-<br/>
perial to prince Somdetoh Chowfa<br/>
Chulalongkorn we have not been in-<br/>
formed, but suppose it was then duly<br/>
presented to His Royal Highness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is currently reported that the<br/>
ceremonies were quite imposing, and<br/>
that many of the finest royal elephants<br/>
and royal horses were paraded on the<br/>
occasion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
M. Aubaret had a private audience<br/>
of his Majesty the day before. What<br/>
was there said and done by the parties<br/>
with reference to the past and the<br/>
future, has not yet been disclosed, at<br/>
least so far as we know.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya left Sing-<br/>
apore on Tuesday evening the 3d inst.<br/>
and arrived at the bar on Saturday<br/>
afternoon the 8 inst. Crossed the bar<br/>
at midnight, and arrived at Bangkok<br/>
at daylight on Sunday morning. The<br/>
mails were brought to Bangkok by<br/>
Messrs Dyer Schmidt & Co.'s post<br/>
boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chow Phya had fine weather<br/>
with West and S. W. winds through-<br/>
out the passage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the Chow Phya we have dates<br/>
from England and the Continent up<br/>
to 26th May, from India to 21st June,<br/>
from Rangoon and Maulmain to 21st<br/>
June, from Shanghai to 16th June,<br/>
and from Singapore to the 30th June.<br/>
Telegrams from London up to the<br/>
14th June.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Died.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the residence of her sister, on<br/>
July 8th, of dropsy, Phebe Sirr, age<br/>
32 years widow of Richard Sirr,<br/>
youngest son of the Rev. Joseph<br/>
D'Arey Sirr, of Winchester, England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deceased had been a resident<br/>
of this city only two or three months.<br/>
She came from Bengal with little hope<br/>
that she would ever recover from her<br/>
disease. We are happy to be able to re-<br/>
port, that while remaining with her<br/>
new made friends in this city, she<br/>
manifested the christian spirit, putting<br/>
all her trust for righteousness and<br/>
salvation alone in Christ, and patient-<br/>
ly waited for him to come and re-<br/>
cieved her unto himself. She was a<br/>
member of the Independent church in<br/>
England, and having backslidden, as<br/>
she penitently confessed, was enabled<br/>
by grace to hope in the restoring<br/>
mercy of God. By her special request<br/>
the bread and the cup of her Savior's<br/>
dying love were administered to her<br/>
on the sabbath seven days before her<br/>
death. She has left two little orphans<br/>
both sons, the elder about 6 years of<br/>
age in England, the younger about 3<br/>
years, here with his male and aunt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}“Asleep 'n Jesus o', how sweet<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To be for such a slumber sweet<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With holy confidence to sing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That death has lost his season'd sting”<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}“Asleep in Jesus! far from thee<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thy kindred and their graves may be<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But thine is still a blessed sleep,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}From which none ever wakes to weep.”<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
In this city on the 10th inst, very<br/>
suddenly Max Elliot aged 8 months<br/>
and 6 days, son of Paul Lessler Esqr.<br/>
Prussian Consul
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}“Thy dove-like pinion soaring<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}O'er the waves of a world of sin,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Turned to God's ark imploring,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}A pierced hand drew it in;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where tempest ne'er hath striven,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Where discord's reign is o'er,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thou dost learn the song of heaven,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And wilt sleep to earth no more.”<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">54</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">59</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">75</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">67½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Sup. mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Ord.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Inf.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">53</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEKSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">106</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUM BENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">80</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">25</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">24</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON</td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">25</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>with Seed</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td>Nominally</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">63</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">700</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">235</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD</td>
 <td>3@4 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"4@5 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"5@6 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRADOW</td>
 <td>SEED</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>7 "</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH-—</td>
 <td>Plahong</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td>Plaolit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">5¾</td>
 <td>do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td>MUSSELS</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¾</td>
 <td>do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">ROSEWOOD—-</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">230</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF—-</td>
 <td>4 Tic. 10 " per Teals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—-On Singapore 5 per cent<br/>
premium 10 d.s., Hongkong 1 per cent dis-<br/>
count 30 d.s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS-—Foreign shipping scarce;<br/>
and freights at present are from 40 to 47<br/>
cents per picul to Hong Kong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have left for Hong<br/>
Kong since 17th June, principally loaded<br/>
on owners account.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Ban Lee" with 100 piculs<br/>
pepper, 220 rice, 1850 sapanwood, 1600<br/>
sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Princess Saraphi" with 600<br/>
piculs pepper, 510 rice, 1300 sapanwood, 270<br/>
sugar, 130 teelseed, 1000 paddy, 18 hemp,<br/>
102 mussels, 3500 rosewood, 40 teak planks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Belgian brig "Guillaume" with 6567<br/>
piculs rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Happy" with 700 piculs<br/>
pepper, 2400 rice, 850 sapanwood, 900<br/>
sugar, 120 teelseed, 200 mussels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam Steamer "Viscount Canning" with<br/>
3000 piculs rice, 300 sugar, 200 tin, 100<br/>
hemp, 600 mussels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Hong Kong" with 7582 pls.<br/>
rice, 12 cardamoms, 60 hides, 1111 pepper,<br/>
1146 sapanwood, 203 sugar, 156 peas, 41<br/>
tin, 25 hemp, 154 salt fish, 2¾ ivory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hamburg schooner "Friesa" with 3882<br/>
piculs rice, 350 sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Amy Douglas" with 3500<br/>
piculs rice, 11 cardamoms, 9 hides, 530<br/>
pepper, 410 sapanwood, 479 sugar, 430<br/>
mussels, 210 mangrove bark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship "Resolute" with 2000 piculs,<br/>
pepper, 500 rice, 5000 sapanwood, 3000<br/>
sugar, 200 teelseed, 2500 paddy, 50 salt-<br/>
fish, 100 mussels, 500 rosewood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Flying Fish" with 4180<br/>
rice, 60 hides, 30 horns, 220 pepper, 70 teel-<br/>
seed, 340 mussels, 1000 mangrove bark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "St. George" with 3200 rice,<br/>
30 hides, 734 sugar, 630 teelseed, 256 salt<br/>
fish, 550 mussels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British Schooner "Fairy" with 3600 pls<br/>
rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Denmark" with 1700 piculs<br/>
rice, 488 sapanwood, 289 teelseed, 1314<br/>
paddy, 256 peas, 27 tin, 1257 rosewood, 58<br/>
mangrove bark, 5 bird's nests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Meteor" with 270 piculs<br/>
rice, 1580 sapanwood, 360 sugar, 1750<br/>
paddy, 80 hemp, 26 saltmeats, 130 tin, 400<br/>
mussels, 160 indigo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer "Chow Phya" to S.nga-<br/>
pore with 2365 piculs rice, 118 hides, 145<br/>
horns, 881 sugar, 41 teelseed, 25 peas, 16<br/>
silk, 576 salt fish, 4¾ ivory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Envoy" to Singapore with<br/>
980 piculs paddy, 92 peas, 960 salt, 150<br/>
salt fish, 6000 sets iron pans.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraph to the Straits
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The important subject is still under<br/>
discussion. It requires years of talk, be-<br/>
fore come the days of action. Very<br/>
properly the communites at Penang,<br/>
Malacca, and Singapore, desire to get con-<br/>
nected with the Indian and European<br/>
telegraph system. Whatever may be the<br/>
ultimate fate of the project for connect-<br/>
ing Australia with India, there is no good<br/>
reason in this world, why the Straits Se-<br/>
ttlements should not have their telegraph<br/>
on an early day. We are glad to notice<br/>
that a Mr. REAH, whom we believe to be<br/>
an officer of Government, has been de-<br/>
puted to Siam, whether in behalf of<br/>
Government, or in behalf of some Tele-<br/>
graph Company we are not informed, to<br/>
enter into negotiations with the King for<br/>
extending the wire from the Tena-serim<br/>
provinces into Siam, and thence down the<br/>
Coast to the Straits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are thus very happy to notice, that<br/>
all idea of laying down a Submarine cable<br/>
from Rangoon to Singapore has been a-<br/>
bandoned. It was one of the vainest and<br/>
most foolish schemes, which ever entered<br/>
the head of any man. The cable had<br/>
been actually manufactured and was about<br/>
to be shipped, and nothing but the early<br/>
close of the Chinese war saved us the<br/>
humiliation of seeing another million ster-<br/>
ling irretrievably sunk in the bottom of<br/>
the great deep.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now we seem to be acting like wise<br/>
men. Capitalists think it a proper scheme<br/>
to encourage. Every body believes that<br/>
it would be a good thing to lay down a<br/>
LAND LINK, not a Sea line, between Brit-<br/>
ish Burmah and Singapore. But capitalists<br/>
are also taking count of their dividends.<br/>
The traffic of the Straits alone would not<br/>
pay the handsome dividends which a<br/>
proper project would be likely to yield.<br/>
To be sure Singapore is a great port of<br/>
call. It is the half way house between<br/>
all Indian ports and China. It will in-<br/>
crease and prosper until the overland route<br/>
between Burmah, Siam, and China has<br/>
been constructed. Then like the Cape of<br/>
Good Hope, or rather Cape Town in<br/>
South Africa, it must decline, because<br/>
of the withdrawal of its trade to other<br/>
and more direct routes, except to Aus-<br/>
tralia which may possibly save it. Man-<br/>
kind are looking out everywhere for short<br/>
cuts in every direction. It is useless to<br/>
object to this tendency. As every mile<br/>
of railway was laid down in England, it<br/>
shut up some Turnpike road, and injured<br/>
the pocket of some Inn keeper. Many<br/>
years ago, a traveller between London<br/>
and Edinburgh had to eat a good many<br/>
dinners on the way before he reached his<br/>
destination. Now one dinner is all he<br/>
needs, and so all the old Taverns had to<br/>
some down.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
British Burmah has an interest in the<br/>
proposed Telegraph to the South as well<br/>
as the Straits. Our population will be<br/>
delighted to the put into communication<br/>
with Bangkok as well as with Penang and<br/>
Singapore. We should however be glad<br/>
to find that both Tavoy and Mergui were<br/>
brought within the limits of the line. This<br/>
line would include the port of Amherst,<br/>
for which the Merchants of Maulmain<br/>
have with a noble generosity come for-<br/>
ward and each over his own signature,<br/>
promised to pay all working expenses of<br/>
the line for a definite period.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is hoped that those who have this<br/>
Telegraph project in hand will not fail to<br/>
remember the handsome offer made by the<br/>
merchants of Maulmain. They promise<br/>
and engage to pay all working expenses<br/>
of the line for a stipulated time. Amherst<br/>
lies almost in a direct course on the route<br/>
to Bangkok. The Government have de-<br/>
clined the construction of this line, be-<br/>
cause as it is said, they have other and<br/>
more important points to connect. They<br/>
cannot lay down telegraphs everywhere<br/>
at once, and the Director General has no<br/>
personal knowledge of the province and<br/>
as a consequence no interest in its com-<br/>
mercial or political welfare. Twice has<br/>
this authority vetoed the application laid<br/>
before him, on this very subject of put-<br/>
ting up a telegraph wire between the<br/>
town of Maulmain and the port of Am-<br/>
herst a distance only of twenty five miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No reasonable doubt can be entertained<br/>
that if Bangkok can be connected, and<br/>
there is no reason why it should not, with<br/>
the proposed Telegrams to the Straits,<br/>
two important objects will have been<br/>
achieved. One is, that much of the dis-<br/>
tance will have been gained toward Sai-<br/>
gon and China; the other is, 'the line will<br/>
pay better dividends to its shareholders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our public will therefore feel a com-<br/>
mon interest in the mission of Mr Read,<br/>
to the King of Siam, and we shall! all<br/>
hope that his efforts may be crowned with<br/>
complete success.—-RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Famine in Orissa.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FAMINE spreads in Orissa, but not<br/>
there alone. It has again broken out in<br/>
Behar, and in some places with terrible<br/>
severity. Even the rich districts of Tirhoot<br/>
suffers, and there is a call for the imme-<br/>
diate construction of the chord railway<br/>
through the Monghyr district to save its<br/>
lowes classes. Districts like Purnea are<br/>
beginning to be affected and parts of<br/>
Krishnaghur have long felt the scarcity. Of<br/>
Tirhoot a correspondent writes thus;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ryots in these parts are very badly<br/>
off, numbers dying daily for want of food,<br/>
and matters getting worse. The very worst<br/>
rice sells at 8 seers the rupee, which puts<br/>
a full meal quite out of the power of the<br/>
lower orders. In all my experience I<br/>
never witnessed anything so distressing as<br/>
the sight of the poor starved wretches you<br/>
meet on the roads, and lying on the high-<br/>
ways unable to proceed further. They just<br/>
lie down to die. Government must be<br/>
cognizant of the wretched state these poor<br/>
people are in, yet they give no help. If<br/>
matters are left as they are, one half of<br/>
our working population in this part of the<br/>
district will die from starvation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR,—-Permit us once more to encroach<br/>
on your space with details of the sufferings<br/>
from famine in Orissa. We have received<br/>
a letter from Mr. Miller, and enclose it for<br/>
insertion. He writes from Pooree, 16th<br/>
May 1866:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“When I entered the town I was horror-<br/>
struck by the number of living skeletons,<br/>
in the shape of men, women, and children,<br/>
seen prowling about in search of food, and<br/>
actually turning up with their hands the<br/>
gravel and dust in front of shops in the<br/>
hope of finding grains of rice or any thing<br/>
in the shape of food, which might be con-<br/>
cealed. Nothing eatable, however filthy<br/>
and offensive, is rejected! I saw one youth<br/>
in the act of eating grass, a mode of trying<br/>
to satisfy the gnawings of hunger which I<br/>
fear is now commonly resorted to. The<br/>
first victim of this fearful visitation I saw,<br/>
was an an elderly female lying in the street<br/>
opposite a wealthy marl, just about to<br/>
breathe her last. The next was a man ly-<br/>
ing with his face to the ground, so reduced<br/>
as to be unable to move or speak. My at-<br/>
tention was then directed to a lad asleep<br/>
in the road near the Raja's residence; he<br/>
was the complete skeleton; every bone was<br/>
visible; he seemed unable to arise or speak.<br/>
After several attempts he succeeded in the<br/>
faintest voice imaginable to tell where he<br/>
came from. Not far from this youth I<br/>
found a mother seated by his son. She<br/>
was blind and much enfeebled; he, who<br/>
had evidently been a tall strong man, was<br/>
reduced to a skeleton and lay on his back<br/>
perfectly helpless. I arranged to have<br/>
food supplied to them for a week. After<br/>
two days they both died. On the south of<br/>
the temple I came up to what appeared to<br/>
be a corpse. On inspection signs of life<br/>
were perceived. After being aroused a<br/>
grey-haired old man fearfully emaciated,<br/>
managed to breathe out the name of his<br/>
village. Near the south-east corner of the<br/>
temple I found a large crowd of hungry<br/>
emaciated men, women and children, cry-<br/>
ing out in the most touching manner for<br/>
food, the bony deformed bodies and pinch-<br/>
ed up, extenuated and unnatural counten-<br/>
ances of most of them with their vehement<br/>
cries for help told a tale of protracted ab-<br/>
stinence from food and intense suffering<br/>
which would have melted a heart of stone.<br/>
I tried to relieve the worst cases. There<br/>
were however so many applicants, and so<br/>
great was the pressure, and commotion, I<br/>
was not able on this occasion to do all I<br/>
intended. On my next visit I entered a<br/>
shop where rice was sold; immediately a<br/>
crowd of starving creatures collected.<br/>
With the help of a policeman I got them<br/>
to sit in two rows in order to give each a<br/>
little rice. Before half had been served.”<br/>
the original number, 100, or so, had in-<br/>
creased to three hundred. Hence I was<br/>
obliged to confine myself to the most needy<br/>
cases. The number of these poor creatures<br/>
in the town is daily augmented by acces-<br/>
sions from the surrounding districts, espe-<br/>
cially from Goope and the region south of<br/>
this, where probably the famine has been<br/>
most severely felt. It is now most difficult<br/>
to pass through the town without the aid<br/>
of the police. Last evening I was imme-<br/>
diately surrounded by hundreds who fol-<br/>
lowed me, crying out most piteously and<br/>
loudly for rice. Some seized the bridle of<br/>
my pony; others laid hold of my coat, sev-<br/>
eral prostrated themselves so as to com-<br/>
pletely block up the way. Had it not<br/>
been for the police coming to my rescue,<br/>
I really do not know how I could have got<br/>
away.—-FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"RAIN FALL IN BURMAH." On the op-<br/>
posite shores of the Malay Peninsula in<br/>
Siam, the mean annual fall of rain appears<br/>
to be much smaller than it is on the Sea<br/>
coast of Burmah, and even in the hilly<br/>
range of the interior at Toungoo. We<br/>
find in the Bangkok Calendar, a table ex-<br/>
hibiting the actual quantity which fell at<br/>
Bangkok during a series of years, begin-<br/>
ning with the year 1858. The maximum<br/>
fall was in 1860, when there were seventy<br/>
two inches and a half came down. In 1864<br/>
there was a minimum fall of only thirty<br/>
nine inches. Even with the comparative-<br/>
ly small fall of rain during the year, there<br/>
is one peculiarity in the climate of Siam,<br/>
which does not occur in Burmah, and that<br/>
is, they have generally showers of rain<br/>
during every month of the year. The oc-<br/>
casional fall of rain every month especially<br/>
at the season which is deemed the hottest,<br/>
does not occur here, but the refreshing ef-<br/>
fect of which must be well marked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the coast of Siam, the south west<br/>
monsoon seems to be the same wet rainy<br/>
period, as it is on the coast of Burmah,<br/>
only there is less moisture and intensity to<br/>
the weather. April is the driest and hot-<br/>
test month in the year at Bangkok, as it is<br/>
at Rangoon. But about the middle of the<br/>
month the south west monsoon opens<br/>
there, by very copious and heavy falls of<br/>
rain. Here at Rangoon the monsoon does<br/>
not set in until a month later. Taking an<br/>
average for a great many years, the first<br/>
showers of the opening monsoon do not<br/>
fall here, till the second or third week in<br/>
May. Often the long period of five months<br/>
pass away without a single shower, though<br/>
there occasionally are two or three falls of<br/>
rain sometimes at the end of March and<br/>
other times in April. These are commonly<br/>
called the " MANGO SHOWERS " from the<br/>
fact, that this description of fruit with<br/>
which the mango trees are then laden,<br/>
require water very much to hasten forward<br/>
their growth, and a shower for two of rain<br/>
exercises a very marked effect at that time,<br/>
on vegetation generally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this latitude May is commonly a very<br/>
blustering month. The heat is truly in-<br/>
tense. The winds which now rise are<br/>
blown about in every direction. There is<br/>
occasional thunder and lightning, which<br/>
has a most beneficial effect on the cir-<br/>
cumambient volume of air resting on the<br/>
earth. The rain produces immense relief<br/>
both to the animal and vegetable kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rangoon is becoming by the incessant<br/>
trotting of carts and gharries over its<br/>
streets, one of the dustiest places in the<br/>
East. It rivals Cape Town in South<br/>
Africa, where every person, who can afford<br/>
it wears a green veil, whether man or<br/>
woman, to keep the dust from very nearly<br/>
suffocating them. When strong winds<br/>
blow down the gorge of Table mountain<br/>
and the TABLE CLOTH is spread, the dust<br/>
of the hills is swept down with great vio-<br/>
lence against the face of passengers walk-<br/>
ing along the public streets. In the ab-<br/>
sence of rain which sometimes holds off<br/>
for days the sand is driven with a force<br/>
that will make most persons remember it<br/>
for a good long while after, who have<br/>
once experienced it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the last rains the quantity which<br/>
fell in the Pegu division exhibits a pretty<br/>
fair average. Rangoon, as might be ex-<br/>
pected from its nearness to the Sea got<br/>
the largest quantity, or one hundred and<br/>
forty inches of rain, or nearly twelve feet<br/>
of water. There are many of the smaller<br/>
class of Gun Boats in Her Majesty's Navy<br/>
which could float very nicely in twelve<br/>
feet of water. Toungoo showed the next<br/>
largest quantity, or six inches less than<br/>
quantity which fell at Rangoon. Bassein<br/>
did not measure the rain for the want of a<br/>
pluviometer, which has now been supplied.<br/>
In the interior of the division, the rain<br/>
fall diminishes as you get farther away<br/>
from the ocean. At Myanoung and They-<br/>
etmyo, we have the same average, as at<br/>
Bangkok or about fifty one inches. As you<br/>
ascend the Irrawaddy, the quantity is still<br/>
less and less, till you reach the royal city,<br/>
where they have only three or four showers<br/>
of rain throughout the whole year. In<br/>
upper Burmah irrigation is conducted whol-<br/>
ly by the annual inundation of the river,<br/>
which overflows its banks and spreads the<br/>
water for miles all over the adjacent coun-<br/>
try. In April and May enormous quanti-<br/>
ties of snow are melted on the northern<br/>
ranges of mountains stretching far into<br/>
Thibet and Chinese Tartary, which causes<br/>
the Irrawaddy to rise to the height of<br/>
twenty five and thirty feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
However much, Siam may be exposed<br/>
to changes in the nature of its season, as<br/>
was the case last year in a diminished fall<br/>
of rain, from the sheltering effects pro-<br/>
duced by the Malay peninsula, lower Bur-<br/>
mah must always remain exempt from<br/>
such a contingency. The whole coast is<br/>
open to the full brunt of the South west<br/>
monsoon, coming directly across the Bay<br/>
of Bengal. Heat will always produce<br/>
vapours on the surface of the ocean at cer-<br/>
tain seasons, and those vapours will be<br/>
blown toward the land and be condensed<br/>
into rain, which by the laws of gravita-<br/>
tion must fall to the earth which it ever<br/>
refreshes, fertilizes, and blesses for the<br/>
comfort and happiness of man.-—RANGOON<br/>
TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Monetary Panic.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
ILL. LONDON NEWS 29TH MAY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE City will not soon forget Friday,<br/>
May 11, 1866—"Black Friday," it has been<br/>
designated with great propriety. On that<br/>
day the monetary unsettledness of some<br/>
weeks past, which the day—before had risen<br/>
to a gale, culminated in a tornado, the<br/>
frightful force of which was far beyond all<br/>
precedent within the memory of the living,<br/>
and which, if it had continued four-and-<br/>
twenty hours longer, seemed likely to in-<br/>
volve in disaster and wreck all the money<br/>
establishments of the country. Happily,<br/>
and let us add, owing in great measure to<br/>
the moral courage and promptitude of the<br/>
Government, the fury of the commotion<br/>
was as short lived as it was violent, and<br/>
before Saturday was gone the panic may<br/>
be said to have subsided; and credit, which<br/>
had been suddenly prostrated by the irre-<br/>
sistible force of the hurricane, albeit trem-<br/>
bling and bewildered, stood erect once more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From time to time, for two or three<br/>
months past, there have appeared pheno-<br/>
mena in the money market which were in-<br/>
terpreted by some as prognostications of<br/>
an approaching convulsion. They did not,<br/>
it is true, show themselves in the usual or-<br/>
der of succession. They were somewhat<br/>
fitful in their occurrence, and rather indi-<br/>
cated an abnormal state of things than<br/>
pointed with consentaneous precision to-<br/>
wards what was about to happen. The<br/>
feel of the atmosphere, if we may be allow-<br/>
ed the expression, created uncanny occa-<br/>
sionally amounting to anxiety. Still, gen-<br/>
eral as may have been that undefinable<br/>
sort of apprehension which so often fore-<br/>
runs a storm, nobody, it is probable, enter-<br/>
ed upon last week with the least idea of<br/>
the proximity and irresistibleness of the<br/>
outburst he was destined to witness before<br/>
its conclusion. No gloomy imagination<br/>
prefigured anything which came near the<br/>
actual event in destructive power. Its<br/>
suddenness, its sweep, its terrific force,<br/>
startled the stoutest-hearted into dismay.<br/>
Sensible men, men of cool reason and<br/>
strong nerve, grew pallid at the prospect<br/>
before them; for at midday, on Friday, it<br/>
seemed as if the whole commercial and<br/>
monetary system of the country would<br/>
presently collapse.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The disturbed condition of the money<br/>
market excited no terror until Thursday<br/>
afternoon. It was then announced that<br/>
the great discounting house of Overend,<br/>
Gurney, and Co. (Limited), had been com-<br/>
pelled to suspend payment. The business,<br/>
which was the largest of the kind in the<br/>
City, and for the goodwill of which half a<br/>
million sterling had been paid, had less<br/>
than twelve months ago been transferred<br/>
from the old firm to a limited liability<br/>
company, who had since then reaped such<br/>
an extent of loss sown for them by their<br/>
predecessors, and had sustained such a<br/>
singular concurrence of disasters, that<br/>
speculative shareholders in the concern<br/>
took alarm and began to sell out. Shares<br/>
naturally fell to a discount, and depositors<br/>
in turn, became nervous and apprehensive.<br/>
A persistent and exhaustive drain of the<br/>
resources of the establishment forced the<br/>
managing directors to seek assistance from<br/>
the Bank of England, which, stringently<br/>
applying its own rule not to rediscount for<br/>
discount houses, declined compliance with<br/>
their solicitation. There was no time for<br/>
employing any other expedient, and the<br/>
company, with liabilities exceeding £10,-<br/>
000,000, of which £3,500,000 is covered by<br/>
no security, had no option but to stop pay-<br/>
ment. The excitement caused by the an-<br/>
nouncement of this stupendous failure was<br/>
intense, and the red sky of Thursday even-<br/>
ing betokened a tempestuous morrow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The morrow dawned upon three or four<br/>
monetary disasters of appalling magnitude.<br/>
The first sign of the distress, destined to<br/>
increase hour by hour, was the raising of<br/>
the rate of discount from 8 per cent to 9<br/>
per cent, by the Bank of England. If such<br/>
a bark, it was asked, is compelled to ride<br/>
under storm sails, what is likely to be the<br/>
fate of weaker craft? The reply, given by<br/>
facts, came almost instantly. The English<br/>
Joint-Stock Bank, with its thirty-one pro-<br/>
vincial branches, deemed it expedient to<br/>
close its doors for the present. This was<br/>
but a comparatively small affair—a mere<br/>
prelude of what was to follow. The next<br/>
announcement was the stoppage of Messrs.<br/>
Peto and Betts, the great contractors,<br/>
whose liabilities were estimated at about<br/>
£4,000,000. Two of the finance companies<br/>
presently gave way—the Imperial Mercan-<br/>
tile Credit Association, with a nominal<br/>
capital of £5,000,000, and the Consolidated<br/>
Discount Company, with a capital of £1,-<br/>
000,000. As information of the rapidly-<br/>
extending ruin spread abroad, a complete<br/>
panic seized the commercial world in Lon-<br/>
don. Lombard-street was besieged by<br/>
crowds of struggling and half-frantic cred-<br/>
itors, and the heads of houses in Lombard-<br/>
street fled for aid to the Bank of England.<br/>
Upwards of £4,000,000 was distributed at<br/>
9, and in special cases at 10 per cent dis-<br/>
count amongst the private and joint-stock<br/>
banks and other establishments able to<br/>
offer unexceptionable security; and the<br/>
Bank reserve, which in the morning stood<br/>
at nearly six millions, was reduced to three<br/>
before the close of business hours. The<br/>
fury of the storm increased as the day<br/>
wore on, and threatened to submerge every-<br/>
thing exposed to its force. Solvent and<br/>
insolvent firms were alike imperilled; and<br/>
it became difficult, and in many instances<br/>
impossible, to purchase safety at any sacri-<br/>
fice. The first mitigation of the prevailing<br/>
terror was produced by an incorrect ru-<br/>
mour that the Bank Charter Act had been<br/>
suspended, on the responsibility of the Go-<br/>
vernment. Then, even the despondent<br/>
saw a break in the clouds, and the sun<br/>
went down amid signs that the worst had<br/>
already been encountered and that the<br/>
next day might be a brighter one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fortunately, what was but an incorrect<br/>
rumour at five o'clock on Friday afternoon<br/>
had become before Saturday morning an<br/>
indisputable fact; but the panic which was<br/>
born of one fancy had been strangled by<br/>
another. The Chancellor of the Exche-<br/>
quer stated in his place in the House of<br/>
Commons at an early part of the sitting<br/>
that there was no truth in the statement<br/>
that her Majesty's Government had autho-<br/>
rised any step to be taken at variance with<br/>
the provisions of the Act of 1844. At a<br/>
much later hour, however, having in the<br/>
interval received a deputation from the<br/>
joint-stock bankers of London, who cor-<br/>
roborated the statements and enforced the<br/>
request which Mr. Gladstone had previ-<br/>
ously received from the private bankers,<br/>
he admitted that the state of things in the<br/>
City and of the public feeling excited<br/>
thereby called for the intervention of Gov-<br/>
ernment. Jointly with the First Lord of<br/>
the Treasury, therefore, he had addressed<br/>
to the Governor and Deputy Governor of<br/>
the Bank of England a letter substantially<br/>
the same as was addressed to those officers<br/>
in 1847 and 1857. In other words, those<br/>
potentates of the monetary world were re-<br/>
commended by the Queen's Ministers, to<br/>
the unspeakable relief of every banking<br/>
and commercial establishment in the king-<br/>
dom, if it should be found necessary to the<br/>
restoration of confidence, to issue bank-<br/>
notes beyond the limits fixed by law; and<br/>
were promised, in case they should do so,<br/>
a Ministerial application to Parliament for<br/>
its sanction. It is not likely that any in-<br/>
fraction of the statute will be needed, the<br/>
more liberty of the Bank of England to<br/>
disregard its restrictive provisions having<br/>
sufficed to dispel further apprehension.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In truth, the panic ceased almost as sud-<br/>
denly as it had sprung up. It was a single<br/>
day of wild, ungovernable terror. Before<br/>
the country could thoroughly realise the<br/>
danger, it had passed. Men look back<br/>
upon it and shudder at the thought of<br/>
what it might have been, at what it must<br/>
have been if the barriers of law had not<br/>
been temporarily removed by the hands of<br/>
the Executive. And, of course, retrospec-<br/>
tion is followed by discussion as to how<br/>
the phenomenon may be best accounted<br/>
for, and how a recurrence of it may be best<br/>
avoided. Into such discussion we are not<br/>
about to drag our readers. Nothing only<br/>
as significant characteristics of the sever-<br/>
est monetary crisis which has yet occurred<br/>
that it was entirely limited to England,<br/>
and that it happened at a time when, on<br/>
the admission of the Chancellor of the Ex-<br/>
chequer, there was no general unsoundness<br/>
in the condition of our commercial rela-<br/>
tions, we content ourselves with sketching<br/>
in barest outline the course of events, and<br/>
with adding our voice to the universal ut-<br/>
terance of thankfulness that the calamity<br/>
is overpast, and that the ruin it caused was<br/>
so much less extensive than was feared.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hints for Singers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A frequent excuse put forth by per-<br/>
sons asked to sing is the declaration<br/>
that "they would be delighted, if they<br/>
could remember the words." As words,<br/>
in the present style of singing, really<br/>
matter very little, we give the follow-<br/>
ing verses as a sample of the kind of<br/>
thing that may be sung by people of<br/>
short memories : "Oh, if I had lumty<br/>
tum lumty tum too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Land of the olive and fig:<br/>
I would sing of the lumty tum lumty<br/>
to you,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And play on the thingamy jig.<br/>
And if in the lumty tum battle I fall,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A tumty tum's all that I crave;<br/>
O, bury me deep in the what you-may<br/>
call,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And plant thingumbobs over my<br/>
grave.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
RECEIPT THAT NEVER FAILS—-<br/>
To destroy rats—-catch them one by<br/>
one, and flatten their heads with a<br/>
lemon-squeezer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishment<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
double, two couches, two wash-<br/>
stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 5th July, 1866.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ALL persons having any de-<br/>
mands on the undersigned,<br/>
will present them for payment,<br/>
and all persons indebted to the<br/>
undersigned, are requested to<br/>
make payment, on or before, the<br/>
15th of August, or the same will<br/>
be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
