---
linkTitle: 'September 20th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 20th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 20th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 60
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, September 20th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 37.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Moravian Child's Hymn.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Jesus' little Lamb am I,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On His goodness I rely;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He, my gentle Shepherd, leads me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In His pastures green He feeds me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For He knows me, loves me well,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And my little name can tell.<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Underneath His gracious staff,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I go in and out and have<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pasture sweet around me lying.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Still my hungry soul supplying.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When I thirst, my feet he brings<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where the living water springs.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Should a lambkin, then, like me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ever sad and thankless be?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When these pleasant days are ended,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On my Shepherd's bosom tended,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I shall go to perfect bliss—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Amen!-—no joy can equal this.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Christian Wife's Triumph.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Tyng gives the following incident<br/>
that occurred in his pastoral experience.<br/>
It illustrates the power of gentleness, of<br/>
a wife's gentleness, to bring her husband<br/>
near the Saviour's feet:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many years since, a gay and fashion-<br/>
able couple lived near me and attended<br/>
my ministry. The wife was beautiful,<br/>
social, and admired. The husband was<br/>
rich and worldly, and delighted in the<br/>
admiration which, in society, his wife<br/>
received. They lived a reckless, gay,<br/>
and worldly life. Except in the worship<br/>
of an occasional Sunday morning, they<br/>
knew nothing of religion, and cared for<br/>
nothing they heard, even then.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But in the wonders of His grace, this<br/>
gay and fashionable woman was conver-<br/>
ted there, and in the most open and de-<br/>
cided manner renounced her life of folly,<br/>
and cast her lot among the followers of<br/>
the Lord. Her sudden change of life<br/>
and purpose intensely enraged her un-<br/>
converted husband, who had no sympathy<br/>
with her, and could not understand her.<br/>
He tried in every possible manner to<br/>
overthrow her plans, and drive her from<br/>
her choice. He forbade her union with<br/>
the church in any personal act. He<br/>
watched at the gates of the church-yard<br/>
to prevent her entrance by force. So<br/>
far was this hostility carried that at last<br/>
she found access to the church, for her<br/>
appointed baptism, only through the<br/>
window in the rear. Thus matters went<br/>
on for weeks, every day bringing me<br/>
some new tidings of his violence and her<br/>
sufferings. How much of their domestic<br/>
affairs were known to others, I never<br/>
knew.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The people and the generation have<br/>
passed away. Their young children are<br/>
now mature, and several of them are<br/>
parents themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some weeks of this new history had<br/>
passed, when late one evening, after I<br/>
had retired to my chamber for the night,<br/>
my door-bell was violently pulled, and a<br/>
messenger said Mrs. — desired to see<br/>
me immediately. I dressed and went,<br/>
anticipating some new scene of violence,<br/>
and simply saying to my wife where I<br/>
was going, in case I might be prevented<br/>
from returning. The streets were soli-<br/>
tary and still. As I ascended the steps<br/>
the door was quietly opened to me, and<br/>
I was directed to the parlor, where to<br/>
my surprise, I found the two sitting to-<br/>
gether on the sofa, with no other person<br/>
present. The man looked up to me in<br/>
an agony of tears, as in astonishment I<br/>
sat by his side and asked an explanation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh, sir," he cried, "Can I be saved,<br/>
can I be saved?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, surely," I answered; "but you<br/>
amaze me - what has led you to this?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This angel," he replied with eager-<br/>
ness. "You know how I hated her re-<br/>
ligion. But you do not know how I<br/>
hated you. I thought you the blackest<br/>
of human beings. You had broken up<br/>
my happiness, you had destroyed my<br/>
peace, you had separated my family, you<br/>
had alienated my wife from me. I was<br/>
intensely enraged with you. I have<br/>
several times watched for you at night<br/>
with the intention of killing you. But it<br/>
is all over now. I am thankful to see<br/>
you. But this angel wife—I have cur-<br/>
sed her, I have pulled her down by the<br/>
hair; and she has received it all in silence<br/>
and meekness. She has never said one<br/>
unkind word in reply; but she has pray-<br/>
ed for me, and loved me. And I can<br/>
stand it no longer. I am miserable, be-<br/>
cause I am so guilty. I have rebelled so<br/>
horribly. I have been loved and treat-<br/>
ed so affectionately. Can I be saved?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wife sat silently and heard the<br/>
whole—and then gently said,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My dear husband seemed so distres-<br/>
sed to night, that I took the liberty to<br/>
send for you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With what delight did I preach the<br/>
Saviour's love to the lost one, thus arous-<br/>
ed by that love to see his own voluntary<br/>
and aggravated guilt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We passed more than an hour thus to-<br/>
gether, and closed our conversation with<br/>
earnest prayer. Blessed indeed was the<br/>
result. The strong man armed had found a<br/>
stronger than he, who had taken from<br/>
him all his armor wherein he was trusted, and<br/>
spoiled his goods. He was subdued by<br/>
love, converted by Divine power. He<br/>
too came into the Saviour's flock, and on<br/>
the side of Jesus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How changed the mad one became,<br/>
"sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and<br/>
in his right mind." He witnessed among<br/>
us for years a good confession—he was<br/>
honored and beloved in the church—a<br/>
pattern of gentleness and fidelity at home<br/>
and abroad.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After some years of earnest Christian<br/>
life on earth, his course was finished and<br/>
his rest obtained. I have since hardly<br/>
passed the house in which they lived,<br/>
without recalling to my mind this whole<br/>
remarkable scene—that popular display<br/>
of grace—that voluntary wanderer, and<br/>
the wonderful love and mercy which in<br/>
so much rebellion he received. He as-<br/>
sumed all the responsibility of the guilty<br/>
wandering upon himself. He learned to<br/>
give all the glory of his recovery to that<br/>
amazing grace, which had plucked him<br/>
as a brand from the burning, and loved<br/>
him when he was dead in sins.—PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Telegraphic Girdle.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not surprising that the most pro-<br/>
minent features in the thought of the pre-<br/>
sent day should be its rationalistic or<br/>
materialistic tendencies. That man should<br/>
practically worship himself, and make<br/>
himself the measure or judge of the infi-<br/>
nite, in a period distinguished above all<br/>
others by the study of physical science<br/>
and the triumphs of scientific discovery, is<br/>
not so unnatural as it is sad. Has not this<br/>
generation for instance heard the assem-<br/>
bled wisdom of England denounce the<br/>
project of a locomotive railway as both<br/>
impossible and blasphemous, and yet with-<br/>
in a few years of that denunciation trains<br/>
ran at sixty miles an hour? Still more<br/>
striking is the fact that not twenty years<br/>
ago Lord Russell laughed at a Scotch elec-<br/>
trician who proposed to connect London<br/>
with Edinburgh; and in 1850 English<br/>
newspaper declared a project for laying a<br/>
cable under the Straits of Dover to be "a<br/>
gigantic swindle." Yet in twelve years<br/>
from that date Calcutta receives messages<br/>
from London a few hours old. And to aid<br/>
to the triumphs of material science, the<br/>
sixteen hundred miles which separate Ire-<br/>
land from America have been annihilated<br/>
by the Atlantic cable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most opportunely Mr. J. Stephen in the<br/>
last number of the FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW<br/>
sketches the various failures and successes<br/>
of electric cables. In 1850 the Submarine<br/>
Telegraph Company connected Dover with<br/>
Calais by a cable which worked only a few<br/>
hours, for a fisherman hooked it up and<br/>
offered portions of it in the streets of Bou-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
logue as a rare seaweed with a core of pure<br/>
gold. In 1854 an American Company was<br/>
established to connect St. John’s, New-<br/>
foundland, with the telegraph system of<br/>
Canada and the United States, thus reduc-<br/>
ing the distance in time to Galway to five<br/>
days. Just when the company failed a re-<br/>
tired American capitalist, Mr. Cyrus Field,<br/>
met in New York with Mr. N. Gisborne of<br/>
London who wished to renew the project,<br/>
and he suddenly proposed—-“Why not<br/>
cross the Atlantic together?” The Atlan-<br/>
tic Telegraph Company was formed. Mr.<br/>
Gisborne’s right to land cables for fifty<br/>
years on Newfoundland and Labrador was<br/>
purchased, and in 1857 the sum of £350,000<br/>
was subscribed, while the English and<br/>
American Governments each guaranteed a<br/>
subsidy of £14,000 a year so long as the<br/>
line should be in working order. After<br/>
four efforts the cable was submerged on 7th<br/>
August 1858, and American, feeling herself<br/>
linked for the first time to the associations<br/>
and civilization of the old world, waved<br/>
her flags, fired her cannon and lighted<br/>
bonfires from one end of the States to the<br/>
other. But alas so imperfect was the in-<br/>
sulation that only 271 messages passed<br/>
along the cable, and these were almost un-<br/>
intelligible. Her Majesty’s congratulatory<br/>
despatch of ninety-eight words occupied<br/>
sixteen hours in transmission, and Presi-<br/>
dent Buchanan’s reply of a hundred and<br/>
forty-nine words was sixteen hours on the<br/>
way. Except when galvanised into life for<br/>
a moment on 20th October the cable re-<br/>
mained silent after 18th September. Then<br/>
came the failure of the Red Sea line in<br/>
1859, and of others at later dates, so that<br/>
in 1861 no less than 8,000 out of 11,364<br/>
miles of cable submerged in different seas,<br/>
were worthless. This led to the appoint-<br/>
ment of a Royal Commission, which was<br/>
followed by the successful cable in the Per-<br/>
sian Gulf, by an extension of the Mediter-<br/>
ranean lines, and finally by the renewed<br/>
attempt last year to lay the Atlantic cable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The details of that attempt have a curi-<br/>
ous interest after the success of the third<br/>
cable just announced. After eight months’<br/>
incessant labour in manufacturing the ca-<br/>
ble the GREAT EASTERN left the shore end<br/>
in Foilhumerum Bay, Valentia, on 23rd<br/>
July, and steamed off on her journey of<br/>
about 1600 miles to Trinity Bay, New-<br/>
foundland. All went well, with occasional<br/>
faults owing to the escape of the electric<br/>
current to the sea through leaks in the gut-<br/>
ta percha covering, till August 2nd when,<br/>
at a distance of 1100 miles from Ireland,<br/>
serious electric leakage was discovered,<br/>
and on recovering the cable it snapped and<br/>
went to the bottom. This catastrophe was<br/>
quite unexpected. The engineers, however,<br/>
managed to hook the cable after several at-<br/>
tempts, but just when success seemed pos-<br/>
sible the wire rope and hawser by which it<br/>
was being lifted yielded to the great strain,<br/>
and the ship returned on 10th August.<br/>
Though this is termed the second it is real-<br/>
ly the sixth failure to cross the Atlantic.<br/>
The fact of nineteen thousand useless miles<br/>
of cable lying at the bottom of the sea was<br/>
sufficient to damp any but the most eager<br/>
electricians and trustful capitalists. As the<br/>
Atlantic Telegraph Company could not is-<br/>
sue preference shares the Anglo-American<br/>
Company was started and that has at last<br/>
succeeded, if we may trust the first tele-<br/>
grams, though it is suspicious that no<br/>
others have followed. Mr. Stephen de-<br/>
nounces all iron-covered cables because<br/>
“at best their safe submersion is a lottery<br/>
and their successful working, even when<br/>
submerged, very problematical.” The ma-<br/>
nagers of this new attempt, on the contra-<br/>
ry have made the cable heavier than ever,<br/>
so, that a writer in the TIMES says, the li-<br/>
mit of its breaking strain has never been<br/>
discovered. Its outer covering is compo-<br/>
sed of iron bars as thick as ordinary pa-<br/>
pers, and it weighs twenty tons to the mile.<br/>
It is nearly double the size and strength of<br/>
the largest submarine cable ever made.<br/>
That accomplished SAVAN, Professor Thom-<br/>
son, went out in the GREAT EASTERN while<br/>
Mr. Cromwell Varley remained at Valentia,<br/>
to superintend the electric communication<br/>
and work the cable by their new appara-<br/>
tus known as the curb key. It was remark-<br/>
ed as an omen of success that not a single<br/>
fault occurred during the manufacture of<br/>
the cable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor will this be the only string to our<br/>
electric bow. So early as 1852 Mr. Wyld,<br/>
M.P., projected a telegraph to America<br/>
from Thurso by the Faroe Islands, Iceland,<br/>
Greenland and Labrador. Unfortunately<br/>
a Colonel Shaffner of America had obtain-<br/>
ed a right of way from the Danish Govern-<br/>
ment for a hundred years, and only on his<br/>
failure last autumn was it transferred to<br/>
Mr. Wyld, or communication might have<br/>
been realised long ago. A committee of<br/>
the ablest electricians advised Mr. Wyld<br/>
not to cover the cable with iron or any me-<br/>
tal. The North Atlantic Company was last<br/>
month in course of formation with a capi-<br/>
tal of two millions in twenty pound shares,<br/>
and we trust the success of the Valentia<br/>
route will not arrest their project. The on-<br/>
ly condition the King of Denmark has in-<br/>
sisted on are the establishment of an inde-<br/>
pendent line from that country to England,<br/>
and from Copenhagen to Norway. This<br/>
will give the Continent American news as<br/>
soon as Great Britain, and all direct tele-<br/>
grams to India will come by that way.<br/>
The course of the cable will be from Thur-<br/>
so to Thorshavn in the Faroes, a distance<br/>
of 250 miles. Land wires will run from<br/>
Thorshavn to Halderdvig, and cables from<br/>
Halderdvig to Bernfjord, in Iceland—240<br/>
miles. Land wires will run again from<br/>
Bernfjord to Reykjavik, and cables from<br/>
Reykjavik to Julianeshaab, in Greenland—<br/>
748 miles. From Julianeshaab to Hamil-<br/>
ton’s inlet, in Labrador, cables will run for<br/>
540 miles. It is probable, however, that<br/>
Labrador will be avoided, and lines run to<br/>
Belle Isle, north of Newfoundland. The<br/>
whole length will thus be similar to that of<br/>
the Valentia cable. This route has other<br/>
advantages. The depth is less than in the<br/>
Atlantic, the bottom is of fine mud, be-<br/>
tween Scotland and Iceland the cables will<br/>
be from 120 to 130 miles shorter than those<br/>
which have been in use between England<br/>
and Denmark for about seven years; whilst<br/>
the longest section—between Iceland and<br/>
Greenland-—will be about one-half the<br/>
length of the Persian Gulf line, and about<br/>
800 miles shorter than the Malta and Alex-<br/>
andria one. The speed of transmission will<br/>
be three times greater. Arctic explorers<br/>
like McClintock, Belcher and Sherard Os-<br/>
born, who know every inch of the ground,<br/>
are enthusiastic supporters of the scheme.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So man will be united with man. The<br/>
exhausted Englishman in the plains of In-<br/>
dia will be in direct communication with<br/>
the icebound inhabitants of Reykjavik, the<br/>
capital of Iceland; while, on the other<br/>
side, the day is not much further distant<br/>
when he may hold telegraphic converse<br/>
with the Russian exile in far Kamshkatka,<br/>
or the English colonist in Vancouver.—<br/>
THE FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America as an Ally.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Pall Mall Gazette.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whoever considers attentively the posi-<br/>
tion which we hold in the great communi-<br/>
ty of nations must be struck with the fact<br/>
that we have so managed our affairs as to<br/>
be almost entirely cut off from European<br/>
politics. Almost every nation in western<br/>
Europe is in arms, and no one can tell how<br/>
far their dimensions may spread, or what<br/>
may be the result of them in remodelling<br/>
the map of Europe; but to us in this coun-<br/>
try the whole quarrel is essentially matter<br/>
of indifference. Prussia is a far less pow-<br/>
erful country than England, but its influ-<br/>
ence in European affairs is probably quite<br/>
as great as our own, whilst that of France<br/>
is out of all comparison greater, and will<br/>
unquestionably continue to be so. On the<br/>
other hand, our influence in other parts of<br/>
the world is as much superior to that of<br/>
France as it is inferior on the continent of<br/>
Europe. We form the centre of four great<br/>
nations which soon will be British,<br/>
North America, South Africa, Australia,<br/>
and New Zealand, which derive from<br/>
their language, their laws, their literature,<br/>
their religion, in a word all that is distinc-<br/>
tive in their existence; and besides this,<br/>
we rule over a vast empire in India which<br/>
appears likely in the course of no very<br/>
long time to present a state of things al-<br/>
most unexampled in the modern history in<br/>
the world. If any one considers the rela-<br/>
tion of the United States to this system he<br/>
will perceive at once that it is so much<br/>
connected with it and resembles it so<br/>
closely as almost to form a part of it. It<br/>
is indeed distinguished from the British<br/>
empire only by the fact that it has already<br/>
that complete independence which our co-<br/>
lonies will most assuredly possess when<br/>
they are a little better able to stand on<br/>
their own legs, and which it ought to be<br/>
our highest hope to be able to confer with<br/>
safety upon British India. In the mean-<br/>
time, our relations with the United States<br/>
are actually closer than our relations with<br/>
any of our colonies. Our trade with them<br/>
is greater; they take a large number of<br/>
our emigrants, and they are the only civi-<br/>
lized Power in the world which is separa-<br/>
ted from our possessions by a mere geo-<br/>
graphical boundary. Add to all this the<br/>
fact that the principles on which they are<br/>
governed are nothing but the principles of<br/>
our own government applied on a larger<br/>
scale and to a somewhat different state of<br/>
society, and it becomes self-evident that<br/>
they are capable of doing us more harm<br/>
or more good than all the other nations of<br/>
the earth put together. If we cultivate<br/>
those relations with them which last for<br/>
the madness of George III. will never<br/>
have been disturbed at all, there is no<br/>
reason why a century hence the English<br/>
race, with local modifications, should not<br/>
be the predominant race of the world be-<br/>
yond all dispute or comparison. It would<br/>
indeed in that event constitute a new com-<br/>
munity of civilized States, much more ex-<br/>
tensive than Europe, at least as fertile in<br/>
all natural advantages, and possessed of<br/>
many other advantages peculiar to itself.<br/>
For instance, there are hardly any sub-<br/>
stantial grounds on which any of the Eng-<br/>
lands of the future, including, the United<br/>
States as one of the number, would have<br/>
occasion to quarrel. Human perversity<br/>
could hardly go to such a length as to pro-<br/>
duce war between Australia and South<br/>
Africa, or between Canada and New Zea-<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of course the possibility of so happy a<br/>
state of things is remote, but it is a possi-<br/>
bility, and is one of the many reasons why<br/>
we should consider the friendship of the<br/>
United States as even more essential to<br/>
our prosperity than that of France. Is<br/>
there anything to say on the other side?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The more the matter is considered, the<br/>
more clearly will the contrary appear.<br/>
There are small irritating subjects which<br/>
circumstances, be on doubt might so<br/>
treated as to prejudice at a [?] , but they<br/>
are of the most trifling kind. The ques-<br/>
tion, for instance, about the fishery rights<br/>
is certainly one of which people disposed<br/>
to quarrel might make something, but it—<br/>
like the other matters connected with the<br/>
late reciprocity treaty—is just one of those<br/>
questions which can be definitely settled<br/>
by treaty. It has none of that incurable<br/>
virulence which belongs to questions of<br/>
independence or territory. Look, again,<br/>
at the relations between the States and<br/>
Canada. We do not the least mean to ex-<br/>
aggerate what, after all, is a very natu-<br/>
ral act on the part of the Americans, and<br/>
one which they were likely enough to hav<br/>
done simply for the comfort and decency<br/>
of their own frontier, and without any<br/>
particular regard for us ; but the relations<br/>
between the two States are as a whole<br/>
eminently satisfactory, and they are so<br/>
mainly because the political institutions<br/>
which prevail on each side of the line are<br/>
very unlikely to dispose those who live un-<br/>
der them to fall out with each other. Free<br/>
trade is not after all the only conceivable<br/>
bond between different nations. Identity<br/>
of race, substantial identity of government<br/>
for British North America is in all, but the<br/>
name a republic—and a mutual interest<br/>
in all that constitutes the real welfare of<br/>
the other, are the ties which unite the<br/>
United States with the British provinces;<br/>
nor do we see why anything except indis-<br/>
cretion at home should ever interrupt<br/>
them. If what we have seen is intrinsi-<br/>
cally a small matter, it will at least serve<br/>
to contradict the notion that sympathy<br/>
with violence, revolution, filibustering and<br/>
the like, is characteristic of the Americans.<br/>
We believe this to be an entire mistake.<br/>
These and other bad things were the cha-<br/>
racteristic vices of the slaveholding popu-<br/>
lation ; but now that slavery and its atten-<br/>
dant evils are at an end, we doubt if there<br/>
is to be found in the world a nation more<br/>
disposed to be orderly and in the good<br/>
sense of the word, Conservative.—-THE<br/>
FRIEND OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Another Anglo.Indian Gov-
ernor of Jamaica.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The appointment of Sir John Peter<br/>
Grant as Governor of, Jamaica is one<br/>
which will give pleasure to Anglo-In-<br/>
dians. The ability of the wisest council-<br/>
lor of Lord Dalhousie, though the blin-<br/>
dest adviser of Lord Canning, we have<br/>
always admitted, and his high sense of<br/>
honour has never, except for a moment<br/>
in the Nil Durpul dispute, been called<br/>
in question. He did much to hasten the<br/>
destruction of that evil Indigo system<br/>
which was fast perishing from its own<br/>
rottenness, though he did it in an un-<br/>
statesmanlike way. But the experience<br/>
of questions of capital and labour, and<br/>
of class contending with class, which he<br/>
then gained at so dear a price, modified<br/>
by his subsequent obscurity and undig-<br/>
nified connexion with a Hotel Company,<br/>
will be of great advantage in an Island<br/>
like Jamaica. Like Sir Charles Trevel-<br/>
yan he has another chance. Will he use<br/>
it to complete the work which that far<br/>
greater Bengal civilian, Lord Metcalfe,<br/>
began? If so his undoubted firmness<br/>
and "pluck," which none have more ful-<br/>
ly acknowledged than the many enemies<br/>
he made in India, must be so directed by<br/>
tact and compromise in little things, that<br/>
he may prove not unworthy to walk in<br/>
the footsteps of him of whom, after a<br/>
very similar revolution, Lord Macaulay<br/>
wrote in his epitaph—-Lord Metcalfe<br/>
"calmed the evil passions which long<br/>
suffering had engendered in one class and<br/>
long domination in another."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lord Metcalfe was Governor of Agra<br/>
and acting Governor General. Sir J. P.<br/>
Grant for five years ruled forty millions<br/>
in Bengal, as subordinate to Lord Can-<br/>
ning, and distinguished himself by a<br/>
great policy of public works which his<br/>
successor has failed to carry out. Com-<br/>
pared with such responsibility Jamaica<br/>
seems a trifling charge. Its 6,400 square<br/>
miles and 142,000 of population, of<br/>
whom not 14,000 are white, would be ab-<br/>
sorbed in the one rich county of Hoogh-<br/>
ly. The Governor will draw just one-<br/>
half of his Bengal salary and in a climate<br/>
certainly not superior to that of India.<br/>
But such is the ignorance of England,<br/>
such its want of political perspective,<br/>
that in Jamaica Sir J. P. Grant will hold<br/>
a higher position than when he ruled a<br/>
country and a people as large as that of<br/>
France. Under the new constitution<br/>
Jamaica is to be administered exactly<br/>
like Ceylon, by a despotism which strives<br/>
to be in accord with public opinion. For<br/>
such a duty Sir J. P. Grant's experience<br/>
admirably fits him, and there is not an<br/>
Anglo-Indian who will not hope that he<br/>
will meet with more success as a Govern-<br/>
or of a Colony than a recent Governor of<br/>
a Colony met with during a five years'<br/>
tenure of office in an Indian Presidency
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thoughts by the Way
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONVICTION is consciousness of GUILT.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notice not the fact that you are not<br/>
noticed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ALL of every human being centres<br/>
in his self.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That which a man desires most may<br/>
be the thing he needs least.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Heaven may be defined PERFECT OBEDI-<br/>
ENCE to the divine LAW.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not the LAW of God, but the<br/>
violation of it, that causes MISERY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lose not what you might do by dwel-<br/>
ling upon what you HAVE done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who in blessing others forgets HIM-<br/>
SELF will never be forgotten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the waves of self-indulgence,<br/>
each individual steers his own barque.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not a few who have LAUGHED them-<br/>
selves into sin have WEPT themselves out.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the journey of life, he who over-<br/>
loads himself with BAGGAGE will sigh by<br/>
the way.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
September 20th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Government Responsibility
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There appears so be an apparent<br/>
want of information on the part of the<br/>
Siamese Government in regard to their<br/>
duties and responsibilities in connec-<br/>
tion with the several treaties entered<br/>
into with foreign powers. They are<br/>
keen sighted enough to see every ad-<br/>
vantage likely to arise from the trea-<br/>
ties, and display much tact and talent<br/>
in evading responsibilities and turn-<br/>
ing matters to their own account.<br/>
This mode of conducting affairs will<br/>
sometimes work tolerably well for a<br/>
time, but will in the end involve the<br/>
government in difficulties from which<br/>
it will be extremely difficult, if not<br/>
impossible to extricate themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A foreign merchant on entering the<br/>
kingdom of Siam with the intention<br/>
of establishing himself in business,<br/>
naturally inquires whether he can do<br/>
so with a reasonable prospect of pro-<br/>
tection and security or not. Mere<br/>
verbal assurances will not satisfy a<br/>
prudent man; he must have some<br/>
written, tangible, and legally authori-<br/>
sed assurance before he will consent<br/>
to take up his residence, and bring in<br/>
the requisite capital to conduct his<br/>
business. To satisfy himself on this<br/>
point, he has but to refer to the seve-<br/>
ral treaties which the Government of<br/>
Siam has entered into with foreign<br/>
powers. If he is an Englishman, he<br/>
does not have to search long to ascer-<br/>
tain the obligations of the Siamese<br/>
government to resident British sub-<br/>
jects. The 1st Article after giving as-<br/>
surances of peace and friendship, sti-<br/>
pulates in the strongest manner, that<br/>
"all British subjects coming to Siam<br/>
shall recrive from the Siamese Gov-<br/>
ernment full protection and assistance<br/>
to enable them to reside in Siam in<br/>
all security, and trade with every fa-<br/>
cility, free from oppression or inju-<br/>
ry on the part of the Siamese."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The language used in the first Ar-<br/>
ticle of the English treaty is certainly<br/>
comprehensive, broad and strong<br/>
enough to warrant the belief that the<br/>
Siamese government are under the<br/>
strongest obligations to give "com-<br/>
plete protection and assistance" to<br/>
British subjects residing in the coun-<br/>
try. The only remaining question that<br/>
would excite any further inquiry would!<br/>
be, as to the ability of the Siamese<br/>
government to carry out these obliga-<br/>
tions. On this point there need be<br/>
no apprehension. The Throne of Siam<br/>
is well established. The legitimate<br/>
right of the present reigning royal fa-<br/>
mily to govern the kingdom admits<br/>
of no doubt. The officers and peo-<br/>
ple are content to live under it. The<br/>
country is productive, and the inhabi-<br/>
tants are sufficiently numerous and<br/>
industrious to secure a good revenue.<br/>
Although the revenue laws and cus-<br/>
toms are not very good, they yield<br/>
ample means to carry on a strong and<br/>
efficient government. The army, forts<br/>
and armaments, though not numerous<br/>
can be easily increased. With all these<br/>
facilities and means at their disposal,<br/>
any want of ability or efficiency on<br/>
the part of the Siamese government<br/>
to carry out their treaty obligations,<br/>
is their own fault.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now what are the facts in regard to<br/>
resident foreigners in Siam, and how<br/>
has the government acted toward<br/>
them? At the commencement of the<br/>
trade under the treaties, foreign resi-<br/>
dents under the circumstances which<br/>
then existed were well protected. Both<br/>
natives and foreigners thought more of<br/>
the profits of a tolerable fair mode of<br/>
trading with each other than any thing<br/>
else. A variety of causes arose to<br/>
diminish the profits of trade; sharper<br/>
bargains were driven; over-reaching,<br/>
peculation, and questionable modes of<br/>
transacting business arose, in which<br/>
foreigners sometimes got the advan-<br/>
tage and at other times the natives.<br/>
Violation of agreements, bargains, sel-<br/>
ling goods under false pretences, theft<br/>
and robbery followed, and, as a mat-<br/>
ter of course, resulted in law suits and<br/>
developed Siamese jurisprudence,<br/>
courts, and judges, in no very envis-<br/>
ible light. According to Siamese<br/>
usages some complaints had to be<br/>
transmitted to the Foreign Office,<br/>
some to the Lord Mayor and others<br/>
to the Chief of Police. This mode of<br/>
distributing suits for adjudication did<br/>
not meet the views of the Consuls, sa-<br/>
tisfy treaty obligations, nor the de-<br/>
mands of justice. To follow up com-<br/>
plaints in the different courts, and see<br/>
that the ends of justice were carried<br/>
out was impossible; and to the praise<br/>
of the Siamese government be it spo-<br/>
ken, they appreciated the responsibi-<br/>
lity of their treaty relations sufficient<br/>
to establish a special court for the<br/>
purpose under the title of the Roy-<br/>
al Court of Equity. While this<br/>
court has not met the expectations of<br/>
the Treaty Powers, it is a step in the<br/>
right direction, and if the Siamese<br/>
government could be made to see their<br/>
treaty obligations in a proper light,<br/>
and appoint an able jurist as judge to<br/>
assist their own—one acquainted with<br/>
the language, laws, precedents and<br/>
usages of European Courts, and pro-<br/>
vide the necessary facilities for carry-<br/>
ing out the demands of justice, their<br/>
obligations in this respect would be<br/>
met. Sooner or later it must come<br/>
to this.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The old mode of guarding property<br/>
was found inadequate, and in order to<br/>
give better protection and fulfil in<br/>
some measure their treaty obligations<br/>
in this respect, a police force was or-<br/>
ganized and stationed in the city, but<br/>
too far up to give any particular se-<br/>
curity to foreigners. The protection<br/>
and benefit growing out of the police<br/>
force has been almost exclusively on<br/>
the side of the Siamese. It is what<br/>
the Siamese government should have<br/>
had, even if no treaties had ever been<br/>
made with foreign powers. The pre-<br/>
sent police force is utterly inadequate<br/>
to meet the demands of either the na-<br/>
tives or foreigners. Up to the pres-<br/>
ent time there is no government police<br/>
to protect foreign dwellings, stores,<br/>
warehouses and manufacturing esta-<br/>
blishments. Nearly every foreigner,<br/>
whether a temporary or permanent<br/>
resident, laborer, mechanic, mariner,<br/>
merchant, or Consul, has to provide<br/>
to a great extent, if not wholly for<br/>
his own security and protection. The<br/>
cost to merchants and resident for-<br/>
eigners for watchmen and other means<br/>
of protection is very great. But lit-<br/>
tle complaint has hitherto been made<br/>
on account of the want of a police<br/>
force to render better protection, and<br/>
the Siamese government seems to<br/>
have gone to sleep over the subject.<br/>
They seem to have forgotten those<br/>
maxims of prudence which lead wise<br/>
men to prepare for storms in times of<br/>
calms, and wars in times of peace.<br/>
The Buddhist command ya lak sap,<br/>
"do not steal," nor the awfully severe<br/>
laws of the kingdom against theft and<br/>
robbery, has very little power in pre-<br/>
venting them. The amount of pro-<br/>
perty lost by foreigners on account of<br/>
pilfering, theft, and robbery is im-<br/>
mense. As near as can be ascertain-<br/>
ed not more than one fourth of them<br/>
are complained of to the Siamese Au-<br/>
thorities. The loss of time, vexation<br/>
and difficulties attendant on obtaining<br/>
justice in most cases is so great, that<br/>
foreigners are deterred from making<br/>
any attempt to secure redress.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The question arises what are the<br/>
responsibilities of the Siamese Govern-<br/>
ment in relation to theft and robbery?<br/>
The treaties are explicit and emphatic<br/>
on this subjects, declaring that all for-<br/>
eigners "coming to Siam shall re-<br/>
ceive from the Siamese Government<br/>
full protection and assistance to en-<br/>
able them to reside in Siamese in all<br/>
security, and trade with every facility,<br/>
free from oppresson on the part of the<br/>
Siamese." This stipulation cannot be<br/>
limited to mean only personal pro-<br/>
tection; for what advantage would it<br/>
be to any one to be treated kindly<br/>
and protected from bodily harm when<br/>
at the same time all their property<br/>
can be taken from them. It must<br/>
mean both person and property, and<br/>
all legitimate interests growing out of<br/>
them. A foreigner on arrying in<br/>
Siam with the intention of becoming<br/>
a resident, is bound to secure a suita-<br/>
ble dwelling, store or ware-house, one<br/>
that will give him ordinary security<br/>
to his person and property. He must<br/>
also exercise due care and watchful-<br/>
ness, and when this has been done,<br/>
and his person or property suffer in-<br/>
jury or loss, he must look to the law<br/>
for redress. Suppose the following<br/>
should occur. A merchant es-<br/>
tablishes himself in Bangkok, occu-<br/>
pies a substantial building, has it filled<br/>
with valaaable goods, fastens the doors<br/>
and windows properly, has watchmen<br/>
or some equivalent mode to guard his<br/>
property, but with all his care the<br/>
building is entered by thieves and<br/>
robbers and his goods are stolen.<br/>
Under the existing treaties what is to<br/>
be done? Who is responsible? The<br/>
first step is to enter complaint and<br/>
send it to the proper Siamese Court.<br/>
If the court catches the thieves or rob-<br/>
bers, punishes them and returns the<br/>
goods or an equivalent with costs, that<br/>
ends the matter. If only a part are<br/>
caught and a portion only of the pro-<br/>
perty can be secured, the question na-<br/>
turally comes up, who is responsible<br/>
for the loss ? There are now only two<br/>
parties on whom the loss can fall; the<br/>
merchant and the government. The<br/>
merchant will of course demand in-<br/>
demnification. Now can the Siamese<br/>
government get rid of it? If the Si-<br/>
amese Authorities can show that the<br/>
government has fulfilled the spirit and<br/>
letter of the treaty touching this ques-<br/>
tion, they can. But if the Siamese<br/>
government has neglected to provide<br/>
suitable police or other protection, or<br/>
the court, judges, and officers have<br/>
been unfaithful, they must make the<br/>
loss good. This matter will be trea-<br/>
ted in the same way as in the case of<br/>
a man who allows or invites a person<br/>
to reside in his house under an agree-<br/>
ment of protection. If on the arrival<br/>
of the person, his house is not secure,<br/>
it is his business to make it so. Any<br/>
loss arising on account of the owners<br/>
neglect to provide against it, he can<br/>
and must be made to make it good.<br/>
A law of the house forbidding theft<br/>
and robbery under severe penalties<br/>
will not exonerate the owner. Most<br/>
foreigners have been too easy and neg-<br/>
ligent in this matter of Government<br/>
responsibility, and a few cases carried<br/>
out by way of example would settle<br/>
the affair and do good.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cremation Ceremonies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cremation ceremonies of the<br/>
late PHYA MONTHRE SEREE-WONG were<br/>
brought to a close this P. M. by ap-<br/>
plying the torch to the funeral pyre<br/>
The body had been lying in state at<br/>
his late residence since his decease<br/>
which took place 11th of June. On the<br/>
morning of the 18th inst. it was conveyed<br/>
in procession, from the late residence to<br/>
the building which had been erected<br/>
expressly for the occasion, and placed<br/>
in position upon the funeral pyre.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This ceremony, which the Siamese<br/>
call chack sop, was conducted by His<br/>
Majesty the king in person, who came<br/>
to the place, accompanied by part of<br/>
the Royal family expressly for this<br/>
purpose. This funeral pyre consisted<br/>
of a square platform at the base about<br/>
eight feet from the ground, and rising<br/>
in the shape of a pyramid to the<br/>
hight of about fifteen feet to the apex,<br/>
upon which the body was placed in a<br/>
in a beautifully gilded urn. This was<br/>
inclosed by a white canopy rising to<br/>
a dome over the pyramidal pyre, and<br/>
having wide entrances to the centre,<br/>
on the four sides, corresponding to<br/>
the four points of the compass.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the east and west sides of the<br/>
Mane, were platforms erected for the<br/>
theatricals. The one on the west side<br/>
was a Siamese lakon. The scenery<br/>
in the back-ground on this stage was<br/>
quite romantic, representing huge,<br/>
rough rocks piled up in wild grandeur,<br/>
having various little crevices and<br/>
miniature caverns, and covered in<br/>
many places with wild, romantic fol-<br/>
liage. The one on the east was a Chin-<br/>
ese ngew, which seemed to consist<br/>
chiefly in beating gongs, sticks and<br/>
other nameless instrument of music<br/>
making “night,”-—as well as day—-<br/>
“hideous” with their jargon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the south side of the Mane<br/>
were a dozen or more booths, erected<br/>
principally for the accommodation of<br/>
the family and friends of the deceased.<br/>
In one of these was a nice dining hall,<br/>
covered with a carpet, and supplied<br/>
with chairs and tables, where, at all<br/>
hours of the day, food and refresh-<br/>
ments were neatly served to all visi-<br/>
tors. Every thing about the Mane<br/>
was tastefully arranged 'a la Siamese<br/>
and there seemed to be but one thing<br/>
that was an annoyance, and that was the<br/>
great quantity of mud surrounding<br/>
the premises. This, of course, was<br/>
unavoidable, and was owing to the<br/>
heavy rains that fell during the occa-<br/>
sion. The immense crowd of natives<br/>
constantly moving to and fro had so<br/>
trodden the ground, softened with fre-<br/>
quent rains, that it became like a lake<br/>
of thin mortar, through which the<br/>
natives waded as indifferently and<br/>
contentedly as if it was their native<br/>
element.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was amusing to see the crowd<br/>
scrambling after the lines containing<br/>
money in this lake of mortar. It<br/>
was delightful to watch them from a<br/>
distance; but this part of the sport<br/>
became very annoying to the Euro-<br/>
peans visitors on returning to their<br/>
boats the evening after the burning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The excited crowd, all covered with<br/>
black, filthy slime, very much after<br/>
the fashion of the swine that were<br/>
wallowing in the mire, came rushing<br/>
along the dry walk that led to the<br/>
landing, and, regardless of all manners<br/>
or decency, dashed against every per-<br/>
son who came in their way, bearing<br/>
the finest silks and satins of the<br/>
ladies as well as the the spotless linen<br/>
and glittering ensignia of Consular<br/>
dignity. This rudeness, while it was<br/>
an annoyance to the sufferers, gave<br/>
great pleasure and amusement to the<br/>
rabble.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Precisely at 5½ o'clock this p. m. the<br/>
torch was applied by His Majesty's<br/>
own hands, who was followed, in this<br/>
last ceremony of respect for the dead,<br/>
by some of the royal offspring, some<br/>
of the high priests of the city, the<br/>
family and relatives of the deceased<br/>
and others. In preparation for this<br/>
ceremony, the urn containing the body<br/>
is taken down from the summit of the<br/>
pyramidal pyre, the upper part of the<br/>
pyramid removed, bringing it down<br/>
on a level with a platform, where<br/>
the urn is placed upon several layers<br/>
of wood. Over this is a canopy or<br/>
ceiling made of thin layers of the<br/>
plantain tree supported by four up-<br/>
right posts. This covering, which is<br/>
incombustible, is designed to counter-<br/>
act the flame which rises up through<br/>
the urn from the ignited wood con-<br/>
suming the body. After the pile has<br/>
been lighted every one according to<br/>
his rank, ascends the steps and offers<br/>
his token of respect for the dead, by<br/>
casting into the flame his torch, or taper,<br/>
or wax-candle. This constant adding<br/>
fuel to the fire soon causes the flames<br/>
to arise. Should the fire become too<br/>
strong there are persons stationed<br/>
near whose business it is to dampen<br/>
it with water sufficient to keep the<br/>
flames within bounds.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The body of the late PRAYA APAI<br/>
SONGKRAM was also committed to the<br/>
flames upon this same funeral pyre.<br/>
He was a half brother of the late PRAYA<br/>
MONTREE SUBER-WONG, and died only<br/>
a few weeks after his brother. It is<br/>
sad to see how the hand of death has<br/>
been laid upon these two brothers in<br/>
the prime of life. The family, the<br/>
community, and the government deep-<br/>
ly feel the loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The custom of burning, with<br/>
the Siamese, is one that has been<br/>
handed down from time immemorial.<br/>
It makes a very fine show for visitors,<br/>
and a grand display of taste in arrange-<br/>
ment &c. but it must be a great bur-<br/>
den of expense to be borne by the<br/>
people and government. It would be<br/>
a great relief to the people if they<br/>
could be freed from such an oppres-<br/>
sive custom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are many noble-<br/>
man, now, who see the folly and dread<br/>
the labor of such a ceremony, but<br/>
dare not drop it because it is an old<br/>
custom. When will there be one<br/>
brave enough to face the storm of<br/>
ridicule, and introduce a new and less<br/>
burdensome custom?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siamese Funeral Services.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A funeral service always affecting,<br/>
is rendered much more so, when the<br/>
deceased is a father of a large family<br/>
who have always looked up to him for<br/>
support and protection. And this is<br/>
strikingly the case with Siamese no-<br/>
blemen whose wives and children may<br/>
be reckoned by tens and sometimes<br/>
scores. Such a scene we witnessed to-<br/>
day at the funeral of two Siamese no-<br/>
blemen, sons of the late Somdeteli Ong-<br/>
yai, the one titled Phya Montree Soo-<br/>
riwonga, own brother to His Excellen-<br/>
cy Chow Phya Kalahome Prime Minis-<br/>
ter, the other Phya Apai Songkram a<br/>
half brother. The weeks and months of<br/>
preparation for the cremation while<br/>
their bodies lay in state at their late<br/>
respective homes, had past. The great<br/>
white dome for a covering to the fu-<br/>
neral pyre and the many accompany-<br/>
ing buildings for the ceremonies, had<br/>
been completed. The splendid urn<br/>
for the one and rich coffin for the oth-<br/>
er had been on the summit of the high<br/>
pyramidal seat under the dome bril-<br/>
liantly and tastefully adorned with<br/>
fancy articles—-natural and artificial<br/>
flowers and fruits with festoons, wreaths<br/>
and garlands suspended from the dome’s<br/>
high ceiling, had been on exhibition full<br/>
three days. The exterior of the urn<br/>
with all its rich adornings, together<br/>
with the greater part of the upper sto-<br/>
ries of the splendid pyramid had been<br/>
removed, and a small pile of fire wood<br/>
neatly arranged had taken the place<br/>
thus vacated. The corpses thus dis-<br/>
robed of their glory had just before<br/>
our arrival been placed on the wood.<br/>
And the multitudes who had attended<br/>
the many exercises of preaching, pray-<br/>
ing, incantations, feasting, and theat-<br/>
ricals, were waiting in suspense for<br/>
His Majesty to come and ignite the fu-<br/>
neral pile which was now screened<br/>
from the public gaze.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Within the enclosure on two sides of<br/>
the dome were seated priests, princes,<br/>
noblemen &c. On another side were<br/>
the female mourners and friends, to-<br/>
gether with nearly all the European la-<br/>
dies residing in the city. On the fourth<br/>
side where His Majesty was to approach<br/>
the dome, were the European gentle-<br/>
men comprising mariners, merchants,<br/>
consuls, clergymen, etc. Without the<br/>
enclosure on all sides were vast mul-<br/>
titudes of both sexes and of all classes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The hour of 5 o'clock P. M. had now<br/>
arrived, which was the time appointed<br/>
for the ignition of the funeral pile.<br/>
Presently the royal heralds announced<br/>
the approach of the king by their trum-<br/>
pets and conch shells. All eyes were<br/>
consequently turned to the quarter at<br/>
which His Majesty was to enter, and<br/>
a few strains of “God save the King”<br/>
from the brass band introduced him<br/>
very quietly into the presence of the<br/>
dead, where he seated himself with a<br/>
large number of his children before<br/>
him or a dozen Buddhists priests ar-<br/>
ranged in a line sitting on a carpet.<br/>
These went through with certain re-<br/>
hearsals and incantations for the dead,<br/>
barely audible, but not to be under-<br/>
stood, while His Majesty poured sa-<br/>
cred water from a little teapot into a<br/>
basin, it being a symbol of blessings<br/>
craved for the departed spirits as well<br/>
as for all the remaining friends.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The screen which had hidden the<br/>
dismantling and humiliation of the<br/>
bodies on the wood was now drawn<br/>
aside. His Majesty then snapped an<br/>
instrument, peculiar to the Siamese,<br/>
which ignited a little powder, and<br/>
then a taper, which, the King, having<br/>
assembled the steps, applied to the fu-<br/>
neral pile. Immediately the nearest<br/>
mourners stepped up and placed each<br/>
his wax candle and sandal sticks un-<br/>
der the wood; and then the princes<br/>
and lords in rapid succession did the<br/>
same, until all order of rank was lost<br/>
in the desire to manifest the same re-<br/>
spect for the dead before the flames<br/>
should become too hot to admit of<br/>
approach. The fire increased with<br/>
unusual rapidity.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
There was no outburst of grief, but<br/>
manifestly silent, solemn weeping a-<br/>
mong some of the mourners. We<br/>
could not but weep with them when<br/>
we considered that they were weeping<br/>
without one ray of the glorious hopes<br/>
which the gospel affords to them who<br/>
believe in Him who is "the resurrec-<br/>
tion and the life".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty, having ignited the<br/>
pile, immediately retired to a royal<br/>
plappla or sala which had been made<br/>
and set apart for his own exclusive<br/>
occupation, and gave gifts of silver<br/>
and gold to his princes officials<br/>
and others. Before this was com-<br/>
pleted we directed our steps home-<br/>
ward as it was getting late, wish-<br/>
ing to become disengaged from the<br/>
immense crowd before it broke up and<br/>
to breathe a pure air once more on the<br/>
noble Menam. We have only inten-<br/>
ded to give a birdseye view of what<br/>
we saw, leaving a more full discrip-<br/>
tion to an abler pen.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Murder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the last issue of our Siamese<br/>
Recorder we published a strongly at-<br/>
tested report of murder which occur-<br/>
red at temple Sankachai in this city<br/>
early in the month of last May. The<br/>
matter had been so hushed up that the<br/>
foreign community had heard nothing<br/>
of it. The circumstances of the case<br/>
as reported were briefly, that a pupil<br/>
of Pranookrom a head priest at tem-<br/>
ple Sanchahai was charged with steal-<br/>
ing a salver and watch from priest<br/>
Doonng. The latter caught pupil Daang<br/>
and had a hard struggle with him for<br/>
the purpose of binding him. And<br/>
while engaged in the tussle in the<br/>
darkness of night about 8 o'clock p. m.<br/>
Daang drew a sailors knife and stab-<br/>
bed the priest in the side who fell<br/>
dead on the spot. The murderer was<br/>
arrested and his case tried by judge<br/>
Koon Klang. The culprit confessed<br/>
his guilt in the matter and informed<br/>
against another fellow pupil as being<br/>
an accomplice with him in the act.<br/>
Daang was kept in close confinement<br/>
with fetters in the day time and was put<br/>
in stocks at night. But Pran the accom-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
pliœ was not put in confinement at<br/>
all. Doonng was on the eve of being<br/>
sent to the state's prison, when Pra-<br/>
nookrom the chief priest of the tem-<br/>
ple prevailed upon the judge by a<br/>
bribe of 120 ticals to withhold the<br/>
culprit from prison. Consequently the<br/>
fetters were taken from the ankles,<br/>
leaving the iron anklets on, just enough<br/>
to make believe he was still in some<br/>
sense a prisoner. He spent the most<br/>
of his time with priest Pranookrom<br/>
and a small portion of it with the<br/>
judge. As to the accomplice P'an, he<br/>
escaped entirely by paying the judge<br/>
Koon Klang 40 ticals and his keeper<br/>
20 ticals, and this money is said to<br/>
have been provided by priest Pranoo-<br/>
krom. These bribes being paid, the<br/>
judge said he would stay proceedings,<br/>
and that Phya Booroot would inter-<br/>
cede for the criminals and secure their<br/>
discharge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears from the report, that<br/>
these two rascals with two associates<br/>
had long before been in the habit of<br/>
robbing orchards, and of stealing<br/>
goods from the boats of the natives<br/>
in the canal Bangkok-yai between the<br/>
temples Hachasit and Moolecloke<br/>
while moored at night time waiting<br/>
for favoring tides—that they would<br/>
pretend to be fishing for prawns—and<br/>
wading in the water by the side of<br/>
the boats, would steal any thing they<br/>
could lay there hands on. For such<br/>
conduct they were twice on the eve<br/>
of being complained of to the authori-<br/>
ties, but the proceedings were in both<br/>
instances stayed by the influence of<br/>
priest Pranookrom. It is said that<br/>
at one time he did it by a bribe of 20<br/>
ticals and at another time by 28 ticals.<br/>
Twice they were on the point of being<br/>
reported to the king, but the influence<br/>
of priest Pranookrom prevented it.<br/>
Such it is said is a brief history of<br/>
the two scoundrels before they mur-<br/>
dered priest Dooang. And seeing<br/>
that they were in all probability to be<br/>
let loose upon the community as be-<br/>
fore, a number of the neighbors deter-<br/>
mined they would report them in the<br/>
Siamope paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
His Siamese Majesty's Gun-boat<br/>
“Impregnable” returned yesterday<br/>
from a cruising trip in the Gulf where<br/>
she had been several weeks looking<br/>
out for piratical vessels. We presume<br/>
Capt. Walroad has had no engage-<br/>
ment with pirates or any thing of par-<br/>
ticular interest to report, or we should<br/>
have heard something about it. The<br/>
influence of the Impregnable cruising<br/>
up and down the Gulf must be good<br/>
in protecting country trading vessels<br/>
and others, though she never find oc-<br/>
casion to throw a shot at a pirate.<br/>
And we are glad to learn that she is<br/>
to be continued in the same useful<br/>
service, and hope that we shall never<br/>
have occasion to report that she ever<br/>
dodges a piratical craft.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEATHER.—-The nights for the<br/>
most part since our last issue have<br/>
been remarkably rainy and the days<br/>
cloudy and drizzling. The great cre-<br/>
mation ceremonies that have been<br/>
held within that time in this city have<br/>
consequently been robbed of much of<br/>
their splendor. No one seems to have<br/>
any doubt that a bountiful harvest of<br/>
rice is to reaped at the end of this<br/>
wet season.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Second King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER III.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The position of Second King in our<br/>
view seems of little consequence. It<br/>
has little executive power yet the very<br/>
freedom from active service gives time<br/>
and opportunity for discipline, study<br/>
practice, making a reserve power for<br/>
an exigency. The Second King just<br/>
passed away has added much to the<br/>
dignity, respect and power of the pre-<br/>
sent reign. He commanded honor<br/>
abroad and respect and fear at home.<br/>
Every one felt that power was cen-<br/>
tered in him adequate to an exigency<br/>
and this belief gave stability to the<br/>
reigning king. Such will always be the<br/>
effect of the office of the Second King<br/>
when well sustained. During the fif-<br/>
teen years of the present reign there<br/>
has not been one serious misunder-<br/>
standing between the two kings. All<br/>
has moved on with distinguished har-<br/>
mony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It should be the policy of the coun-<br/>
try to give to the Second King every<br/>
facility for discipline and progress as<br/>
a reserve power. The last reign has<br/>
stood very high in this respect, and if<br/>
it had stood as high morally as politi-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
cally it would have a high place in the<br/>
annals of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While the king was a great lover<br/>
of European arts he did not seem in-<br/>
clined to centre his hopes of heaven<br/>
in the God which the European recog-<br/>
nizes as the one, only living and true.<br/>
There seems a great gulf between an<br/>
eastern king and christianity. As I<br/>
told the king during his last days, of<br/>
the support and comfort of the chris-<br/>
tian hope, I felt more than ever<br/>
how difficult for an eastern king to<br/>
accept of its truths.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"How hardly shall a rich man," says<br/>
the scriptures. But with an eastern<br/>
king it is the upturning of all the cus-<br/>
toms that gives him influence, and se-<br/>
curity, and external importance. Let<br/>
him accept Christianity, and all the im-<br/>
portant officers in his house-hold<br/>
have no longer ties to secure their fidel-<br/>
ity. Polygamy must be given up, and<br/>
the daughters of the nobles of the<br/>
land can no longer be with him, hold-<br/>
ing a relation that makes them hos-<br/>
tages identifying the hopes and inte-<br/>
rests of the nobles with the king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What! shall a king accept Christiani-<br/>
ty and acknowledge as a consequence,<br/>
that not one, perhaps of his great fami-<br/>
ly of children have an honorable<br/>
name-—that not one of the great cir-<br/>
cle that have been truest and best to<br/>
him have a claim to virtue? His hon-<br/>
or and the honor of his household are<br/>
a great wall of partition between him<br/>
and christianity. A new king with a<br/>
new basis and new customs, might<br/>
make the acceptance of that religion<br/>
as ye which now severs the relations,<br/>
which give seeming security in life,<br/>
and rivet connections that will secure<br/>
lasting memory when they are dead.<br/>
But shall an old king cling to his<br/>
customs and lose his sons? "What is a<br/>
man profited if he gain the whole<br/>
world and loose his own soul, or what<br/>
shall a man give in exchange for his<br/>
soul?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What king shall accept the God<br/>
which the West worship and prove, as is<br/>
really true, that while the arts of the<br/>
West are unrivalled, their God is the<br/>
only God, and their religion the one<br/>
true and the only sure basis of a pros-<br/>
perous government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
State Liberality in Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those who know any thing of this<br/>
country—-and who in these days has not<br/>
heard of it?—-are accustomed to regard<br/>
it as one possessed of the most liberal<br/>
views and institutions, among the native<br/>
states of Asia—-we may add, proverbially<br/>
so. And this trait, it is pleasing to find,<br/>
is becoming almost daily more and more<br/>
developed, under the enlightened system<br/>
of its present government. Nor is it say-<br/>
ing too much to pronounce it an exam-<br/>
plar o' Asia: rule altogether; and speak-<br/>
ing of it markedly, to say that there is<br/>
but one Siam on the map of the world.<br/>
The deduction from reflection is, the<br/>
wish that we had more countries with a<br/>
similar degree of civilized enlightenment<br/>
and liberality. Considering our proximity<br/>
to the model state, and the prospect of<br/>
an increased connection with it, in early<br/>
course of events, it must naturally com-<br/>
mand an interest in British Burmah, which<br/>
we hope no circumstance will arise to<br/>
lessen-—a change of rule being the only<br/>
thing to be apprehended. These remarks<br/>
have been induced by reading of the<br/>
erection, near Bangkok, under the King's<br/>
auspices, of a convenient and comforta-<br/>
ble retreat for "the European commun-<br/>
ity who may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their health."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such spontaneous thoughtfulness on the<br/>
monarch's part, for the European pro-<br/>
moters of the trade of his country, carries<br/>
its own comment, and will ensure a suit-<br/>
able appreciation from every right-think-<br/>
ing European, in any part of the world,<br/>
who becomes aware of the kindly fact,<br/>
and who can at all calculate the sterling<br/>
value of such an arrangement in a trop-<br/>
ical country.—-MAULMAIN ADVERTISER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Priests and Idols of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Like priests, like people," is an<br/>
old adage. The priests of Siam are a<br/>
class that uniformly appear what they<br/>
are not. They take the manner of<br/>
sanctimony, while all mischief is still<br/>
rank in their heart. Their conversion<br/>
is confined to their clothes. These<br/>
must be yellow when they enter the<br/>
priesthood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The priests get their living without<br/>
rendering an equivalent for their food,<br/>
or clothing, or dwellings; and they<br/>
have the very best the country affords<br/>
in all these respects, except idols. For<br/>
the idols are selected the very best<br/>
locations in the country. All the<br/>
taste the country can command is<br/>
combined in laying out, arranging and<br/>
ornamenting grounds, and then in<br/>
erecting substantial, stately buildings,<br/>
and fitting them up after the most ap-<br/>
proved standard of taste for the idols.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This latter habit may have some<br/>
sense in it. For while images of wood<br/>
and stone cannot appreciate beauty,<br/>
they can no more deface it. So these<br/>
beautiful temple grounds are inoffen-<br/>
sive to the most fastidious, while all<br/>
living habitations are besmeared and<br/>
polluted with varieties of filth, and<br/>
thus most obnoxious to all sensitive<br/>
organs. In the pictures of Siamese<br/>
temples and their accompanying build-<br/>
ings, you will notice large brick ed-<br/>
ifices, surrounded by other smaller<br/>
buildings. These are devoted to the<br/>
idols, great and small, arranged as<br/>
fancy or custom may dictate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The priests live in the suburbs of<br/>
the-temples, if I may so speak. They<br/>
live in these buildings in a sort of<br/>
club, as convenience dictates. They<br/>
live, I say; it is not boarding, as at our<br/>
institutions at home, but boarding<br/>
themselves and begging their rice day<br/>
by day the whole year round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gong or bell calls them up early<br/>
in the morning; not, as at home, to<br/>
give the best hours of the day to study,<br/>
but to go forth with a sanctimonious<br/>
face and a dish, and in the highways<br/>
receive from seekers after merit a<br/>
portion of food, cooked and assorted,<br/>
that shall serve them for the day. So<br/>
the morning passes in begging their<br/>
bread from house to house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Breakfast over, they read a little,<br/>
teach a little in a most slack, inefficient<br/>
way, to little purpose and with little<br/>
consecutiveness. Interruption is the<br/>
order of the day in Siam. The holi-<br/>
days are without number, and he that<br/>
would pursue a given plan for a single<br/>
month, must make up his mind for a<br/>
struggle, if he carry it out in any<br/>
department whatever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The priests can have but little time<br/>
after breakfast, at any rate; for dinner<br/>
comes at eleven o'clock, and then the<br/>
eating for the day is finished, if I ex-<br/>
cept tea and any little drinking diet.<br/>
Most of the long morning is spent in<br/>
begging food and eating it; and when<br/>
this is well over, in the heat of the day<br/>
they can do little but sleep and idle<br/>
away the time. The cool of the eve-<br/>
ning is a fine time for recreation and<br/>
visiting. Morning and evening they<br/>
repeat Bali prayers, and the learning<br/>
of these is almost the only hard dis-<br/>
cipline for the intellect in the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The priests have duties abroad at<br/>
funerals, weddings, and on holiday<br/>
occasions. At these places they go in<br/>
companies, and only confound with<br/>
their jargon, doing no good to the soul,<br/>
and draining the good things of those<br/>
who entertain them, to no purpose.<br/>
They feast upon the luxuries of their<br/>
entertainers, but give in return husks<br/>
for the soul. Even when the priests<br/>
really preach, their preaching is but an<br/>
idle tale, at best, cold morality. There<br/>
is nothing in all the teaching of the<br/>
country that stirs up the spirit for<br/>
greater and better things.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We long for a radical reform in<br/>
these heathen temples. We would<br/>
have the idols demolished, and the holy<br/>
Bible put into the hand of every priest<br/>
and pupil. We would have study<br/>
take the place of food-hunting, and<br/>
leave this department to other hands.<br/>
We would have good books, made<br/>
and translated, and all the temples<br/>
furnished with them, and the priests<br/>
well paid for teaching, and looked af-<br/>
ter by vigilant committees, to see that<br/>
their work was well done; that the<br/>
vigilant and effective were promoted,<br/>
and the negligent and inefficient re-<br/>
proved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Something must be done, and done<br/>
immediately for this people, or the<br/>
riches that are pouring in upon them<br/>
as the result of their treaties with the<br/>
western nations, will be their ruin by<br/>
giving them increased means for dis-<br/>
sipation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am now on a visit to Petchaburi,<br/>
a pet town of the king, where he for<br/>
the past few years has often had a<br/>
thousand men at work on a mountain,<br/>
building a country palace, with the<br/>
et ceteras to make a visit to this town<br/>
delightful. He usually comes twice<br/>
in the year.—Money here is being<br/>
turned comparatively to good account.<br/>
It is being made to afford rational<br/>
pleasure at any rate. There is a fine<br/>
road to the mountains, and carriages<br/>
and horses for morning and evening<br/>
rides, which cannot yet be said of<br/>
even the capital of the country.<br/>
The Vice Governor was of the em-<br/>
bassy to England, and believes in inter-<br/>
nal improvements. He is actually<br/>
laying the foundation for a college at<br/>
Petchaberi, where he says he designs<br/>
to give the teachers salaries, and re-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ceive tuition of the pupils. And he<br/>
proposes to prove to parents that it<br/>
will be more efficient, and cheaper ev-<br/>
en, than giving their children to serve<br/>
the priests to be taught to read and<br/>
write. I am afraid even the Vice<br/>
Governor of Petchaburi will not change<br/>
the customs immediately. I found<br/>
him, at any rate, feeding the priests<br/>
most zealously this morning There<br/>
are a hundred "Wats" in Petchaburi,<br/>
and priests in proportion. What a<br/>
great work, if these one hundred wats<br/>
could be made seminaries, to teach<br/>
the true religion and sound learning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Macedonian, 1864.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[*That noble purpose of the Vice Gov-<br/>
ernor's, long talked about with lively hopes<br/>
of success, we are sorry to say appears to<br/>
have come to naught. It could not have<br/>
been for the want of a good offer from<br/>
abroad to furnish a superintendent teach-<br/>
er and on quite reasonable terms, for such<br/>
an offer he had at the beginning of the<br/>
present year. We suspect that the true<br/>
reason will be found to have sprung up and<br/>
become strong in the fear felt by Buddhists<br/>
generally, and even published in our Siam-<br/>
ese Recorder more than a year since from<br/>
the pen of one of their Champions that such<br/>
institutions under the teaching of men or<br/>
women from Christian lands would soon be-<br/>
come essentially Christian seminaries and<br/>
would not long hence convert all the land<br/>
to Christianity. Such a result the lead-<br/>
ers of Buddhism in Siam cannot contem-<br/>
plate with the least approbation.] Ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Siftings.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SEVEN PIRATES were executed in<br/>
two batches on Wednesday morning<br/>
and seemed fully conscious of the dis-<br/>
agreeable fate which had overtaken<br/>
them. On Tuesday Wogo Qui Fook<br/>
the murderer of Miss. Mervyn and her<br/>
child underwent the penalty of his<br/>
atrocious crime protesting with his<br/>
latest breath that he was only the ac-<br/>
cessary and that a friend had actually<br/>
done the deed. The cold blooded atro-<br/>
city of which make one wish that<br/>
English law permitted the infliction<br/>
of some more painful death than<br/>
hanging. CHIEK ATÁI the notorious<br/>
pirate leader has at length been caught.<br/>
He was identified in the most satis-<br/>
factory manner by the Captain of the<br/>
Cæsar and that his name will be ad-<br/>
ded to the list of those cut off by the<br/>
(now) stern arm of the law is more<br/>
than probable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GUNBOATS have not been idle<br/>
lately; two are now cruising and ano-<br/>
ther is ready to go out if required.<br/>
The Naval Authorities seem to be<br/>
really in earnest in their wish to give<br/>
all the help to suppress piracy they can.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
YELLOW FEVER—-A case is said<br/>
to have occurred within the last week<br/>
on the public roads, but no very seri-<br/>
ous alarm exists about the matter. It<br/>
was probably a case of aggravated<br/>
Hongkong fever if not the true vomi-<br/>
to prieto; there seems to be a remark-<br/>
able similarity between them, if in-<br/>
deed the former be not a mild type of<br/>
the latter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AT NEWCHWANG—-The U. S. Cor-<br/>
vette Wachusetts has been doing good<br/>
service. Her commander, setting at<br/>
nought the quills and foolscap of di-<br/>
plomatists, landed a body of men and<br/>
seized some 25 notorious scoundrels<br/>
of those parts, including their chief,<br/>
who had been implicated in the late<br/>
attack upon the American Consul.<br/>
They have been delivered into Chin-<br/>
ese custody and will we fancy be kept<br/>
securely, the authorities having found<br/>
out by this time the difference be-<br/>
tween English talks and American<br/>
dahlgrens, the latter having when<br/>
cause exists a violent way of talking<br/>
which renders household property in<br/>
the line covered by their muzzles an<br/>
undesirable investment. After all we<br/>
have heard and read of Newchwang—-<br/>
woodracks, authorities and populace<br/>
put together, we could pardon the<br/>
Wachusetts a “multitude of sins”<br/>
for such energetic action.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FROM PEKING we learn that there<br/>
has been a rising of the Poles in Sibe-<br/>
ria and that the Russian Government<br/>
has requested the Chinese to aid them<br/>
in preventing insurgents from crossing<br/>
the Mongolian Frontier. The Bear<br/>
asking help from the Dragon! This<br/>
is a new step in the way of admitting<br/>
China into the comity of nations which<br/>
will gratify our Peace Party most<br/>
thoroughly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LI FUTSI’s “ever defeated” train of<br/>
troops have been getting another<br/>
thrashing on the North bank of the<br/>
Yangtze. Their opponents this time<br/>
were a mob of peasantry who manag-<br/>
ed to “wipe out” about one third<br/>
and of them
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE AMERICANS have also some trouble<br/>
to settle with the Chinese authorities of<br/>
this province, and the “Wachussetts” is<br/>
expected to return in about a fortnight<br/>
to complete the arrangements for com-<br/>
pensation demanded by the United States<br/>
Government of the cowardly and sacreli-<br/>
gious conduct of the Chinese at Tung-<br/>
Chow-foo. The inhabitants assaulted the<br/>
American missionaries who have been<br/>
living there most peacefully for the last<br/>
five years and actually broke and defaced<br/>
the tombstones that had been erected to<br/>
the memory of some deceased brethren.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is to be hoped that they will receive a<br/>
salutary lesson for such conduct, and the<br/>
Commander of the “Wachussets” who<br/>
exhibited such firmness in settling matters<br/>
at Newchwang, will doubtless arrange<br/>
things here in a similar manner. Every<br/>
step taken by Western nations to vindicate<br/>
the liberty of action of their subjects in<br/>
this empire, is a step in advance for as-<br/>
similating the people of China to our<br/>
civilisation; and every foreigner in China<br/>
will reap the benefit of a perfect under-<br/>
standing being established that no Chinese<br/>
mandarin, of whatever grade he may be,<br/>
can insult the feelings of Europeans<br/>
without meeting the penalty of such mis-<br/>
conduct.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We subjoin the following statement of<br/>
Missionary labours in China from the<br/>
Missionary Directory of which we have<br/>
just received a copy and for which we<br/>
have to return our thanks to the compi-<br/>
ler:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Total in China.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Ordained Missionaries</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">97</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Lay Missionaries</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Missionary Ladies</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">93</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Whole number of Missionaries</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">204</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Number of Native Helpers</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">206</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Number of members received in 1865</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">282</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Whole number of Native Members</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3142</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Remarks.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The number of Missionaries given re-<br/>
presents, as near as possible, those on the<br/>
field, June 15th 1866. The other statistics<br/>
are to the close of 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the 9 members received<br/>
in 1865 by the London Missionary Society<br/>
at Hongkong, the Rev. Dr. Legge also<br/>
baptized 7 prisoners at the gaol. Of the<br/>
22 members received by the Evangelical<br/>
Missionary Society of Basel, 9 were at<br/>
Hongkong, 9 at Li-long, and 4 at Chong-<br/>
lok. Of the 200 members in connection<br/>
with that Mission, 49 are at Hongkong.<br/>
66 at Li-long, and 85 at Chong-lok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 347 members reported by the<br/>
American Reformed Dutch Mission at<br/>
Amoy do not include 14 at Chang-chau,<br/>
who disappeared when the rebels held<br/>
that place, and whose fate is not certainly<br/>
known.-—EVENING MAIL, AUGUST 3.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
New Ministry.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent4 >}}"{{< news/indent1 >}}War …… Gen. Peel.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The Earl of Derby has succeeded in<br/>
forming a new Ministry which is now<br/>
composed as follows:—-<br/>
Prime, Minister ……… Earl Derby.<br/>
Minister for Foreign Affairs. Lord Stanley<br/>
Lord High Chancellor…. Lord Chelmsford.<br/>
Chancellor of Exchequer.. Rt. Hon. B.<br/>
Disraeli.<br/>
Secretary of State for India, Earl<br/>
Cranbourne.<br/>
Secretary for the Colonies. Earl Carnarvon.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}} for Ireland…. Lord John Manners<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}} of State for the Home Dept…. Rt.<br/>
Hon. S. Walpole.<br/>
First Lord of the Admiralty. Sir J.<br/>
Pakington.<br/>
President of the Board of. Trade Sir<br/>
Stafford Northcote.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}} Poor Law Board…. Mr. Gathorne<br/>
Hardy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The LEGITIMATE result of unrestricted<br/>
sin is unmitigated self-condemnation—<br/>
which is HELL.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To pardon a TRAITOR while glorying<br/>
in his TREASON is TREASON in its highest<br/>
degree and in its DARKEST FORM.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Public Auction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE is hereby given that there<br/>
will be a Public Auction at the<br/>
Floating House of J. SIMEON BARLOW<br/>
(opposite the premises of MESSRS. R.<br/>
S. SCOTT & Co.) on Wednesday next<br/>
the 26th inst., at 10 A. M.—-at which<br/>
will be sold a variety of household<br/>
furniture &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms cash. All articles at pur-<br/>
chasers risk and expenses on the fall<br/>
of the hammer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, Sept. 20th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Seven days' War.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Saturday Review.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So fast are the movements of modern<br/>
war, and so quickly are its issues decided,<br/>
that it may be said, almost literally, that<br/>
the ancient rivals in Germany, who, a<br/>
century ago, waged a wearisome bloody<br/>
war with each other in Bohemia and<br/>
Silesia for seven long years, have now<br/>
fought as much, done as much, and de-<br/>
cided as much in seven days. That<br/>
Austria would have been so soon and so<br/>
completely beaten was against all reason-<br/>
able expectation. Now that the war, or<br/>
at least the first act of the war, is over,<br/>
it seems as if nothing could have been<br/>
simpler. The First Prussian Army issued<br/>
out of Saxony, and soon found itself op-<br/>
posed to large forces of the enemy. Af-<br/>
ter various turns of fortune, it finally<br/>
established itself in its desired position<br/>
by the storming of Gitschin. The Sec-<br/>
ond Prussian Army issued out of Silesia,<br/>
had a bloody battle at Nachod, still pres-<br/>
sed on, and effected a junction with the<br/>
First Army, having been aided by the<br/>
arrival of the Prussian Guards, who came<br/>
by an intermediate route, and gained a<br/>
decisive victory over the Saxons and the<br/>
Austrians under Clam-Gallas. The Prus-<br/>
sians must have had in the field, after<br/>
their two armies were united, a force of<br/>
not much less than two hundred thousand<br/>
men. An equal force of Austrians was<br/>
resting on the fortresses of Königsgrätz<br/>
and Josephstadt, and protected by the<br/>
Elbe and one of its tributaries. At<br/>
length, on Tuesday the 3rd of July, a<br/>
day for ever memorable in the history of<br/>
Europe, that great battle was begun that<br/>
was to decide the fate of so many men,<br/>
and the destiny of so many nations. At<br/>
six o’clock in the morning the first shot<br/>
was fired, and at seven in the evening<br/>
the great Austrian army, under the re-<br/>
nowned Benedek, was in utter rout,<br/>
broken, disheartened, powerless.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following calendar of events is<br/>
published in the MEMORIAL DIPLOMA-<br/>
TIQUE:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 14.—-Federal execution decreed<br/>
by the Germanic Diet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“16.—-Entry of the Prussians into<br/>
Leipsic, Giessen, and Cassel. Occupa-<br/>
tion of Föòsu.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 17.-—Entry of the Prussian<br/>
General Vogel into the Hanoverian cap-<br/>
ital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 18.-—Occupation of Marienthal,<br/>
Ostritz, and Lauban, in Bohemia, by two<br/>
Prussian regiments, and occupation of<br/>
Dresden by the Prussians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 19.-—Evacuation of Port Wil-<br/>
helm by the Hanoverian troops. Prince<br/>
William of Hanau made prisoner. Caval-<br/>
ry encounter between the Austrians and<br/>
Prussians upon the Rumburg road.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 22.—-Nixdorf occupied by 7,000<br/>
Prussians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 23.-—Occupation of Rumburg<br/>
by the Prussians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 24.—-Armistice between the<br/>
Hanoverian and Prussian troops.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 25.—-Action near Jungbunzlau<br/>
between the Austrians and the Prussians.<br/>
The Prussian troops occupied Reichen-<br/>
berg, Trautenau, and Aicha (Bohemia).
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 26.—-Engagement near Turnau.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 27.—-The army of the Crown<br/>
Prince of Prussia fought the battle of<br/>
Nachod. Engagement at Oswiecin. Fight<br/>
between the Prussians and Hanoverians<br/>
near Langensalza. General Steinmetz<br/>
throws back the Austrian CORPS D’ARMÉE<br/>
(Ramming) upon Josephstadt. Engage-<br/>
ment of the same corps with the 6th<br/>
and 8th Austrian corps under the Arch-<br/>
duke Leopold.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 28.—-Action near Trautenau.<br/>
The troops of Prince Frederick Charles<br/>
engaged near Münchentgrätz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 29.—-The Hanoverian army<br/>
surrendered at discretion. Capture of<br/>
Gitschin by the Prussian army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“June 30.—-Actions at Kort, near<br/>
Turnau, and at Chwalkowitz, between<br/>
Kalitz and Königshof. An Austrian<br/>
army corps under General Clam-Gallas<br/>
compelled to retire upon Königgrätz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“July 1.—-Action at Gitschin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“July 2.—-Arrival of King William at<br/>
Gitschin. Junction of the Crown Prince’s<br/>
army with that of Prince Frederick<br/>
Charles’.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“July 3.—-The battle of Sadowa.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE FLOATING DOCK AT Saigon is now<br/>
ready for use and the largest ships can<br/>
be repaired in it—-a fact that gives the<br/>
official Courier’s matter for five large<br/>
columns of rejoicing. But things have<br/>
lately not been quite so satisfactory in<br/>
the French colony as is represented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the aspirants to the throne of<br/>
Cambodia, residing under the protection<br/>
of the French, suddenly collected a num-<br/>
ber of men and on 7th June appeared<br/>
before the fort of Tay-ninh and killed<br/>
the two French officers with several of<br/>
the soldiers. Reinforcements were sent<br/>
from Saigon and came up with the enemy,<br/>
who far outnumbered them, at 3 P. M. of<br/>
the 14th. After a desperate hand to<br/>
hand fight in a marsh, the French, who<br/>
could not remain in such a place and<br/>
had no provisions, returned to the fort<br/>
of Tay-ninh which they reached at 3 A.<br/>
M., leaving the enemy enfeebled and<br/>
“immobilized.” Lieutenant Colonel Mar-<br/>
chaire, the commander of the expedition,<br/>
fell mortally wounded in the fight; 10 of<br/>
his men were killed with him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As LORD STANLEY was favourable to<br/>
the Bill introduced into Parliament by<br/>
the Russell-Gladstone Ministry for mak-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing the Straits Settlement a Crown Col-<br/>
ony, there is little doubt that it will pass<br/>
this Session. At first the Act will con-<br/>
tinue all existing laws, administrative<br/>
establishments and officials' rights as they<br/>
are.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE SUPREME COURT of Natal is, an<br/>
compelled by the English decision, up-<br/>
holding the proceedings of Bishop Colen-<br/>
so. The Dean has been commanded to<br/>
receive an order from Dr. Colenso as a<br/>
Bishop of the Church and refuses to do<br/>
so. One of the churchwardens, although<br/>
not elected in due form, has forcibly en-<br/>
tered the cathedral by an order from the<br/>
Court and it is rumoured that the next<br/>
move will be the seizure of the com-<br/>
munion plate. It is a pity that such a<br/>
scene should be inevitable and the fall<br/>
of the ministry is likely to postpone the<br/>
passing of Mr. Cardwell's Bill which<br/>
would prevent more scandal.—-FRIEND<br/>
OF INDIA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is a rather unpleasant state of<br/>
affairs at Bangkok. The King has built<br/>
a palace in the midst of the soldiers' bar-<br/>
racks for the heir apparent and has taken<br/>
other measures, that look as if he wanted<br/>
to depart from the custom of an elective<br/>
monarchy and secure the succession for<br/>
his son. A rumour has got about that a<br/>
French Company has applied for the<br/>
concession of a belt of land, 25 miles<br/>
broad, across the Kraa isthmus in the<br/>
Malayan Peninsula, for the purpose of<br/>
making a ship-canal. We hope they will<br/>
succeed in carrying out a scheme often<br/>
urged upon the Indian Government by<br/>
engineer officers, but which would be of<br/>
very little advantage to navigation even<br/>
if practicable, which we doubt. The<br/>
long disputed question as to whether the<br/>
province of Chiangmai is subject to Bur-<br/>
mah or Siam has been decided in favour<br/>
of the latter.—-STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[When was it ever questioned by any one<br/>
in Bangkok whether the Province of Cheang-<br/>
mai properly belonged to Siam or to Burmah?<br/>
During all the 31 years of our residence in the<br/>
city we have never before heard the question<br/>
mooted. The correspondent of the "Straits<br/>
Times" must have had a vivid dream of it,<br/>
and written with a strong impression that<br/>
such a question had long been agitated; or<br/>
he must have written with as little regard to<br/>
truth as did the author of Neale's residence<br/>
in Siam.] {{< news/indent4 >}} Ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Our readers will probably remember<br/>
the name of Kubota Sentaro, lately in<br/>
command of the Japanese Garrison here.<br/>
He was, on the occasion of the review<br/>
and sham fight on March 21st, the guest<br/>
of Colonel Brown of H. M. XX. Regt.<br/>
and directed the movements of the Jap-<br/>
anese troops on that day. He was well<br/>
known and much liked by many officers<br/>
of the regiment which has just left us. It<br/>
is with much regret that we have to tell,<br/>
as we are sure it is with sorrow that his<br/>
friends in the XX. at Hongkong will<br/>
hear, the sad end to this able and prom-<br/>
ising officer's career."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It appears that about eighteen months<br/>
ago a private convention was entered in-<br/>
to between the Yedo authorities and the<br/>
French Minister here, by virtue of which<br/>
military instructors were to be sent out<br/>
to train the armies of the Shogoon.<br/>
Meanwhile, the native troops had com-<br/>
menced drill on the Dutch and French<br/>
model. Kubota, some months ago, how-<br/>
ever, asked from Col. Browne the ser-<br/>
vices of an officer of the XX. Regiment<br/>
to drill a body of about 1000 or 1200<br/>
troops, which request being granted,<br/>
these men were soon brought into a high<br/>
state of discipline. Kubota had mean-<br/>
while translated the English drill-book,<br/>
and every thing was going on very satis-<br/>
factorily until about three or four weeks<br/>
ago, when he was suddenly sent for to<br/>
Yedo, and summarily degraded, his<br/>
English drilled officers dispersed amongst<br/>
other regiments, and his men relegated<br/>
to the French drill. His house here was<br/>
given up to loot, his property confiscated,<br/>
his pay reduced to 100 kokus of rice and<br/>
himself condemned to confinement in<br/>
his own house. At Yedo, it seems, that<br/>
his drilling troops in the English manner<br/>
and translating the English drill-book<br/>
had been complained of as a breach of<br/>
the contract with the French. His trans-<br/>
lating the book without orders was made<br/>
the pretext for his punishment. His fail<br/>
having been thus contrived, this high-<br/>
spirited officer, unable to bear his dis-<br/>
grace, attempted to commit the Hara-kiri.<br/>
His friends prevented him from carrying<br/>
out his intention, which, however, was re-<br/>
ported to the Government, who ordered<br/>
him to be beheaded, for the offence of at-<br/>
tempting the Hara-kiri without permis-<br/>
sion. By this time, however, the unfor-<br/>
tunate man's reason was upset, according<br/>
to the reports of his friends, and power-<br/>
ful intercession being used, his life was<br/>
spared; but he remains now, it is said, a<br/>
hopeless lunatic. This latter point may<br/>
be an exaggeration or an invention by<br/>
his friends to save his life, but the main<br/>
facts of the case are indubitable. Such<br/>
is the end to the career of one of the<br/>
most intelligent and able Japanese officers<br/>
whom we have ever had the fortune to<br/>
meet—-a courteous, highspirited gentle-<br/>
man and with the making of a good soldier<br/>
in him. Who cannot but sympathise<br/>
with him in this unhappy fate and with<br/>
those Japanese who complain bitterly to<br/>
us that the yoke of their gallant "allies" is<br/>
becoming more than they can bear!"—-O.<br/>
C. Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Slavery Dead.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Beecher includes not only the col-<br/>
ored race, but women in the policy of uni-<br/>
versal suffrage which he advocated in this<br/>
sermon,-—a sentiment which was received<br/>
with "moderate applause," according to<br/>
the reporter. The following telling com-<br/>
parison was introduced towards the<br/>
close:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I have an etching at home of which I<br/>
am now reminded. It is a picture of a<br/>
dead boar, near whom are two great dogs,<br/>
in at the death. The boar lies in stiffness<br/>
of unmistakable death. He is dead in the<br/>
eye, dead in the snout, dead in his limbs,<br/>
dead all over. One of the mastiffs stands<br/>
at a little distance distrustful and appre-<br/>
hensive—-his eye never leaves the carcasS<br/>
of his ancient enemy, and he trembles at<br/>
every disturbance of his hair by the play-<br/>
ful wind; the other dog is stretched upon<br/>
the grass, his nose resting upon his paws,<br/>
and his eyes closed as if in sleep, but a<br/>
careful observation shows that he keeps<br/>
one eye just enough open to enable him to<br/>
watch the dead body before him, in whose<br/>
death he is but a doubtful believer. Just<br/>
so there are people who don't believe in<br/>
the death of slavery. Dead! Why, it's<br/>
dead in eye, in snout, in body and limb, in<br/>
every hair and fibre of frame, and yet they<br/>
watch, and fear, and grumble. [Tremen-<br/>
dous applause.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Watch, mastiffs, watch, but there is no<br/>
resurrection for slavery."—-PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
Union Hotel.<br/>
THE OLDEST<br/>
ESTABLISHED HOTEL<br/>
IN BANGKOK.<br/>
Billiard Tables and Bowling<br/>
Alleys are attached to the<br/>
Establishment.<br/>
P. CARTER,<br/>
Proprietor. Bangkok, 14th Jan. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
