---
linkTitle: 'August 9th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 9th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 9th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 54
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, August 9th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 31.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Make Haste to Live.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY H. BONAR.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Make haste, O man, to live,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For thou so soon must die;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Time hurries past thee like the breeze<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}How swift its moments fly!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To breathe, and wake, and sleep,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To smile, to sigh, to grieve,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To move in idleness through earth,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}This, this is not to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Make haste, O man, to do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Whatever must be done;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thou hast no time to lose in sloth,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thy day will soon be gone.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Up then with speed, and work :<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Fling ease and self away:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}This is no time for thee to sleep,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Up, watch, and work, and pray!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The useful, not the great,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The thing that never dies,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The silent toil that is not lost –<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Set there before thine eyes.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The seed, whose leaf and flower,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Though poor in human sight,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Brings forth at last the eternal fruit,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Now thou by day and night.<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Make haste, O man, to live,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thy time is almost o'er:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}O sleep not, dream not, but arise,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The Judge is at the door!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Make haste, O man, to live!<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gladstone and Disraeli.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All who hear Mr. Gladstone must<br/>
perceive that there is a mixture of ani-<br/>
mosity and contempt in his treatment<br/>
of Mr. Disraeli which he never betrays<br/>
when replying to any other speaker.<br/>
He then becomes most animated, puts<br/>
forth all his strength and oratorical<br/>
science, and seems not only bent on<br/>
defeating an opponent, but on crush-<br/>
ing an enemy. In the shock of these<br/>
two antagonists we see the last re-<br/>
mains of the bitter political feeling of<br/>
the last generation, which has been<br/>
dying out since the repeal of the Corn<br/>
Laws in 1846, and the key to these<br/>
feelings must be sought in the history<br/>
of those times. Mr. Gladstone was the<br/>
chosen friend and disciple of Sir Ro-<br/>
bert Peel; Mr. Disraeli his bitter and<br/>
unscrupulous enemy. Had it not been<br/>
for Mr. Disraeli, the repeal of the Corn<br/>
Laws would probably have been ac-<br/>
quiesced in by the country gentlemen,<br/>
the Conservatives would never have<br/>
split, and the Protectionist party<br/>
would never have existed. It was Mr.<br/>
Disraeli who urged the Tory rank and<br/>
file to turn out their natural leaders,<br/>
and take himself in their place; who<br/>
shortened the life of Peel by his veno-<br/>
mous accusations, and caused Glad-<br/>
stone, Sidney Herbert, Newcastle,<br/>
Cardwell, and others, to wander as<br/>
outcasts, under the name of Peplites,<br/>
till Lord Aberdeen’s Government in<br/>
1853. The first time that Mr. Disraeli<br/>
gained the climax of his ambition in<br/>
high office was in 1852, as Chancellor<br/>
of the Exchequer, and then it was that<br/>
Mr. Gladstone met him in fair fight,<br/>
and overthrew him in the sight of<br/>
friends and foes. His budget was<br/>
mercilessly dissected—he had to beat<br/>
an ignominious retreat—and Mr.<br/>
Gladstone succeeded to his office, to<br/>
reap his greenest laurels where his op-<br/>
ponent had exhibited his greatest fail-<br/>
ure. All who heard the speech of<br/>
1852 must have thought of it while<br/>
Mr. Gladstone was speaking the other<br/>
night. It was not the mere Franchise<br/>
Bill that roused his energies. The<br/>
memories of a life were present to him,<br/>
and he was answering the man who<br/>
had driven him from the track of poli-<br/>
tical life he meant to pursue, and led<br/>
him to find friends he never dreamed<br/>
of. Mr. Disraeli was now occupying<br/>
the post as Conservative leader of the<br/>
House of Commons, which Mr. Glad-<br/>
stone had probably looked forward to<br/>
in moments of early ambition. By<br/>
clever jockeying he obtained the post<br/>
of leader fifteen years earlier than his<br/>
rival; and this was the man who ven-<br/>
tured to taunt him with his youthful<br/>
aspirations, which he himself had been<br/>
the principal agent in frustrating.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the Ministry are beaten, and dis-<br/>
solve on the cry of reform or no reform,<br/>
the Tories will assuredly be beaten,<br/>
but a fierce spirit will be aroused, and<br/>
the lovers of wild popular energies<br/>
will clap their hands. The Tories will<br/>
not be able to direct the course of af-<br/>
fair as they do now, but will depend<br/>
for moderation on the mercies of their<br/>
opponents. Mr. Disraeli has raised<br/>
once more the old standard of Toryism,<br/>
which we thought had been laid up<br/>
for ever in some old baronial hall, or<br/>
buried in the grave of Lord Eldon. It<br/>
means that change as change is bad,<br/>
that reform of our institutions is un-<br/>
necessary, and that these have a self-<br/>
adapting power, if left to themselves,<br/>
to conform to the wants of ever advan-<br/>
cing time. This doctrine is held in<br/>
spite of the fact that change is the<br/>
great rule of nature; in spite of the<br/>
teachings of history confirming the<br/>
wise aphorism of Bacon, “morosa re-<br/>
rum retentio res turbulentas est, neque<br/>
ac novitas.” We thought it was the<br/>
Conservatives—-that is, the advocates<br/>
of moderate progress-—who were op-<br/>
posed to the Liberals in the House of<br/>
Commons, till Mr. Disraeli raised the<br/>
old battle-cry. We now know that<br/>
we have to deal with the old spirit<br/>
which opposed the abolition of the<br/>
punishment of death for stealing five<br/>
shillings from the pocket, with the<br/>
same violent antagonism as if it had<br/>
been an act to abolish monarchy. We<br/>
cannot believe that many will follow<br/>
such a cry, but we grieve to see among<br/>
the number General Peel, with head-<br/>
long excitement, offering himself as a<br/>
leader. General Peel, in whose sound<br/>
judgment and common sense his<br/>
brother, the great Sir Robert, placed<br/>
such confidence, that he is said to have<br/>
been the only man with whom he talk-<br/>
ed over some of his most important<br/>
measures. General Peel now places<br/>
himself side by side with his brother’s<br/>
enemy, in opposition to all reform, for<br/>
his speeches will bear no other sense;<br/>
thus turning his back on his own<br/>
opinions and acts seven years ago.<br/>
We discredit the rumours current,<br/>
that it is necessary for the “Tory”<br/>
party to “blood their hounds;” that<br/>
office has irresistible charms, if it be<br/>
only for three months, in order that a<br/>
few bishops and magistrates may be<br/>
made, and a few pensions and places<br/>
granted. Such sordid views can never<br/>
actuate a great party: but if the Tor-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ies act now as they blamed the Whigs<br/>
for acting in 1859 about their own<br/>
Reform Bill, they stand self-condem-<br/>
ned; but if they assist in settling a<br/>
troublesome obstacle in the way of<br/>
peaceable progress, their magnanimity<br/>
will be appreciated, and the, country<br/>
will not forget it. Mr. Gladstone sup-<br/>
ported them in 1859, and it was not<br/>
his fault that reform was not then car-<br/>
ried. Let them support him now in<br/>
return. If they do not, the words of<br/>
Carlyle, once applied to the great<br/>
Peel, will be true of Gladstone:—"The<br/>
largest verascity ever done in Parlia-<br/>
ment in our time, as we all know, was<br/>
of this man's doing; and I believe<br/>
England, in her dumb way, remembers<br/>
that too. The 'traitor Peel' can very<br/>
well afford to let innumerable ducal<br/>
costermongers, parliamentary adventur-<br/>
ers, and lineal representatives of the<br/>
Impenitent Thief, say all their say<br/>
about him, and do all their do. With<br/>
a virtual England at his back, and an<br/>
actual eternal sky above him, there is<br/>
not much in the total net amount of<br/>
that. When the master of the horse<br/>
rides abroad, many dogs in the village<br/>
bark; but he pursues his journey all<br/>
the same."—Fortnightly Review.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wealth Well Used.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last number of the Foreign Mis-<br/>
SIONARY contains among its acknowledge-<br/>
ments the gift of a New York gentle-<br/>
man, of $5,000. One might be tempted<br/>
to inquire whether, in view of the ex-<br/>
treme destitution of the city poor, that<br/>
sum might not be better devoted to their<br/>
necessities. On inquiry, however, it will<br/>
be found that this $5,000 is hardly a tithe<br/>
of what this same man dispenses in char-<br/>
ities, most of which are at home. Surely,<br/>
then, he may be permitted to send a lit-<br/>
tle abroad. This same man may be oc-<br/>
casionally seen in the Fifth avenue as he<br/>
gets into his carriage of an afternoon,<br/>
after a heavy day's work. He is rather<br/>
under medium size, of plain attire, with<br/>
locks somewhat blanched, and a sensible,<br/>
every-day countenance, such as you<br/>
might expect in a good business man.<br/>
He carries a heavy burden on his should-<br/>
ers, nothing less than that of an estate of<br/>
several millions, which he inherited from<br/>
his father, who was one of the merchant<br/>
princes of New York at the beginning of<br/>
the present century. All this he has ad-<br/>
ministered with the utmost care, for the<br/>
sole purpose of doing good. He avoids<br/>
the world, and dwells apart in his own<br/>
little circle; he allows no applicants to<br/>
see him, but seeks out worthy objects, or<br/>
listens to the appeals of well-known<br/>
channels of charity. Every day he at-<br/>
tends closely to business, with the aid of<br/>
his collector and agent, and then finds a<br/>
quiet amusement in his private library,<br/>
which is one of the finest in the world, or<br/>
in his picture gallery which is unequal-<br/>
led in America. All his income, after<br/>
paying his current expenses, is devoted<br/>
to doing good, and his influence is felt<br/>
in the cause of benevolence throughout<br/>
the world. This accounts for that $5,000.<br/>
Such are the leading points in the char-<br/>
acter of that humble Christian, known as<br/>
James Lenox.—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Queen Victoria and the
Fenians.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A London correspondent of the "New<br/>
York Tribune" writes:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An interesting anecdote of the Queen's<br/>
humanity and attachment to her army<br/>
has just come to my knowledge. You<br/>
may have noticed in the news from Ire-<br/>
land the trial of a Sergeant Derrangh for<br/>
Fenianism, of which he was found guilty<br/>
and sentenced to be shot. When the war-<br/>
rant was brought to the Queen for signa-<br/>
ture, her consent was urgently solicited<br/>
on the grounds of the necessity of mak-<br/>
ing an example, and at length obtained,<br/>
though she burst into tears in the act of<br/>
recording it. Within an hour afterward<br/>
she sent for the warrant again and torn<br/>
it to pieces—and God bless her for it!<br/>
The act will effect more toward extirpa-<br/>
ting Fenianism in the ranks—if it exist<br/>
there—than all the constables, spies,<br/>
lawyers, judges and hangmen within the<br/>
fair seas of Brittian could do.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How Pennsylvania Coal was
Discovered.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A writer in the “New York Observer”<br/>
asserts that Col. George Shoemaker, a<br/>
gentleman of Teutonic origin, was the<br/>
discoverer of Pennsylvania coal. He<br/>
lived on the Schuylkill, and owned ex-<br/>
tensive tracts. The writer goes on to say.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“It chanced one day that in construc-<br/>
ting a lime kiln he used some of the black<br/>
stones that were lying about the place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
‘Mine Got! mine Got! der ethones po<br/>
all on fire!’ exclaimed the astonished<br/>
Dutchman, when the rich glow of the<br/>
ignited anthracite met his gaze. The<br/>
neighbors, who, of course, were few and<br/>
far between, were, after much ado, as-<br/>
sembled to witness the marvel. This hap-<br/>
pened in 1812. Shortly after, mine host<br/>
loaded a Pennsylvania team with the<br/>
black stones and journeyed to Philadel-<br/>
phia, a distance of 93 miles. There un-<br/>
foreseen difficulties were presented. The<br/>
grates and stoves then in use were not<br/>
constructed to facilitate the combustion<br/>
of anthracite, and burn it would not !<br/>
After many ineffectual efforts to ignite<br/>
the product, it was thrown aside as worth-<br/>
less, and our discomfited German, who<br/>
had beguiled his toilsome way to the<br/>
metropolis with dreams of ingots, return-<br/>
ed to digest his disappointment in his<br/>
uncertain solitude." — Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Match Factory.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A match factory in Western New York<br/>
is noted for the curious machinery used<br/>
in the manufacture. 720,000 feet of pine<br/>
of the best quality are used annually for<br/>
the matches, and 400,000 feet of bass-<br/>
wood for cases. The sulphur used an-<br/>
nually for the matches is 400 barrels, and<br/>
the phosphorus is 9,600 pounds. The<br/>
machines run night and day, and 300<br/>
hands are employed at the works. 600<br/>
pounds of paper per day are used to<br/>
make the light small boxes for holding<br/>
the matches, and four tons of paste-<br/>
board per week for the larger boxes.<br/>
Sixty-six pounds of flour per day are<br/>
used for paste, and the penny stamps re-<br/>
quired by government on the boxes a-<br/>
mount to the snug little sum of $1,440<br/>
per day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are four machines in use for<br/>
cutting, dipping and delivering the mat-<br/>
ches. The two-inch pine plank is sawed<br/>
up the length of the match, which is 2½<br/>
inches. These go into the machine for<br/>
cutting, where at every stroke 12 mat-<br/>
ches are cut, and by the succeeding stroke<br/>
pushed into slats arranged on a double<br/>
chain 250 feet long, which carries them<br/>
to the sulphur vat, and from thence to<br/>
the phosphorous vat and thus across the<br/>
room and back, returning them at a point<br/>
just in front of the cutting machine, and<br/>
where they are delivered in their natural<br/>
order, and are gathered up by a boy into<br/>
trays and sent to the packing room. Thus<br/>
1,000 gross or 144,000 small boxes of<br/>
matches are made per day. The ma-<br/>
chines for making the small, thin paper<br/>
boxes and their covers are quite as in-<br/>
geniously contrived as those that make<br/>
the matches. A long coil of paper, as<br/>
wide as the box is long, revolves on a<br/>
wheel, one end being in the machine. It<br/>
first passes through rollers, where the<br/>
printing is done, from thence to the<br/>
pasteboxes, where the sides and ends on-<br/>
ly are pasted; from thence to the folding<br/>
apparatus, where the ends are nicely<br/>
folded and the whole box is pasted to-<br/>
gether and drops into a basket. A sim-<br/>
ilar machine is at work at the covers, and<br/>
thus 144,000 boxes per day are manufac-<br/>
tured."-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Money.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Men work for it, fight for it, beg for<br/>
it, steal for it, starve for it, and die for<br/>
it. And all the while, from the cradle<br/>
to the grave, nature and God are thun-<br/>
dering in our ears the solemn question -
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What shall it profit a man, if he gain<br/>
the whole world and lose his own soul?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This madness for money is the strong-<br/>
est and lowest of the passions; it is the in-<br/>
satiate Moloch of the human heart, be-<br/>
fore whose remorseless altar all the finer<br/>
attributes of humanity are sacrificed. It<br/>
makes merchandise of all that is sacred<br/>
in human affections, and even traffics in<br/>
the awful solemnities of the eternal.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Roots of Slavery.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are many roots of slavery left<br/>
in the ground, though the main trunk has<br/>
been cut down, and these roots must not<br/>
be allowed to shoot forth new sprouts.<br/>
The roots themselves must be torn to<br/>
work of the greatest difficulty with us,<br/>
because slavery attached itself in our<br/>
country to a race. It extended, and still<br/>
extends, in many portions of the country;<br/>
the degradation inherent in slavery to<br/>
the color of the formerly enslaved people.<br/>
A free negro stood always nearer to the<br/>
slave, legally and socially, than to the<br/>
freeman of the dominant people. As to <br/>
state sovereignty it is a provincial egotism,<br/>
which all history shows is pleasing to<br/>
most men of minor aspirations. The<br/>
American problem is, to unite the highest<br/>
degree of self-government, not only of<br/>
the states, but of a thousand institutions,<br/>
with the fullest nationality and the plain-<br/>
est and warmest patriotism—undivided<br/>
devotion to the whole country. The<br/>
national policy is the normal type of<br/>
modern government.—-Dr. Lieber.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Hearty Christian.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hearty Christian is one who can work<br/>
as well as eat. If there is a heavy load<br/>
to carry in Christ's cause, he takes to it<br/>
at once. If there is a wall to build, he<br/>
is the man to lift the big stones. If some<br/>
one has to go out into the storm and<br/>
endure pelting opposition, who so able<br/>
to bear it as his broad breast and brawny<br/>
arms? A man that loves Christ loves<br/>
work. A dyspeptic christian dreads<br/>
work. A lazy Christian shirks it. What<br/>
a hospital is many a church! Here lies<br/>
one poor man down with a paralysis of<br/>
faith. Here is another laid up by a<br/>
sprain which he got by a sudden fall into<br/>
temptation. Here is one whom the fever<br/>
of passion has turned out; he looks hardly<br/>
worth the medicine to cure him. And<br/>
for another he is under pastoral treat-<br/>
ment for the blindness of unbelief! and<br/>
for another, whose gaping wound reveals<br/>
the spot where Satan's fiery dart went in!<br/>
A revival commonly clears the church<br/>
hospital. But a long period of spiritual<br/>
declension cramps it to the doorway. O,<br/>
what need that he who went through<br/>
Galilee healing all manner of diseases,<br/>
should come into some of our hearts.—<br/>
Lo. Co. New
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Mistake-—What
Keeps you Back.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Brother Nettleton," said a New Eng-<br/>
land pastor, whom that once eminent revi-<br/>
valist was visiting," "I wish you would<br/>
talk to some of our young converts a<br/>
little."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"What is the special difficulty?" asked<br/>
Mr. N.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"They are tardy in making a profes-<br/>
sion of their faith," was the reply.<br/>
"There is young Hobart, who trusts that<br/>
he experienced a saving change nearly a<br/>
year ago; yet he shrinks from confessing<br/>
Christ before men. He is come in this<br/>
evening for a little practice in singing;<br/>
I wish you would speak with him."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Give me an opportunity to see him<br/>
alone, then," said Mr. Nettleton. The<br/>
pastor did so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Introducing the subject with his usual<br/>
tact, he soon drew from the young man<br/>
his reasons for declining to take upon<br/>
himself the vows of Christian discipleship.<br/>
"It seems, sir, like challenging the world<br/>
to look at me, a miserable sinner that I am,<br/>
as a representative of Christ-—like setting<br/>
myself up as something specially good—-<br/>
proclaiming my own righteousness in<br/>
short. I can not bear the thought of<br/>
even seeming to say to others: 'Stand by;<br/>
I am holier than ye,' when I realize so<br/>
painfully how imperfect I am."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I understand you, friend Hobart, and<br/>
believe you are sincere in this expression<br/>
of humility. But it seems to me that you<br/>
have made a mistake with regard to this<br/>
matter. It is not yourself, but Christ,<br/>
that you are asked to profess. Surely<br/>
you believe Him to be the 'chiefest a-<br/>
mong ten thousand,' the altogether lovely<br/>
—-a great God and a Saviour'?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, sir, he is that to me; I love him,<br/>
and feel that I can never love him too<br/>
much."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well—that is what you are to confess<br/>
to the world!-—that Jesus is infinitely good<br/>
and precious, while you are vile and sin-<br/>
ful—and has laid you under everlasting<br/>
obligations to love and serve Him, and<br/>
that, with the help of His promised<br/>
grace, you will try to fulfill those obliga-<br/>
tions. You are willing, I trust, that your<br/>
fellow-men should know this?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, sir, I am; and if I had looked<br/>
at the subject in that light, I should not<br/>
have hesitated so long. But I was so<br/>
afraid of 'setting up for a saint,' as the<br/>
world says. I see now that it is Christ,<br/>
and not myself, I am to hold up; and<br/>
that to make a profession of religion is to<br/>
tell what a glorious Saviour He is, to<br/>
pardon and make a child of a sinner like<br/>
me. I do love Him, trust Him and mean<br/>
to serve him; and the world shall know it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Are any of our readers making the<br/>
same mistake which Mr. Nettleton so<br/>
happily corrected in the above sketch?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Picific.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Beginning the Day with God.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are many toiling ones whose time<br/>
is not at their own command, but there is<br/>
no one who cannot hold converse with God.<br/>
His ear can hear amid the clang and roar<br/>
of machinery, or the hum of hundreds of<br/>
voices. The heart can go up to him no<br/>
matter what the surroundings. Wherever<br/>
Abraham pitched his tent, there he raised<br/>
up an altar to the Lord. So, wherever the<br/>
Christian heart is, there is also an accepta-<br/>
ble altar from which the incense of prayer<br/>
and praise may ascend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yet there are few who may not, if they<br/>
will, find time and place for private com-<br/>
munion with God before entering on the<br/>
morning's duties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Havelock would rise at four, if the<br/>
hour for marching was at six, rather than<br/>
lose the precious privilege of communion<br/>
with his God, before setting out.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Luther, in his busiest seasons, felt that<br/>
praying time was never lost. When re-<br/>
markably pressed with labors he would<br/>
say, “I have so much to do that I cannot<br/>
get on without three hours a day praying.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir Matthew Hale also bears this testi-<br/>
mony: “If I omit praying and reading<br/>
God's word in the morning, nothing goes<br/>
well all day.” How many of us may find<br/>
here the cause of many of our failures, and<br/>
consequent discontent and unhappiness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PACIFIC.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
August 9th 1863.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Why Rice is so dear
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Foreign business in this city is now<br/>
extremely dull. The prices of Rice,<br/>
the leading staple of the country still<br/>
remain wonderfully high considering<br/>
the great amount of the grain there<br/>
must be in the country, and the fine<br/>
prospects of a bountiful crop within<br/>
three months of the harvest. What<br/>
the grand cause of this state of the<br/>
rice market may be is a question hard<br/>
to solve. A large share of the influ-<br/>
ences which conspire to this result,<br/>
probably, take their rise in the fact<br/>
that both the native growers of the<br/>
grain and native ship owners who ex-<br/>
port it are yet young and compara-<br/>
tively inexperienced in the business<br/>
of commerce, and do not as readily<br/>
conform to a state when prices of the<br/>
great staple should be cheap as more<br/>
age and experience would lead them<br/>
to do. The former are like children<br/>
who have so long been fed with sweet<br/>
meats, and have had their digestive<br/>
functions thereby so depraved that<br/>
you cannot reconcile them to any<br/>
other than a sweet meat diet. The<br/>
rice growers have been so long indul-<br/>
ged with exorbitant prices for their<br/>
grain, that they are determined to<br/>
keep up the prices of it at the great<br/>
risk of coming out penny wise and<br/>
pound foolish. They are disgusted<br/>
with the idea of over selling rice again<br/>
as cheaply as they sold it 3 years ago,<br/>
however well they could afford to do<br/>
so. The same unbending adherence to<br/>
high prices for labor is seen among all<br/>
other classes of the natives. For exam-<br/>
ple our coolies, who had their wages<br/>
raised in the time of the great scarcity<br/>
and dearness of rice, will not now con-<br/>
sent to work for lower wages when<br/>
food is more plenty and cheap. It is<br/>
exceedingly difficult if not impossible<br/>
to incline them to conform to such a<br/>
change.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The native ship owners, having not<br/>
much short of a hundred square rigged<br/>
merchant vessels at command, and<br/>
being in circumstances in which they<br/>
can better afford to give high prices<br/>
for rice than foreigners can, and being<br/>
unwilling to have their tonnage lie<br/>
idle, are ever ready to indulge the rice<br/>
owners in their high demands. This<br/>
seems to us a plausible reason why<br/>
Europeans and Americans cannot pro-<br/>
cure the grain at lower figures. If the<br/>
natives had much fewer vessels, not<br/>
nearly enough to export all the mer-<br/>
chandise annually offered for exporta-<br/>
tion, foreigners could have some pow-<br/>
er to bring down the prices of rice.<br/>
But as the rice growers are now but<br/>
little dependent on the vessels of forei-<br/>
gners, the latter can hence have but<br/>
little control of the rice market. We<br/>
see not how they can do much in any<br/>
way to bring about a change in their<br/>
favor unless they can effect it through<br/>
the Steam Mills, which we learn are<br/>
now hulling nearly all the rice that is<br/>
exported. If they can keep that pow-<br/>
er and increase it they may do much<br/>
in controlling the prices of Rice. But<br/>
this power is liable to pass out of their<br/>
hands as that of the Bangkok Ship-<br/>
ping has done. Native speculators are<br/>
preparing themselves to take the pow-<br/>
er when it begins to shift hands, and<br/>
when they do so foreign speculators in<br/>
rice will have to retire or learn to do<br/>
their business with as little profit as<br/>
the natives do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is, we may say, unfortunate for<br/>
foreign business men that they have<br/>
furnished the natives with so many<br/>
merchant vessels, some 30 or 40 with-<br/>
in a few years, putting into their hands<br/>
so much power to control the export-<br/>
ation of the great staple of the coun-<br/>
try. But who shall say that it is not<br/>
in the same proportion fortunate for<br/>
the growers of rice and for the people<br/>
of the country generally, that the na-<br/>
tive business men have thus adroitly<br/>
managed to get the control of Siam-<br/>
ese commerce into their own hands!<br/>
We are not of that class who think<br/>
white rice at ¼ of a tical (32 cents)<br/>
per basket, from month to month and<br/>
year to year, will operate as a calami-<br/>
ty to the people, no not even to the<br/>
poorer classes. We are of the opinion<br/>
that such a state of the market is<br/>
working great good to these classes,<br/>
making it necessary for them to be far<br/>
more provident and industrious than<br/>
formerly. Rice at only half that price,<br/>
as it used to be, did but foster idleness<br/>
and improvidence, and was hence in<br/>
its influence, in one sense, as much<br/>
a curse as a blessing. The high<br/>
prices of rice causes other articles of<br/>
food of almost all kinds to rise to a<br/>
proportionate high figure. And all<br/>
this we think is working real good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some think that a great cause of<br/>
the present high prices of rice is that<br/>
there has been so much money brought<br/>
into the country by trade and so little<br/>
sent out, that the rice dealers have<br/>
buried their money in the earth and<br/>
hence feel emboldened to risk much<br/>
in holding back their rice for high<br/>
prices. We confess to little faith in<br/>
this explanation. Our long experience<br/>
with both Siamese and Chinese<br/>
lead us to think it quite unlike them<br/>
to hoard up money in that way. Those<br/>
who have made money these late years<br/>
have expended nearly all of it upon<br/>
their own persons, equipage, houses<br/>
boats, ships, and Buddhist temples.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No 6.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The building of the royal palace<br/>
and its accompaniments or satellites<br/>
on mount Nakawa Kiree was com-<br/>
menced, if we recollect rightly, in the<br/>
year 1859, and was a little more than<br/>
four years in coming to a stage in<br/>
which it would be said to be finished.<br/>
But the truth is, royal palaces whether<br/>
in the city or the country are much<br/>
like Buddhist temples in being scarce-<br/>
ly ever finished. There were at the<br/>
beginning of the work, as we have<br/>
been credibly informed, 1000 Lao-<br/>
sians called out of their neighboring<br/>
villages to do the king's work—-t'am<br/>
rachakan-—in the mount 6 months<br/>
out of 12. The first thousand were<br/>
allowed to be exchanged for a fresh<br/>
relay of a second thousand after a<br/>
service of two months, and those again<br/>
were exchanged for the first thousand<br/>
after they had completed the same<br/>
term of service; and thus they were<br/>
exchanged during the first 12 months.<br/>
There were then, it seems, only about<br/>
2000 able bodied men of all the Lao-<br/>
sians in that quarter, living in six or<br/>
eight villages within 15 miles of<br/>
the mount. These men were not<br/>
only obliged to work without pay,<br/>
but also to board themselves far away<br/>
from their homes, as also to provide<br/>
themselves with nearly all the tools<br/>
they needed for their work. Their<br/>
work was at first to open a road up<br/>
the mount by blasting a way through<br/>
the craggy lime stone rocks and thus<br/>
prepare it for future flagging with<br/>
brick. The blasting was chiefly done<br/>
by making large fires in close contact<br/>
with the rocks which they wished to<br/>
break to pieces. But sometimes they<br/>
were too large to be cracked in this<br/>
way, and then they would split them<br/>
with powder. Having thus cut a zig-<br/>
zig way for a road, they were set to<br/>
the work of building up the sides of<br/>
the cliffs with small stones cemented<br/>
together by a composition of lime<br/>
sand and molasses. They got their<br/>
stones from the rocks as above descri-<br/>
bed. We then saw them scattered all<br/>
about the mount gathering up stones<br/>
and carrying them in baskets swung<br/>
on poles resting on the shoulders of<br/>
two men. It appeared to us, as in-<br/>
deed it was, a very tedious work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second year government called<br/>
out 500 of the Laosians every month,<br/>
and so arranged it that every able bo-<br/>
died man of the 2000 should do gov-<br/>
ernment work on the mount 3 months<br/>
of the year. In the third and fourth<br/>
years 300 of them were thus employ-<br/>
ed every month. According to this<br/>
calculation these 2000 Laos men were<br/>
taxed the first year with 365,000 days<br/>
work—-the 2nd year 182,500, the 3rd<br/>
year 109,500 days and the 4th year<br/>
the same, making in the aggregate<br/>
during those four years the sum total<br/>
of 764,500 days equal to 25,483<br/>
months or 2,123½ years. Now this ser-<br/>
vice, estimated according to the gov-<br/>
ernment valuation of the services of<br/>
each man, which is 6 ticals per month,<br/>
and by which they are allowed to com-<br/>
mute their taxes, would amount to the<br/>
startling sum of 152,898 ticals, equal<br/>
to $91,738. Is not this a crushing<br/>
taxation to levy on a class of subjects<br/>
whose honesty and good citizenship<br/>
has never been surpassed if indeed<br/>
equalled by any other class of people<br/>
in the kingdom? And yet though<br/>
they have groaned under this terrible<br/>
oppression, as did the children of Israel<br/>
in Egypt, they seem not to have<br/>
been diminished by it, but rather in-<br/>
creased. They are now a remarkably<br/>
hale race of men, and their women<br/>
and children appear far more ruddy<br/>
than the families of the Siamese who<br/>
are their lords. Let it be repeated<br/>
and well considered that these 2000<br/>
Laosians supported their families and<br/>
rendered unrequited service to the<br/>
government of the country in the<br/>
course of those four years to the a-<br/>
mount of 784,500 days which at the<br/>
government estimate was worth<br/>
$91,738. By this we may see how<br/>
much men, even the ignorant heathen<br/>
may do for themselves and save for<br/>
the public good by the simplest possi-<br/>
ble diet and the most rigged economy.<br/>
It should be said also to the praise of<br/>
those Laosian families that all their men<br/>
women and children clothe their per-<br/>
sons entirely excepting only their feet,<br/>
which their neighbors the Siamese<br/>
scarcely never do.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is due to the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment to say, that it allows those Lau-<br/>
sians to grow all the rice they can<br/>
find time for, on government land free<br/>
from taxation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears from credible data be-<br/>
fore us that the Siamese government<br/>
has expended on that palace mount<br/>
the sum of 3000 changs of silver,<br/>
which is 240,000 ticals, equal to<br/>
$144,000. Add to this the govern-<br/>
ment estimate of the unrequited ser-<br/>
vices of the Laotians as above set forth,<br/>
and we have the sum of $235,738.<br/>
Outside of this sum the king has ex-<br/>
pended for making roads, refitting and<br/>
garnishing idol caverns in the neigh-<br/>
boring mountains large sums of mo-<br/>
ney. He seems to have determined<br/>
that Petchaburee and its suburbs shall<br/>
be a city befitting a heathen king who<br/>
has had his mind much enlarged by<br/>
European knowledge and science, but<br/>
unconverted to christianity. On the<br/>
new market which he has caused to<br/>
be erected in the city he has expanded<br/>
not less, probably, than 2000 changs of<br/>
money equal to $96,000. It consists<br/>
of two lines of two storied brick buil-<br/>
dings, each about half a mile long on<br/>
either side of a wide street,—the site<br/>
of an old market—which was a mere<br/>
jumble of the most rickety sheds and<br/>
hovels. The dwellings connected with<br/>
them were but little better, and the<br/>
street between them was but a narrow<br/>
filthy lane. The new street is wide,<br/>
well elevated with brick-walled sewers<br/>
on either side. The market stalls in front<br/>
of the brick buildings are neat and tidy,<br/>
and the occupants are obliged to keep<br/>
them cleanly and the street well swept.<br/>
The rent which the occupants have to<br/>
pay government is $3.60 per month<br/>
for about 20 feet in length of the block<br/>
divided into 3 rooms on the lower<br/>
story with the use of 12 feet width<br/>
of frontage for exposing their goods<br/>
under an awning. It is understood<br/>
that they must occupy rooms in the<br/>
new buildings if they would continue<br/>
to have any part or lot in the business<br/>
of the market.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The city proper is on the east side<br/>
of the river, (the latter running north,)<br/>
and was in ancient time surrounded<br/>
by a massive brick wall. But very<br/>
little of that wall is now to be seen.<br/>
The ruins of it have been removed to<br/>
aid in the formation of new brick<br/>
buildings not only in the market but<br/>
also on the palace mount. Two bridg-<br/>
es cross the river, the one most south-<br/>
erly being old fashioned and rude, the<br/>
other made after European style and<br/>
very tasty. This is about 80 yards long<br/>
and 10 wide, and connects the most<br/>
northern end of the market with good<br/>
carriage roads on the west side of the<br/>
river leading to the palace mount and<br/>
other mounts at the west and N. W.<br/>
of the town.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a stable of royal ponies<br/>
near the 6 country palaces of princes<br/>
and lords on the west side of the river<br/>
containing usually from 20 to 30<br/>
steeds of various grades; some of<br/>
them being small and but little spirited<br/>
and some large and full of mettle.<br/>
The establishment cannot properly be<br/>
called a livery stable, because the<br/>
horses are not kept there for hire, but<br/>
only for the use of the king and his<br/>
family and princes, nobles and lords.<br/>
Still it should be said to the praise of<br/>
His Majesty and his ministers in<br/>
charge, that no European or Ameri-<br/>
can is prohibited the privilege of em-<br/>
ploying those ponies if properly ap-<br/>
plied for, and with a moderate remu-<br/>
neration to the keepers for their troub-<br/>
le.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are several very pleasant<br/>
routes on which a party may have a<br/>
horse back-ride or a drive in a buggy<br/>
or palanquin on good roads of many<br/>
miles even in the wet season, but in<br/>
the dry season they may ride their<br/>
ponies in every direction and to any<br/>
extent all over the paddy fields. The<br/>
road to Ków Lóđang is one among<br/>
several others made for the king's es-<br/>
pecial accommodation and consequently<br/>
a good one of about two miles. It<br/>
runs nearly due north from the palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
mount. Having passed one third of<br/>
the distance, you come to a precipi-<br/>
tons mount of rocks called Kôw P'ra-nom<br/>
qua the sacred mount, being not<br/>
less than 60 feet high with a base<br/>
of not more, probably, than 30 rods<br/>
in circumference. As usual for all<br/>
mountain peaks, it has been crowned<br/>
with a pagola, and its base furnished<br/>
with a few buildings for the accomo-<br/>
dation of Buddhist priests and their<br/>
followers who would worship Buddh<br/>
there. While idolaters have done<br/>
what they could to make it a’omin-<br/>
able, God its maker has covered it<br/>
with his own beautiful shrubbery, and<br/>
by their rich foliage, interspersed with<br/>
trailing flowers, He speaks to man and<br/>
both invites and commands him to<br/>
worship only the almighty and etern-<br/>
al Spirit who filleth all immensity and<br/>
inhabiteth all eternity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The road to Kow Looang passes by<br/>
hundreds of rich paddy fields on either<br/>
side. When you come to the foot of<br/>
the mount a very unique road with<br/>
brick steps up a tolerably steep ac-<br/>
clivity through a delightful arbor of<br/>
the lan toms will invite you strongly<br/>
to ascend it, and you will do well to<br/>
comply. It will lead you up a hund-<br/>
red rods or more to the great subterra-<br/>
nean idol galleries which the king<br/>
has caused to be swept and garnished<br/>
and replenished with idols at great<br/>
expense with the view of perpetuating<br/>
his name down many future ages as<br/>
being the most enlightened king which<br/>
Siam has ever had, and yet a stanch<br/>
Buddhist. In entering the cave<br/>
you descend by one of the natural<br/>
sky-light openings down a steep flight<br/>
of brick steps a distance of 90 feet<br/>
where you arrive, as it were, at the<br/>
ante-chamber, and here you are ush-<br/>
ered into the presence of giant gilded<br/>
images of Buddh, and what purports<br/>
to be a fac simile of all the wonder-<br/>
ful marks on the soles of his feet by<br/>
which his foot prints are ever certain-<br/>
ly identified. Thence you go down a<br/>
rather steep declivity 10 or 15 feet<br/>
through a narrow opening to the<br/>
great central circular hall which is<br/>
about 100 feet in diameter. It has a<br/>
natural sky-light directly over its cen-<br/>
tre appropriated wholly to itself, and<br/>
probably not less than 100 feet from<br/>
the floor. The opening at the top is<br/>
nearly a circle, and appears to be 10<br/>
feet in diameter. With this exception,<br/>
the arched roof of the hall is hung<br/>
with the most beautiful stalactites.<br/>
On the shrubbery growing around the<br/>
sky-light you may see monkeys gain-<br/>
bolling and ever and anon peering<br/>
down to see what you are doing in<br/>
that idolatrous pit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the left hand side of the central<br/>
hall as you come into it there is a<br/>
narrow avenue leading into another<br/>
apartment of that subterranean temple.<br/>
By the side of the dark passage on<br/>
your right hand as you enter it, lies in<br/>
a senseless state, like Buddh in Nip-<br/>
pan, an image of Buddh 20 feet in<br/>
length and otherwise suitably pro-<br/>
portioned. A narrow gate-way con-<br/>
ducts you into the 3d hall. This, too,<br/>
has its own natural sky-light. In this<br/>
apartment there is a little pagoda,<br/>
which the king built and honored<br/>
a few years since by depositing in it<br/>
with his own hands some little specks<br/>
of the supposed relics of Buddh’s<br/>
bones. They were probably picked<br/>
up in that hall, and identified as being<br/>
real relics by the little agitation they<br/>
are said to have manifested when<br/>
touched by lemon juice. Another test<br/>
said to be infallible, is, that a speck<br/>
of it when put into the eye will pro-<br/>
duce no irritation however long it may<br/>
remain. At the farther end of the<br/>
3d hall there is a long dark passage to<br/>
the old entrance which is said to be<br/>
haunted by ghosts and devils. One<br/>
of our Siamese girls on a certain time<br/>
when there with us, affirmed that she<br/>
then lost her pahome in a most mis-<br/>
terious way while gazing into that<br/>
dark passage. It was a human devil<br/>
no doubt that took it from her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Almost every nook and crevice of<br/>
these three caverns is occupied by a<br/>
gilded image of Buddh of various<br/>
dimensions, from that of the recum-<br/>
bent monster above mentioned, to<br/>
those of four inches in length. There<br/>
are many hundreds of them. Most of<br/>
the larger ones of the size of man and<br/>
children in their teens are sitting, while<br/>
the smaller are standing. In this pious<br/>
work of garnishing and replenishing<br/>
these halls with idols, many princes,<br/>
nobles, and lords have vied with one<br/>
another in their contributions to it and<br/>
have attached their names to the idols<br/>
which they have severally made. The<br/>
gilding on most of them seems to be<br/>
quite rich.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most truthful remark that can<br/>
be made of these things is, that they<br/>
are vile abominations, and abhorrent<br/>
in the sight of Jehovah the one living<br/>
and only true God. But the natural<br/>
scenery is rich and well worthy of<br/>
being studied by a christian student.<br/>
Amateurs in the natural sciences<br/>
will find in those caves and many<br/>
smaller ones in the same mount a<br/>
large and interesting field for inves-<br/>
tigation. Should we look into the<br/>
hundreds that are said to be in that<br/>
mount, we should, in all probability,<br/>
find every one a receptacle of images<br/>
of Buddh. It is a remarkable fact that<br/>
Buddhism always displays her piety<br/>
by consecrating to idolatry all the<br/>
caverns and peaks of rocky mountains.<br/>
If you will but for a moment take a<br/>
stroll of five minutes from these caves<br/>
to a commanding peak on the same<br/>
mount, you will see the ruins of an old<br/>
temple made of red free stone and<br/>
many mutilated images of Buddh and<br/>
imaginary celestial beings as large as<br/>
an adult Siamese, in all imaginable<br/>
positions and conditions of disgrace.<br/>
We once took the head of one of<br/>
them and brought it openly down the<br/>
hill and exhibited it to a company of<br/>
men who were employed in refitting<br/>
the great caverns. They took not<br/>
the least exception to our carrying<br/>
the head home with us, and seemed<br/>
to consider the affair as a pleasant<br/>
joke. O for the almighty Spirit's<br/>
quickening power to turn this deluded<br/>
people "from darkness to light and<br/>
from the power of satan unto God!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
A trip down the western
coast of the Gulf.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam Gun-boat "Impregnable"<br/>
commander, Capt. Walrond, left Bang-<br/>
kok about the latter end of June and<br/>
proceeded to Pinn a populous fishing<br/>
village at the mouth of the river of<br/>
that name, and distant from the Bar<br/>
about 80 miles. From thence she<br/>
proceeded to Champon, calling at Koh<br/>
Lak on the way down. There is a<br/>
small village at the mouth of the<br/>
Champon River, but the town of<br/>
Champon is about five hours journey<br/>
distant. Captain Walrond stayed here<br/>
three or four days, and then proceed-<br/>
ed to Lakhon. This province is well<br/>
populated and Rice, Cotton, and Su-<br/>
gar cane are cultivated. Tin can also<br/>
be obtained here. A journey of 5 or<br/>
8 hours brings one to the town where<br/>
there are several ruined Wats—one in<br/>
particular surrounded by an extensive<br/>
brick wall in a good state of preser-<br/>
vation. Extensive preparations were<br/>
being made for the burning of the<br/>
late Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Singora, where the steamer next<br/>
stopped, has a good bazaar, and ap-<br/>
pears to be the market for the pro-<br/>
duce of the neighboring provinces. A<br/>
Danish schooner the "Johanna" was in<br/>
Port and loading with Rice for Amoy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kalantan appears to be a very pros-<br/>
perous and populous province. It is<br/>
inhabited by Malaya, and there are al-<br/>
so a few Chinamen engaged in gold<br/>
diggings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A great number of Malay Proas<br/>
trade between this place and Singa-<br/>
pore and, besides Rice, Betel-nut, and<br/>
other produce, carry great numbers of<br/>
cattle, sheep and fowls for the market<br/>
at the latter place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is said that large quantities of gold,<br/>
tin, and copper may be obtained at<br/>
Kalantan and the neighbouring pro-<br/>
vinces.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The natives say, however, that the<br/>
gold-mines at Bankapang, which is<br/>
above Lakhon, are the most extensive,<br/>
but that the jungle devils are so very<br/>
ferocious that the greater number of<br/>
those who go there are attacked with<br/>
fever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Gun-boat arrived at Tringanu<br/>
about the 9th of July and the same<br/>
day the Captain went in search of<br/>
some Piratical junks reported to be in<br/>
the neighbourhood of Tingeran River,<br/>
but failed to find any.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Tringanu more than 200 boats<br/>
are engaged in the fish trade. There<br/>
was a Siamese vessel in the River;<br/>
and a schooner built by the Governor,<br/>
but not yet finished, was moored op-<br/>
posite the Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer, having left Tringanu,<br/>
proceeded to Bangkok, calling at the<br/>
same ports on the way up, and reached<br/>
the Bar about the 22nd ult.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the voyage several suspi-<br/>
cious looking junks were stopped and<br/>
examined, but they all proved to be<br/>
peaceable trading vessels. {{< news/indent2 >}} Con.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Police Assaulted
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Wednesday last at 1 p.m. two<br/>
policemen arrested a Chinaman with<br/>
contraband opium, and were taking<br/>
him to the police station; but when a<br/>
little below Wat Koh the prisoner<br/>
threw himself down and, holding on to<br/>
a post refused to go further, at the same<br/>
time calling loudly for assistance.<br/>
When about fifty Chinamen armed<br/>
with spears, pikes, three pronged forks,<br/>
sharpened bamboos, and a variety of<br/>
other weapons suddenly appeared and<br/>
attacked the two police men cutting<br/>
open the head of the nearest; and leav-<br/>
ing him for dead, drove the other to<br/>
the nearest bridge, where he was joined<br/>
by three other policemen, who drew<br/>
their swords and accepted the challenge,<br/>
although only 5 to 50. But the nar-<br/>
rowness of the street saved the police<br/>
from being overpowered by numbers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The policemen knew that to turn and<br/>
run was certain death, therefore there<br/>
was no choice but to stand their<br/>
ground and fight, parrying the thrusts<br/>
and attacking in return until the<br/>
Chinese turned and fled, leaving pikes<br/>
and poles on the ground; they howev-<br/>
er succeeded in taking the prisoner<br/>
with them. The whole affair lasted<br/>
only a few minutes, and when the<br/>
main portion of the police reached<br/>
the spot all was over. One poor<br/>
fellow narrowly escaped being pierced<br/>
through by catching hold of a spear<br/>
and pushing it on one side. It however<br/>
pierced his clothes and his hands suf-<br/>
fered from the sharp instrument.<br/>
This is the same gang of Chinamen<br/>
who attacked the police on two former<br/>
occasions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As long as the Government receives<br/>
money for the Opium farm, it is bound<br/>
to protect it, and this can only be prop-<br/>
erly done with the assistance of the<br/>
Police. It should also support and<br/>
protect the police from being assaulted<br/>
whenever John Chinaman can bring<br/>
ten to one against the Police.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Phra Ratrong Moong and Mr. Poh<br/>
Yim has taken the case in hand, and<br/>
I am happy to say is dealing fairly<br/>
with it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Five of the Police were wounded<br/>
and six Chinamen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chinamen ought to be severely<br/>
punished for the unlawful and cowardly<br/>
way in which they attack the Police<br/>
on the principle that might is right<br/>
whenever they wish to release a friend<br/>
from custody.—-Com.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Died.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 5th inst in this city of con-<br/>
vulsions, the infant son of Henry<br/>
Alabaster Esquire, Interpreter to the<br/>
British Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Capt. J. Bush harbor Master and Mas-<br/>
ter Attendant, left the city with all his<br/>
family on the 4th inst. to try the<br/>
virtues of the New Sanitarium at Ang-<br/>
hin. We hope that he will return<br/>
shortly and bring a good report of it.<br/>
Doubtless he will find many things<br/>
that can and should be improved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE BANGKOK MATERNAL ASSOCI-<br/>
ATION meet on the 2nd Tuesday of<br/>
every month. Their next meeting will<br/>
be at the house of Rev. S. J. Smith at<br/>
3 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The foreign ladies of Bangkok have<br/>
recently formed themselves into a So-<br/>
ceity denominated THE LADIES BAZAAR<br/>
SOCIETY. The Society meet semi-<br/>
monthly on Thursdays about noon<br/>
and continue in session till 5 P. M.<br/>
The meeting this day was at Mrs<br/>
Bradley's being. conducted by Mrs<br/>
Chandler.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a very pleasing fact that the<br/>
society of European and American<br/>
ladies in this heathen city is steadily<br/>
increasing. They now number about<br/>
82 persons, 8 of whom are widows—-<br/>
7 single ladies, and 14 mothers—-hav-<br/>
ing in the aggregate 37 children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in<br/>
the English language every<br/>
Sabbath day at 4 p. m. in the Prot-<br/>
estant Chapel, situated on the bank<br/>
of the BORNEO COMPANY LIMIT-<br/>
ED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to at-<br/>
tend, and there is never any want<br/>
of free seats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference<br/>
meeting is held weekly at the house<br/>
of the person who is to preach in<br/>
the Prot. Chapel the next Sabbath<br/>
day, to which all are invited. The<br/>
hour of prayer is 4 p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prot. Missionaries supply<br/>
the pulpit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Courrier de Paris
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From our own Correspondent.
Paris 18th June 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An opera composed from the "Ara-<br/>
bian nights" tales-—Zilda and Mon-<br/>
sieur de Flotou—-Story of a Dove<br/>
and a parrot—-The new opera by Mons.<br/>
Gounod—-Cendrillon at the Chatelet—-<br/>
260th anniversary of the birth of Cor-<br/>
neille—-The Chinese Ambassadors—-<br/>
Suicide—-The Parisian rats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Summer has at last come upon us—-<br/>
with one bound we have passed from<br/>
bitter east winds and cold rain, to the<br/>
full blaze of a summer sun. The<br/>
streets of our capital are dry and dus-<br/>
ty and the Parisians are seeking refuge<br/>
in the country in order to breathe a<br/>
little fresh air.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our theatres are becoming daily<br/>
more and more deserted and neverthe-<br/>
less several of our literary authors<br/>
have deemed the moment a fitting one,<br/>
to present some new pieces to the pub-<br/>
lic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus the opera Comique has late-<br/>
ly given the first performance of a new<br/>
opera, by Flotou entitled Zilda—the<br/>
plot of this play is taken from the "A-<br/>
rabian nights" and has nothing very<br/>
striking about it—-the music however<br/>
is bright and sparkling and the piece<br/>
has been very well received.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The same theatre also a few days<br/>
ago produced a new piece by Gounod<br/>
the author of the well known opera<br/>
Faust "La Colombe" as the play is<br/>
called, it is more properly speaking an<br/>
Operetta than an Opera, and is the<br/>
story of a wonderful "Dove" the pro-<br/>
perty of the owner of the piece. A<br/>
young girl with whom the hero is in<br/>
love is cruelly tormented by a Parrot<br/>
which belongs to one of her rivals.<br/>
By means of the gentle Dove, the fair<br/>
lady is delivered from her enemy, and<br/>
the play ends as most plays end by<br/>
happiness and marriage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The theatre of the Chatelet has at<br/>
last eclipsed that of the Porte St. Mar-<br/>
tin, by the production of a new piece<br/>
feerique entitled Cendrillon which<br/>
out-rivals in splendour the Biche au<br/>
Bois.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Alas we must own with shame, that<br/>
we live in a very degenerate age, our<br/>
Parisian public no longer cares for the<br/>
intellectual, and we are far from the<br/>
days when the first representation of a<br/>
new play was hissed or applauded ac-<br/>
cording as it displayed more or less<br/>
talent on the part of the author. For<br/>
a play now-a-days to have a successful<br/>
run in our Paris theatre, it must be<br/>
resplendent, not with talent, but with<br/>
magnificent tableaux, rich dresses, lights<br/>
etc. which strike the eye and mask the<br/>
puerile nature of the plot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is true, that there still exists a<br/>
small number of persons who have a<br/>
love of the true literature of the stage<br/>
and have not yet learned to scoff at the<br/>
writings of Moliere, Racine and<br/>
Corneille.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These chosen few, a short time ago,<br/>
celebrated the 260th anniversary of<br/>
the birth of Corneille by the represen-<br/>
tation of the "Cid" at the Theatre Fran-<br/>
cais in which the great Italian trajedian<br/>
Rossi performed with great success.<br/>
After the play was ended the bust<br/>
of Corneille was solemnly crowned with<br/>
flowers amidst thunders of applause.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The financial world of Paris has<br/>
been lately much occupied with an af-<br/>
fair of forgery, on which a well known<br/>
banker Mons. Richard plays the princi-<br/>
pal role. It appears that the above<br/>
named gentleman had endorsed forged<br/>
bills of exchange, for the amount of<br/>
nearly four millions of francs. Find-<br/>
ing that the affair was discovered and<br/>
that it was impossible for him to es-<br/>
cape the hands of justice, M. Richard<br/>
went to a Maison des Bains where he<br/>
endeavored to commit suicide, 1st by<br/>
hanging himself with his cravat, 2nd<br/>
by opening his veins with a pen knife,<br/>
and third by drowning himself in the<br/>
bath. In each of these attempts he<br/>
was unsuccessful and whilst in the act<br/>
of endeavouring to drown himself, the<br/>
door of the bathroom was burst open<br/>
by the police and he was conveyed to<br/>
the prison of Mazras where he now<br/>
awaits his trial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Imaginations gorgeous hue,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The rainbow of the brain."<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}These magnificent robes, which fill-<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
We have a great idea here in France<br/>
of the civilisation of the Chinese par-<br/>
ticularly as regards the manufacture<br/>
of porcelaine and silks. The Chinese<br/>
envoys who have lately arrived in Eu-<br/>
rope, excited universal admiration du-<br/>
ring their stay in Paris by the richness<br/>
of their dresses and the brilliancy of<br/>
the colors of the silks of which their<br/>
costumes were made.<br/>
ed our spectacle loving Parisians with<br/>
wonder and admiration, and caused<br/>
them to extul the superiority of Ce-<br/>
lestial workmanship were all, simply<br/>
the produce of one of our great manu-<br/>
factories at Lyons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The truth is that when the Chinese<br/>
envoys arrived in Paris—they discov-<br/>
ered to their great dismay that their<br/>
costumes had been so saturated with<br/>
salt water during their long voy-<br/>
age as to be utterly ruined, where-<br/>
at they were plunged into despair.<br/>
However the landlord of the Grand<br/>
Hotel, came to their aid. By his advice<br/>
orders were immediately dispatched to<br/>
Lyons for a quantity of rich silk, and<br/>
after a few days our celestial friends<br/>
were enabled to make their appearance<br/>
in the street of our capital, clothed in<br/>
the above named robes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our Paris papers have for the last<br/>
few days been filled with accounts<br/>
of the devastations caused by the<br/>
rats—the vast demolitions which are<br/>
being carried on, force these animals<br/>
to change their quarters and those per-<br/>
sons who happen to be in the streets at<br/>
a late hour of the night, frequently<br/>
meet with whole troops of rats in full<br/>
march to seek a new home, where they<br/>
may have a little rest and quiet
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A Few Clear Things for Little<br/>
Readers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if I never drink<br/>
intoxicating liquors, I shall never become<br/>
a drunkard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if I never use in-<br/>
toxicating drink, I shall never be guilty<br/>
of helping to make others drunkards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if I never go into<br/>
drinking companies, I shall escape many<br/>
of the temptations and snares that are<br/>
laid for the young.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if I drink intoxica-<br/>
ting liquors frequently, I may learn to<br/>
like it, and become a drunkard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that all drunkards were<br/>
once moderate drinkers, and only become<br/>
drunkards by degrees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that moderate drinking<br/>
is the fountain from which all drunken-<br/>
ness flows, the school in which all drunk-<br/>
ards are trained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if there was no<br/>
moderate drinking, there would be no<br/>
drunkenness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if the drunkard<br/>
would be reclaimed, he must abstain from<br/>
that which has made and which keeps<br/>
him a drunkard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that if the drunkard<br/>
thus abstains, he will be reformed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that if I would set him<br/>
a good example, in order to reform him,<br/>
I must myself abstain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if all men abstain-<br/>
ed, there would be no drunkenness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is very clear that, if men continue<br/>
to drink as they do now, drunkards will<br/>
abound and drunkenness continue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What thing can be clearer, then, than<br/>
this, that it is my duty to abstain?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And next to this, it is very clear that<br/>
I ought to try and get all my companions<br/>
and playmates to abstain too, that they<br/>
though now drinking moderately, may<br/>
never be led on to drunkenness.—-Lo. Co.<br/>
News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
What Young People
Should Know.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The best inheritance which parents can<br/>
give their children, is the ability to help<br/>
and take care of themselves. This is bet-<br/>
ter than a hundred thousand dollars apiece.<br/>
In any trouble or difficulty, they have<br/>
two excellent servants in the shape of two<br/>
hands. Those who can do nothing, and<br/>
have to be waited upon, are helpless and<br/>
easily disheartened in the misfortunes of<br/>
life. Those who are active and hardy,<br/>
meet troubles with a cheerful face, and<br/>
easily surmount them. Let young people,<br/>
therefore, learn to do as many things as<br/>
possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Everybody should know, sooner or<br/>
later;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. To dress himself, black his own<br/>
boots, cut his brother's hair, wind a watch,<br/>
sew on a button, make a bed, and keep<br/>
the clothes in order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. To harness a horse, grease a wagon,<br/>
and harness a team.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. To carve fowls and meat, and wait<br/>
on the table.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. To milk the cows, shear the sheep,<br/>
and dress a veal or mutton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. To reckon money and keep accounts<br/>
correctly, and according to book-keeping<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. To write a neat and appropriate<br/>
briefly expressed business letter in a good<br/>
hand, fold and superscribe it properly,<br/>
and write contracts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
7. To plow, sow grain and grass, drive<br/>
a mowing machine, build a neat stack,<br/>
and pitch hay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
8. To put up a package, build a fire,<br/>
mend a broken tool, whitewash a wall,<br/>
and regulate a clock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every girl should know how—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. To sew and knit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. To mend clothes neatly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. To make beds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. To dress her own hair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. To wash the dishes, and sweep the<br/>
carpets.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. To make good bread, and perform<br/>
plain cooking.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
7. To keep her room, drawer, and<br/>
closets, in order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
8. To work a sewing machine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
9. To make butter and cheese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
10. To make a dress and children's<br/>
clothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
11. To keep accounts, and calculate<br/>
interest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
12. To write, fold, and superscribe let-<br/>
ters properly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
13. To nurse the sick effectually, and<br/>
not faint at the sight of a drop of blood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
14. To be ready to render efficient aid<br/>
to those in trouble, and in an unostenta-<br/>
tious way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
15. To receive and entertain visitors<br/>
in the absence or sickness of her mother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A young lady who can do all these<br/>
things well, and is always ready to render<br/>
aid to the afflicted, and mitigate the per-<br/>
plexities of those around her, will bring<br/>
more comfort to others, and be more<br/>
esteemed, than if she knew how to dance,<br/>
sing, and play on the piano.—-Lo.<br/>
Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Miscellanaeous.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-One hundred and ninety-eight cler-<br/>
gy of the Church of England, deans,<br/>
canons, parish priests, and other priests,<br/>
have been in correspondence with the<br/>
cardinal Secretary of the Holy Office at<br/>
Rome, otherwise known as the Inquisition.<br/>
The design of this association is to promote<br/>
the reunion of the Anglican with the<br/>
Roman Catholic Church.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The N. Y., Advocate of recent date<br/>
says:—-Our columns this week include<br/>
the statistics of 4300 recent conversions<br/>
and accessions. The revival work is<br/>
earnest and wide spread.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Why Hogs eat Ashes, Etc.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Mechi, of Tip-Tree Hall, Eng-<br/>
land, has discovered that pigs, when shut<br/>
up to fatten, are fond of cinders, and<br/>
improve in condition by eating a certain<br/>
portion of them every day. Some persons<br/>
are unable to account for this singular<br/>
propensity in swine. Poultry are very<br/>
fond of eggshells, lime, sand, etc., and it<br/>
is well-known these substances are neces-<br/>
sary in order to form the shell of eggs,<br/>
and to furnish materials for the bones of<br/>
fowls. Is it not reasonable to suppose<br/>
that swine eat ashes and cinders for the<br/>
purpose of supplying materials for their<br/>
bones, and this singular instinct for ani-<br/>
mals so low in the scale of intelligence, is<br/>
truly wonderful; for ashes contain the<br/>
ingredients which are necessary to form<br/>
bones, viz: clay, silica gelatinized, and<br/>
made soluble by fire. When hogs are at<br/>
large, they take in clay and silica with<br/>
their food, and eat bones and roots which<br/>
contain the necessary ingredients; but<br/>
when they are pent up, they endeavour to<br/>
supply the materials necessary for keep-<br/>
ing up their frames, by devouring ashes<br/>
and cinders. Let them have plenty of<br/>
them.—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Horses.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Horses I learned to govern by the law<br/>
of love. The relation of friendship once<br/>
established between man and horse, there<br/>
is no trouble. A CENTAUR is created.<br/>
The man wills whither; the horse, at the<br/>
will of his better half, does his best to go<br/>
thither. I became, very early, Hippoda-<br/>
mos, not by force but by kindness. All<br/>
lower beings—fiendish beings apart—un-<br/>
less spoiled by treachery, seek the society<br/>
of the higher; as man, by nature loves<br/>
God. Horses do all they know for man,<br/>
if man will only let them. All they need<br/>
is a slight hint to help their silly, willing<br/>
brains, and they dash with order at their<br/>
business of galloping a mile a minute, or<br/>
twenty miles an hour or of leaping a gal-<br/>
ling or pulling tonnage. They put so much<br/>
rock-less, break-neck frenzy in their at-<br/>
tempts to please and obey the royal per-<br/>
sonage on their back, that he needs to be<br/>
brave, indeed, to go thoroughly with them<br/>
—-JOHN BARNT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Onions and Poultry.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scarcely too much can be said in praise<br/>
of onions for fowls. They seem to be a<br/>
preventive and remedy for various dis-<br/>
eases to which domestic fowls are liable.<br/>
Having frequently tested their excellen-<br/>
cies, we can speak understandingly. For<br/>
gapes and inflammation of the throat,<br/>
eyes,—-and head, onions are almost a<br/>
specific. We would therefore, recom-<br/>
mend giving fowls, and especially young<br/>
chickens, as many as they will eat, as of-<br/>
ten as twice a week.—-They should be<br/>
finely chopped. A small addition of<br/>
cornmeal is an improvement.—-Genessee<br/>
Farmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Testimony to Missions from
an Unexpected Quarter.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would be difficult to find a volume<br/>
which cuts more completely across the<br/>
silly popular platitude that missions to<br/>
the heathen are useless, and that the wise<br/>
should confine themselves to our own<br/>
heathen at home. It is strange that, if a<br/>
man goes merely to hunt, or to make<br/>
geographical discoveries, he is loudly ap-<br/>
pleaded by the very people who speak<br/>
slightingly of missionaries. To bring<br/>
home hundreds of tusks, and teeth, and<br/>
skins, or to show where a river rises, and<br/>
what is the altitude of a mountain range,<br/>
is thought a noble achievement ; but to<br/>
have crossed the plains where the eleph-<br/>
ants range, and to have ascended those<br/>
unknown heights in order to give the<br/>
greatest of blessings to the men who live<br/>
there, is thought Quixotic, and deroga-<br/>
tory to the wisdom of civilized man. The<br/>
real facts are just the other way.-—LON-<br/>
DON SATURDAY REVIEW.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To Prevent the Loss of Aro-
ma in Roasting Coffee.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The berries of coffee once roasted,<br/>
lose every hour somewhat of their aroma,<br/>
in consequence of the influence of the<br/>
oxygen of the air, which, owing to the<br/>
porosity of the roasted berries, it can<br/>
easily penetrate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This pernicious change may best be<br/>
avoided by strewing over the berries,<br/>
when the roasting is completed, and while<br/>
the vessel in which it has been done is<br/>
still hot, some powdered white or brown<br/>
sugar (half an ounce to one pound of<br/>
coffee is sufficient). The sugar melts im-<br/>
mediately, and by well shaking or turning<br/>
the toaster quickly, it spreads over all<br/>
the berries, and gives each one a fine<br/>
glaze, impervious to the atmosphere.<br/>
They have then a shining appearance, as<br/>
though covered with a varnish, and they<br/>
in consequence lose their smell entirely,<br/>
which, however, returns in a high degree<br/>
as soon as they are ground.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this operation, they are to be<br/>
shaken out rapidly from the toaster and<br/>
spread out on a cold plate of iron, so that<br/>
they may cool as soon as possible. If the<br/>
hot berries are allowed to remain heaped<br/>
together, they begin to sweat, and when<br/>
the quantity is large, the heating process,<br/>
by the influence of air, increases to such<br/>
a degree that at last they take fire spon-<br/>
taneously. The roasted and glazed ber-<br/>
ries should be kept in a dry place, be-<br/>
cause the covering of sugar attracts mois-<br/>
ture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For special cases, such as journeys and<br/>
marches, where it is impossible to be<br/>
burdened with the necessary machines<br/>
for roasting and grinding, coffee may be<br/>
carried in a powdered form, and its aro-<br/>
matic properties preserved by the follow-<br/>
ing process :—One pound of the roasted<br/>
berries are reduced to powder, and im-<br/>
mediately wetted with a sirup of sugar,<br/>
obtained by pouring on three ounces of<br/>
sugar two ounces of water, letting them<br/>
stand a few minutes. When the powder<br/>
is thoroughly wetted with the sirup, two<br/>
ounces of finely-powdered sugar are to<br/>
be added, mixed well with it, and the<br/>
whole is then to be spread out in the air<br/>
to dry. The sugar locks up the volatile<br/>
parts of the coffee, so that when it is dry<br/>
they cannot escape. If coffee is now to<br/>
be made, cold water is to be poured over<br/>
a certain quantity of the powder, and<br/>
made to boil. Ground coffee prepared in<br/>
this way, and which lay exposed to the<br/>
air for one month, yielded on being boil-<br/>
ed as good a beverage as one made of<br/>
freshly-roasted berries.—-LIEBIO.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Meeting at the Top.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A hundred years ago, and more, a nu-<br/>
merous body of Presbyterians who had<br/>
seceded from the Established Church of<br/>
Scotland, was split in two on a quarrel<br/>
about a clause in the oath required of the<br/>
freemen of certain Scottish boroughs,<br/>
which expressed "their hearty allowance<br/>
of the true religion at present professed<br/>
within the realm, and authorized by the<br/>
laws thereof." The party who held that<br/>
the oath might be conscientiously taken by<br/>
seceders were called "Burghers," and their<br/>
opponents "Anti-burghers." Johnny Mor-<br/>
ton, a keen Burgher, and Andrew Gebbie,<br/>
a decided Anti-burgher, both lived in the<br/>
same house, but at opposite ends, and it<br/>
was the bargain that each should keep his<br/>
own side of the house well thatched.<br/>
When the dispute about the principle of<br/>
their kirks, and especially the offensive<br/>
clause in the oath, grew hot, the two neigh-<br/>
bours ceased to speak to each other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But one day they happened to be on the<br/>
roof at the same time, each repairing the<br/>
thatch in the slope of the roof on his own<br/>
side, and when they had worked up to the<br/>
top, there they were face to face. They<br/>
could not flee, so at last Andrew took off<br/>
his cap, and scratching his head, said,<br/>
"Johnnie, you and me, I think, has been<br/>
very foolish to dispute, as we has done,<br/>
concerning Christ's will about our kirks,<br/>
until we has clean forgot His will about<br/>
ourselves; and so we has fought sae bitter-<br/>
ly for what we ca' the truth, that it has<br/>
ended in spite. What ever's wrang, it's<br/>
perfectly certain that it never can be<br/>
right to be uncivil, unneighbourly, unkind,<br/>
in fac, tae hate ane anither. Na, na, that's<br/>
the deevil's work, and no God's. Noo, it<br/>
strikes me that may be it's wi' the kirk as<br/>
wi' this house; your working on ae side<br/>
and me on the ither, but if we only do<br/>
our work weel, we will meet at the tap at<br/>
last. Gie's your hand, auld neighbour!"<br/>
And so they shook han', and were the best<br/>
o' freens ever after.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
"A Pennsylvania seven year old was<br/>
reproved lately for playing out-door<br/>
with boys; she was 'too big for that<br/>
now.' But with all imaginable inno-<br/>
cence she replied: 'Why, Grandma,<br/>
the bigger we grow, the better we<br/>
like 'em!' Grandma took time to<br/>
think."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is well to leave, something for<br/>
those who come after us," as the gen-<br/>
tleman said who throw a barrel in<br/>
the way of a constable who was chas-<br/>
ing him.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Mute Detective.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No dogs admitted, sir," said the port-<br/>
er to a gay assemblage, as a young man<br/>
appeared at the entrance. "You must<br/>
leave him behind if you go in."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Very well," said the young man.<br/>
"Stay about here, Prince, till I come<br/>
back."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And he joined the crowd within; but<br/>
by and by the young man wished to re-<br/>
fer to his watch, when behold! the chain<br/>
had been snapped in two, and the valuable<br/>
time-piece was gone. He considered the<br/>
case a moment and then a sudden thought<br/>
flashed in his mind. So, stepping out,<br/>
he whispered the fact to the porter, and<br/>
gained permission to take his dog in for<br/>
a minute or two.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Look here, Prince," said he, "you<br/>
knowing dog, my watch is stolen;" and<br/>
he showed him the empty pocket and the<br/>
cut chain. "Do you understand, old<br/>
fellow? In there, sir, is the thief. You<br/>
find it my good doggie, and I'll get you<br/>
a famous treat. You understand, do<br/>
you?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prince wagged his head and tail, and<br/>
gave his master a wonderful knowing<br/>
look, and then he stole quietly into the<br/>
place again. Quietly this dumb detective<br/>
glided around among the people, smelling<br/>
at this one's chain, until at last he sets<br/>
his teeth into the coat tail of a genteel-<br/>
looking man, and could not be shaken<br/>
off. The young man quietly made known<br/>
the case to the bystanders who gathered<br/>
around him, and he had the thief's pocket<br/>
duly searched. Six other watches were<br/>
found upon him, which he had gathered<br/>
up in course of the morning, and which<br/>
the rightful owners were glad to get<br/>
their hands on again. Prince selected<br/>
out his master's property in a twinkling,<br/>
as that was all he cared for and he gave<br/>
it to him joyfully. It would have taken<br/>
a very keen police to do work so neatly<br/>
and quickly; and all agreed that he<br/>
merited as good a dinner as a dog could<br/>
have. A good beef bone and a bowl of<br/>
milk satisfied his wants, and then he was<br/>
just as ready to do the same favor again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Marrying for Show.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To the question often asked of young<br/>
men as to why they do not marry, we<br/>
sometimes hear the reply, "I am not able<br/>
to support a wife." In one case in three,<br/>
perhaps, this may be so; but, as a general<br/>
thing, the true reply would be, "I am<br/>
not able to support the style in which I<br/>
think my wife ought to live." In this<br/>
again we see a false view of marriage—-a<br/>
looking to an appearance in the world,<br/>
instead of a union with a loving woman<br/>
for her own sake. There are very few<br/>
men of industrious habits, who cannot<br/>
maintain a wife, if they are willing to<br/>
live economically, and without reference<br/>
to the opinion of the world. The great<br/>
evil is, they are not content to begin life<br/>
humble, to retire together into an obscure<br/>
position, and together work their way in<br/>
the world-—he by industry in his calling,<br/>
and she by dispensing with prudence the<br/>
money that he earns. But they must<br/>
stand out and attract the attention of<br/>
others by the fine houses and fine clothes.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Musk.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress Josephine was very fond<br/>
of perfumes, and, above all, of musk. Her<br/>
dressing-room at Malmaison was filled<br/>
with it, in spite of Napoleon's frequent<br/>
remonstrances. Forty years have elapsed<br/>
since her death, and the present owner of<br/>
Malmaison has had the walls of that dress-<br/>
ing-room repeatedly washed and painted ;<br/>
but neither scrubbing, aquafortis, nor<br/>
paint has been sufficient to remove the<br/>
smell of the good Empress's musk, which<br/>
continues as strong as if the bottle which<br/>
contained it had been but yesterday re-<br/>
moved.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
True Cheerfulness.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Along with humility, we should culti-<br/>
vate cheerfulness. Humility has no con-<br/>
nexion with pensive melancholy, or timo-<br/>
rous dejection. While the truly humble<br/>
guard against the distraction of all vio-<br/>
lent passions and inordinate cares, they<br/>
cherish a cheerful disposition of mind.<br/>
There cannot, indeed, be genuine cheerful-<br/>
ness without the approbation of our own<br/>
heart. While, however, we pay a sacred<br/>
regard to conscience, it must be enlighten-<br/>
ed and directed by reason and revelation.<br/>
And happy are the individuals who can<br/>
say: "Our rejoicing is this, the testimony<br/>
of our conscience, that, in simplicity and<br/>
godly sincerity, we have had our conversa-<br/>
tion in the world." An approving mind<br/>
will contribute greatly to cheerfulness,<br/>
and that equanimity which results from it,<br/>
from trust in God, and from the hope of a<br/>
blessed immortality, is equally remote<br/>
from sour dissatisfaction, desponding<br/>
melancholy, and frivolous hilarity. It<br/>
smooths our path and sweetens our cup,<br/>
rendering duty easy and affliction light.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PACIFIC
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Good Security.—Two young men<br/>
commenced the sail-making business at<br/>
Philadelphia. They bought a lot of duck<br/>
from Stephen Girard on credit, and a friend<br/>
had engaged to endorse for them. Each<br/>
caught a roll, and was carrying it off,<br/>
when Girard remarked; "Had you 'not<br/>
better get a dray?" "No; it is not far,<br/>
and we can carry it ourselves." "Tell<br/>
your friend he needn't endorse your note.<br/>
I will take it without."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-09_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—To cure Dyspepsia, take a new axe,<br/>
put a white hickory handle in it, bore a<br/>
hole in the top of the handle, fill the hole<br/>
with gum camphor, and seal it up—Then<br/>
take the axe and cut cord wood until the<br/>
heat of the handle dissolves the camphor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The lady who did not think it res-<br/>
pectable to bring up her children to work,<br/>
has lately heard from her two sons.<br/>
One of them is a barkeeper on a flat-boat,<br/>
and the other is steward in a brick yard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-One of the best bits ever made, at<br/>
an impropriety in a lady's dress, was made<br/>
by Tallyrand. During the revolution,<br/>
when asked by a lady his opinion of her<br/>
dress, he replied, “it began too late and<br/>
ended too soon.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—As one single drop of black ink will<br/>
tinge and pollute a vessel of crystal water,<br/>
so one little act of faithlessness may ir-<br/>
redeemably poison a whole life time of the<br/>
purest friendship and confidence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The Marquis d'Harcourt walking<br/>
arm-in-arm with Voltaire, a person took<br/>
off his hat to the marquis, who returned<br/>
the salute. “Why did you bow to that<br/>
fellow,” says Voltaire, “he is one of the<br/>
greatest blackguards of the day.” “What<br/>
of that?” replied the marquis, “I would<br/>
not allow a blackguard to out-do me as a<br/>
gentleman.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A rural genius has invented a plan<br/>
to prevent chickens from scratching<br/>
gardens. The plan is to secure a stick<br/>
to the heels of the fowl, so that as the<br/>
foot is raised the stick falls and strikes<br/>
the ground, throwing the chicken for-<br/>
ward. Repeated efforts to scratch will<br/>
cause the chickens to walk clear out of<br/>
the garden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—John Randolph met a personal en-<br/>
emy in the street one day, who refused<br/>
to give him half the side walk, saying<br/>
that he never turned out for a rascal.<br/>
“I do!” said Randolph, stepping aside,<br/>
and politely raising his hat; “pass on,<br/>
sir—pass on, sir!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—President Lincoln used to tell this<br/>
story of himself. He was riding one day<br/>
on the top of a stage-coach in Illinois,<br/>
when the driver asked him to “treat.”<br/>
“I never use liquor,” was Mr. Lincoln's<br/>
reply, “and I cannot induce others to do<br/>
so.” “Don't you chew neither?” said<br/>
the driver. “No sir; I never use tobac-<br/>
co in any form. “Well,” remarked the<br/>
disgusted John, “I hain't got much<br/>
opinion of these fellows with no small<br/>
vices; they usually make it up in big<br/>
ones.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“Do make yourself at home, ladies,”<br/>
said a lady one day to her visitors. “I am<br/>
at home myself, and wish you were.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—An English paper has the following<br/>
remark about the length of the speeches<br/>
made in Parliament, which is applicable<br/>
to the efforts of many of our public men:<br/>
“If some of the speeches of our states-<br/>
men do not teach down to posterity, it<br/>
will not be because they are not long<br/>
enough.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—“Wife what has become of the<br/>
grapes?” “I suppose, my dear, the hens<br/>
picked them off,” was her moderate reply.<br/>
“Hens—hens—some two legged hens, I<br/>
guess,” said her husband with some im-<br/>
petuosity, to which she calmly replied,<br/>
“My dead, did you ever see any other<br/>
kind?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Every morning we enter upon a new<br/>
day which carries a yet unknown future<br/>
in its bosom. Thoughts may be born to-day<br/>
which may never expire; hopes may be<br/>
excited which may never be extinguished;<br/>
and acts may be performed to-day, the<br/>
consequence of which cannot be realised<br/>
till that day when the “secrets of all<br/>
hearts shall be made known.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The Savior has, indeed, said “nar-<br/>
row is the way that leadeth unto life.”<br/>
He has never told us, however, that it is<br/>
a thorny road. It is unbelief in and out<br/>
of the church, and not in God, that has<br/>
represented it as such a road. In denying<br/>
ourselves and taking up the cross as re-<br/>
quired, Christ promises us not sorrow and<br/>
sighing, but joy unspeakable and full of<br/>
glory; not weariness, but rest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Sir Walter Scott once happening to<br/>
hear his daughter Anne say of something<br/>
that it was “vulgar,” gave the young<br/>
lady the following temperate rebuke:<br/>
“My love, you speak like a very young<br/>
lady. Do you know, after all, the mean-<br/>
ing of this word vulgar? Tis only com-<br/>
mon. Nothing that is common except<br/>
wickedness, can deserve to be spoken of<br/>
in a tone of contempt; and when you<br/>
have lived to my years, you will be dis-<br/>
posed to agree with me in thanking God<br/>
that nothing really worth having or car-<br/>
ing about in this world is uncommon.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Look out, lest by adorning the char-<br/>
acter of others you loose your own.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ALL persons having any de-<br/>
mands on the undersigned,<br/>
will present them for payment,<br/>
and all persons indebted to the<br/>
undersigned, are requested to<br/>
make payment, on or before, the<br/>
15th of August, or the same will<br/>
be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
