---
linkTitle: 'December 13rd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 13rd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 13rd'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 72
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, December 13th, 1866</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 49.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCTOBER 29TH (AFTERNOON):<br/>
Count Beust nominated Foreign Minister.<br/>
Saxon Sovereign returned to Dresden.<br/>
Another battle fought in Candia—ac-<br/>
count conflicting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, OCT. 31ST (AFTERNOON):—-A<br/>
banquet given to Mr. Bright at Dublin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Pope has delivered an Allocution<br/>
stating he is prepared to leave Rome if<br/>
necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Russia has abandoned Naval Establish-<br/>
ment at Sebastapol for Astracan factory.<br/>
Running drill introduced into our In-<br/>
fantry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Obstinate fighting in Candia—insurgents<br/>
defeated, and tendering submission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Severe fighting in Paraguay—Brazilians<br/>
repulsed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liverpool Cotton Market dull.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Increase in reserve of notes Bank of<br/>
England £250,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, NOV. 2ND (AFTERNOON):—-Mr.<br/>
Seward has written to Hon. F. Bruce urg-<br/>
ing amnesty for Fenian prisoners in Ca-<br/>
nada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Alleged Alliance forged (formed?) be-<br/>
tween Prussia and Russia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, NOV. 3RD (AFTERNOON):-—Rus-<br/>
sian Naval and Military Forces ordered to<br/>
be raised to full strength.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald has accepted<br/>
Governorship of Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liverpool Cotton Market firmer and<br/>
moderate demand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, NOV. 5TH (AFTERNOON):—-Re-<br/>
ported that America assumes Protectorate<br/>
in Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Circular published by Herr Beust, Aus-<br/>
trian Minister, stating his intention to a-<br/>
bandon political antecedents and that<br/>
Austrian policy is peaceful.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Excitement in Baltimore caused by il-<br/>
legality of Police Commissioner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 6TH NOV.—-Austrian Army be-<br/>
ing reorganised.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Troubles in Baltimore ended.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Davis’ trial postponed to next<br/>
Spring.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Manchester market quiet and prices<br/>
drooping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON, 7TH Nov.—-Prospectus of Agra<br/>
Bank issued-—Elyn [? Glyn] Mills appoint-<br/>
ed London agents over one-half of the<br/>
preference capital subscribed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Maximilian has abdicated the Mexican<br/>
throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The American Congress
Elections.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Unfortunately for the success of his<br/>
own policy, the President, quitting his<br/>
position as a moderator, descended to that<br/>
of a partisan, and, with a view to obtain a<br/>
national verdict in his favour, made a tour<br/>
of agitation, in the progress of which his<br/>
self-will became more conspicuous than<br/>
his sagacity as a statesman. He charac-<br/>
terised Congress as a “revolutionary body,”<br/>
and darkly hinted at overbearing its auth-<br/>
ority. This was too much for the law-abid-<br/>
ing people of the United States. What<br/>
might have been the result of the late<br/>
elections if Mr. Johnson had quietly allow-<br/>
ed them to turn on the merits of his plan<br/>
of reconstruction can only be conjectured,<br/>
but it was readily foreseen that his want<br/>
of self-restraint had so shaped the ques-<br/>
tion to be decided that it was impossible<br/>
he could win. And so it has turned out.<br/>
Strong as the last Congress was in opposi-<br/>
tion to his will, the next will be stronger.<br/>
He will not have a third of the votes in<br/>
either House in his favour. His power of<br/>
veto will cease to be of service to him. No<br/>
doubt, he will see the wisdom of accepting<br/>
the adverse decision of the nation, and<br/>
will conform his policy to it with as good<br/>
a grace as may be.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would savour of impertinence in us<br/>
to challenge the propriety of the verdict<br/>
which the people have thus solemnly given,<br/>
nor are we disposed to do so. We may be<br/>
permitted, however, to express our hope<br/>
that the South will acquiesce in this elec-<br/>
toral defeat as a final settlement of their<br/>
difference with the North. They cannot<br/>
reasonably indulge an expectation of re-<br/>
covering in the councils of the great Re-<br/>
public the ascendancy which they lost on<br/>
the battle-field. Difficult as it will doub-<br/>
tless be to re-fashion the structure of their<br/>
social system, it is perhaps the easiest of<br/>
the paths now open to them by which<br/>
they may regain their former prosperity.<br/>
That which is possible now may become<br/>
impossible hereafter. At any rate, and<br/>
whatever view they may take of their lot,<br/>
they can but waste their energies in per-<br/>
sisting to carry on a struggle with over-<br/>
whelming odds. They are summoned to<br/>
surrender nothing that is essential to their<br/>
own well-being. They will still retain all<br/>
the elements of true political indepen-<br/>
dence. Within the limits assigned by<br/>
justice and civil equality, they will still be<br/>
their own masters. Their relative place<br/>
and power in the Union will, after all, de-<br/>
pend chiefly upon themselves. Let us<br/>
trust that we have witnessed the last of<br/>
sectional contests, and that the stars and<br/>
stripes may hereafter float over one harm-<br/>
onious, thriving, and happy republic.-—LoN.<br/>
ILL. NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Difference, in a Nut-shell
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President insists that all that is<br/>
necessary for the rebel states to be entitled<br/>
to representation in Congress is that they<br/>
should send loyal men as Representatives.<br/>
Congress insists that the District which<br/>
sends the Representative shall also give<br/>
proof of loyalty as well. Else it is perti-<br/>
nently asked, what shall prevent the most<br/>
disloyal state from 'sending loyal repre-<br/>
sentatives for the sake of obtaining ad-<br/>
mission and then turning about and send-<br/>
ing open traitors as their successors?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have seen no answer to that ques-<br/>
tion, and it is one that reaches to the root<br/>
of the issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
John G. Whittier on Political
Affairs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following interesting letter from<br/>
the great Quaker poet, has been received<br/>
by the Secretary of the Republican State<br/>
Committee of Massachusetts. Let it be<br/>
set off against Mr. Beecher's purblind<br/>
views:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"AMESBURY, 8th mo., 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"DEAR SIR:—I regret that the state of<br/>
my health will not allow me the privilege<br/>
of accepting the invitation of the Repub-<br/>
lican State Committee of Massachusetts to<br/>
meet and welcome the southern loyalists<br/>
at Philadelphia on the third of next<br/>
month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
" My heart is with those noble men, who<br/>
came up from the hot furnace of rebellion<br/>
without the smell of its infernal fire on<br/>
their garments. I would like to say to<br/>
these, and through them to the people of<br/>
the States that we yield to none in the de-<br/>
sire for the restoration of these States to<br/>
their place in Congress, in the speediest<br/>
manner consistent with the safety of the<br/>
Union—in other words, whenever the<br/>
rights of all their inhabitants are secured,<br/>
and the monstrous inequality of represen-<br/>
tation growing out of slavery has been so<br/>
adjusted that a rebel in South Carolina<br/>
shall not have double the power of a loyal<br/>
man in one of the Northern States.—Mas-<br/>
sachusetts cherishes no hatred toward the<br/>
South; no representative of hers has with-<br/>
held his vote from appropriations for its<br/>
benefit on sectional grounds; no Mas-<br/>
sachusetts citizen has hesitated to mini-<br/>
ster to the necessities of Southern cities<br/>
under the calamities of plague or fire; the<br/>
same hands that aided the hunted loyalists<br/>
of East Tennessee have been extended to<br/>
feed the starving rebels of Savannah. We<br/>
have no desires of revenge to gratify, and<br/>
where, in the nature of things, we cannot<br/>
wholly forget, we are ready to forgive as<br/>
we would be forgiven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Trusting that it is not too late for my<br/>
place to be filled in the delegation, I am<br/>
very truly thy friend.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Russo-American Tele-
graph.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Intelligence received from Nicolajewsk<br/>
(Amoor) announces that three ships had<br/>
arrived there from Hamburg with mat-<br/>
erial for the construction of the Russo-<br/>
American Telegraph. The entire material<br/>
was in good condition. Another despatch,<br/>
dated Otchoak, Sept. 27, says:—-"The con-<br/>
struction of the Russo-American telegraph<br/>
line is rapidly progressing. The line is<br/>
being carried to Nicolajewsk, simultane-<br/>
ously from the Russian and American<br/>
sides. The erection of the telegraph poles<br/>
is partly completed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
U. S. S. Ashuelot.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She is 3 years old, constructed of iron,<br/>
and built in compartments or sections.<br/>
Her length overall is 250 feet, breadth 40<br/>
feet, and depth of hold 20 feet. Her<br/>
decks are planked with live oak, and her<br/>
bow and stern are alike, very sharp. Her<br/>
paddlewheels are fitted with patent floats.<br/>
Her armament is as follows:-—4 Dahlgren<br/>
60 pounders, each weighing, 6240 lbs.; 2<br/>
Rifle Parrot's 60 pounders, and 4 Brass<br/>
Howitzers. These latter mount on the<br/>
bridge. Her rate of speed is from 16 to<br/>
17 knots per hour, and she is fitted with a<br/>
hurricane deck.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Outlook.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is doubtful whether the pilgrim-<br/>
age of the President and his Premier<br/>
to the tomb of Douglas will prove<br/>
successful as an electioneering meas-<br/>
ure. The President's speeches are so<br/>
egotistical, vapid, repeated, and nu-<br/>
merous as to fall very flat. They are<br/>
more sickening than impressive. He<br/>
seems full of nothing but personal<br/>
vanities, boastful pretensions, and low<br/>
flings at radicals. His evident attempt<br/>
to appropriate to himself and his poli-<br/>
cy the huzzas of Grant and Farragut,<br/>
and the manifest wish to force those<br/>
heroes into some sort of an indorse-<br/>
ment of himself and his policy, do not<br/>
work in his favor, but the contrary.<br/>
He can not convince the people of the<br/>
North and West that he is on the Un-<br/>
ion platform, or is the same Andrew<br/>
Johnson that he was. He can never<br/>
have a congress to do his bidding.<br/>
Himself and his policy are failures.<br/>
The thunder of the radical majorities<br/>
will be heard at Washington, and the<br/>
threatened coup d'etat will never be<br/>
heard of after November. The Pres-<br/>
ident, it is believed, is too shrewd to<br/>
please the radicals so well as to at-<br/>
tempt such a French affair, and then<br/>
have to "walk Spanish."-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr SANDFORD, United States Consul<br/>
here, has received more news with<br/>
regard to the "small vessel," via, that<br/>
brought by a junk which arrived here<br/>
last evening from the Corea, reporting<br/>
that while entering harbor the master<br/>
was warned by the crew of a junk<br/>
which he met, not to go up the River<br/>
as the natives were up in arms, having<br/>
destroyed a foreign vessel with all her<br/>
crew, thus apparently confirming the<br/>
report brought by the French Fleet.<br/>
The General Sherman left Chefoo on<br/>
the 9th August. Capt. Preston, the<br/>
owner of the vessel, was on board at<br/>
the time, and should the melancholy<br/>
news prove true, it is to be deeply<br/>
regretted that his wife is en route for<br/>
Shanghae. There were also on board<br/>
two gentlemen from Chefoo, namely<br/>
Mr Thomas, a linguist, and Mr Ho-<br/>
garth, and it is feared they have all<br/>
met the fate of the crew, on board the<br/>
schooner. The murder of the crew<br/>
of the General Sherman, is said to<br/>
have been ordered by the King. This<br/>
fact, taken in connection with the<br/>
execution of those who held com-<br/>
munication with the Emperor on the<br/>
occasion of her recent visit, would go<br/>
far to point to the Government as the<br/>
author of the persecution of the mis-<br/>
sionaries, in which they were promp-<br/>
ted, probably, by the usual hatred of<br/>
foreign intrusion.-—Ov. C. Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Penang.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following are extracts from the<br/>
PENANG ARGUS, of October 26th:—<br/>
An awful tragedy was enacted on board<br/>
of the native brig FUTTER ISLAM of the<br/>
burden of 145 tons, when she was lying<br/>
off Trinket, one of the group of islands<br/>
which form the Nicobars. The FUTTEE<br/>
ISLAM left this for Rangoon in August<br/>
last, but was driven by stress of weath-<br/>
er to Acheen; where, after remaining for<br/>
a few days, she sailed for the Nicobars<br/>
and anchored off the island of Trinket<br/>
about a quarter of a mile from Pulo Nang-<br/>
kowri, a place notorious for the treach-<br/>
ery of its inhabitants, and the many ves-<br/>
sels that have from time to time been at-<br/>
tacked there. The teacherous natives ap-<br/>
peared friendly and brought cocoanuts<br/>
and poultry, which they bartered for<br/>
cloth, tobacco, knives and arrack. On<br/>
the fourth day, five boats came alongside<br/>
containing some thirty persons, and five<br/>
or six went on board and entered into a<br/>
friendly chat with the Nacodah, sitting<br/>
and smoking with him. After holding par-<br/>
ley for some time, one of them called out<br/>
to a man in one of the boats for fire, which<br/>
he brought up in a long thick bamboo.<br/>
After lighting his cigar, he hit the Na-<br/>
kodah on the head with the bamboo and<br/>
knocked him down. On this, the men,<br/>
who were quietly seated in the boats and<br/>
watching what was going on board of the<br/>
brig, rushed up with billets of firewood<br/>
and spears, clubbing and spearing the<br/>
crew who ran panic stricken in all direc-<br/>
tions. In the confusion, three men named<br/>
Sultan, store keeper, Shaik Doud, top-<br/>
man, and Pakier, cock, ran down the hold<br/>
and hid themselves behind wood and mats,<br/>
where they remained till the noise on deck<br/>
had subsided. When they emerged from<br/>
their place of concealment and went on<br/>
deck, it was getting dark and not a single<br/>
soul was on board nor a boat alongside.<br/>
There was much blood on deck, but the<br/>
bodies of the murdered men had been<br/>
thrown overboard by the murderers. The<br/>
survivers got the pin out of the shackle<br/>
of the chain, slipped it and put out to<br/>
sea, there being a little breeze at the time,<br/>
and arrived here on the 23rd instant,<br/>
eight days after the shocking tragedy was<br/>
enacted. The FUTTEH ISLAM had altogeth-<br/>
er 24 men on board including the Nacodah,<br/>
all of whom, excepting the three survivors,<br/>
were either killed or carried on shore by<br/>
the Nicabarians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the chief events of the week has<br/>
been the organization of another Mahome-<br/>
dan secret society, in the quiet fishing<br/>
village of Sunghy Penang, by four of<br/>
the influential headmen living there.<br/>
About one hundred aud twenty of the<br/>
villagers have joined this Association;<br/>
some from compulsion, and others from<br/>
promise of assistance in time of difficulty.<br/>
As might be axpected the society has a<br/>
number of idlers and blustering ragamuf-<br/>
fins. who are engaged in enlisting mem-<br/>
bers threatening those who resist them<br/>
and preventing others from associating<br/>
and transacting business with persons who<br/>
refuse to join the fraternity. No rows have<br/>
yet occurred, but the quiet of the peac-<br/>
able portion of the people has been much<br/>
disturbed by the threstening attitude of<br/>
the society men. There are several com-<br/>
plaints by persons of being seriously<br/>
threatened and their servants forced to<br/>
strike work. A law to suppress these<br/>
dangerous secret societies is much wanted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rebellion in the Burmese Empire<br/>
has determined, and two the of Rebel<br/>
Princes have taken refuge at Rangoon<br/>
where they arrived on the 9th October in<br/>
the Burmese Steamer " Yan-kan-taykin,"<br/>
with about two hundred followers. The<br/>
GAZETTE says:—-" We are told that a<br/>
house is to be engaged at Cantonment for<br/>
these Princes, where they will be kept<br/>
guarded by a strong body of Police, as<br/>
it is more than probable that numerous<br/>
emissaries of the late War Prince would<br/>
soon make short work of them, if they<br/>
were left unprotected. What is to be done<br/>
with them eventually, we cannot at pre-<br/>
sent say."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Legislature of South Carolina his<br/>
adopted important measures concerning<br/>
the coloured population of that State.<br/>
Freedmen are secured the right to make<br/>
and enforce contracts, to sue, give legal<br/>
evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, hold,<br/>
or sell property; to enjoy full and equal<br/>
benefits of personal security, personal<br/>
liberty, and all legal remedies, the same<br/>
as whites. All punishments for crime are<br/>
to be inflicted regardless of colour. The<br/>
law declaring marriages between whites<br/>
and blacks illegal, however, remains<br/>
unrepealed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Twenty thousand ounces of gold (valu-<br/>
ed at 400,000 dollars) were deposited<br/>
lately on a single day in the branch mint<br/>
at San Francisco, being the largest amount<br/>
ever received in one day..
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Bigelow's retirement from the<br/>
Embassy at Paris is said to be his own<br/>
act.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Radical party has carried the elec-<br/>
tions in Pennsylvania, which augurs badly<br/>
for President Johnson, if there be any<br/>
truth in an axiom of American elec-<br/>
tioneers, that "as Pennsylvania goes,<br/>
so goes the Union."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Sumner has delivered an address<br/>
at Boston on "The One Man in Power<br/>
versus Congress." In his discourse he<br/>
animadverted at length upon President<br/>
Johnson's conduct of the Government,<br/>
accusing him of having assumed the<br/>
legislative functions, and declared that<br/>
the present State Governments in the<br/>
South were not of Republican form. The<br/>
Congressional and Constitutional amend-<br/>
ment must, he said, be adopted, and the<br/>
universal suffrage demanded and secured<br/>
by the North could not be left to be<br/>
granted to the negroes by the Southern<br/>
States themselves. He also declared that<br/>
all negroes who hold to their allegiance<br/>
were entitled to citizenship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Judge Underwood is reported to have<br/>
stated that Mr. Davis will be tried in<br/>
November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Assistant Secretary Seward has been<br/>
appointed Secretary of State ad interim,<br/>
owing to his father's illness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. John von Buren is dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government has entered a NOLLE<br/>
PROSEQUI in the case of the Fenian presi-<br/>
dent Roberts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The public debt of the United States<br/>
amounted on Oct. 1st to 2,700,000,000<br/>
dols., and the amount in the Treasury on<br/>
the same date was 128,000,000 dols.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer Evening Star, for New<br/>
Orleans, has floundered at sea: 300 lives<br/>
were lost.—LON. ILL. NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Scientific Traveler.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For several years an eminent German<br/>
Naturalist, by the name of Dr. Bastian<br/>
has been traveling in the East, after hav-<br/>
ing traveled in the West. He spent some<br/>
years on the West Coast of Africa in the<br/>
territories of Ashantee and Dahomey and<br/>
other tribes. Dr. Bastian is an enthusiastic<br/>
naturalist and traveler. An account of<br/>
his travels was published some years ago<br/>
in Germany. In 1861 he reached Rangoon<br/>
after having made a journey through the<br/>
North west provinces. From this place he<br/>
left for the Burmese capital where he re-<br/>
mained sometime in the palace by invita-<br/>
tion of the King. From Mandalay it was<br/>
his intention to proceed into Western Chi-<br/>
na and by that route to work his way a-<br/>
long to Pekin. In this hope, however he<br/>
was disappointed. The Panthees [?] residing<br/>
near the Chinese frontier would not allow<br/>
him to pass. Hence he had to return. From<br/>
the capital, he then crossed the country<br/>
and traveled down to Maulmain. From<br/>
that town, he proceeded to Siam, whence<br/>
he passed up the Cambodia river to inspect<br/>
the ruins of the old city of Cambodia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the request of the King of Siam we<br/>
believe he furnished a sketch of his travels<br/>
to the ruins of Cambodia, and this paper<br/>
has lately been published in the columns<br/>
of the "Bangkok Recorder." Many papers<br/>
which he contributed to different Scienti-<br/>
fic Societies both in England and Germany<br/>
have been published in the journals. Dr.<br/>
Bastian is now traveling in the Southern<br/>
part of China, and after visiting Pekin will<br/>
probably, push up the Amour river, and<br/>
thence through Asiatic Russia back over-<br/>
land to Germany. He is a man of iron<br/>
constitution, of indomitable perseverance<br/>
and of extreme simplicity of habits. He<br/>
adapts himself to the tastes of every race<br/>
through whose territory he passes. He car-<br/>
ries no supplies along with him, but de-<br/>
pends for food on the natives of the coun-<br/>
try where he is traveling. He is certainly<br/>
a very extraordinary man. He has been<br/>
through America, through Africa and is<br/>
slowly pushing along through Asia. When<br/>
his travels are over, he will settle down<br/>
probably at Leipsic and write a succession<br/>
of works giving his observations and<br/>
experience for the benefit of mankind.—<br/>
RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
NEW JERSEY has ratified the Constitu-<br/>
tional Amendment and elected an anti-<br/>
Johnson U. S. Senater—-Hon. A. G. Cattell<br/>
Alias for Camden and Amboy.' Its charm<br/>
is broken.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARIS advices assure us that the "stove<br/>
pipe," alias "chimney pot," alias "plug<br/>
hat, is going out of fashion. We fear the<br/>
news is too good to be true. The old a-<br/>
bomination, mother of headaches, and<br/>
defier of good taste, will not be easily<br/>
dethroned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE TOUR of the Southern Loyalists call'<br/>
out large meetings and is doing a healthy<br/>
work. Their ringing utterances in favor<br/>
of equal suffrage and a plea for security<br/>
for southern loyalists—-white and black—-<br/>
are touching the pulse of the people. There<br/>
is every reason to hope that the next, Con-<br/>
gress will have a heavier radical majority<br/>
than the last.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WHILE A young minister was recently<br/>
preaching a written discourse in Andover,<br/>
the wind, entering through an open win-<br/>
dow, whisked the sermon off the desk and<br/>
most of it out of an opposite window,<br/>
scattering it through a field of grain. No<br/>
one going to his aid, the young reverend<br/>
was obliged to leave the desk and the<br/>
church and hunt up his flying sermon,<br/>
which, with its re-arrangement, took about<br/>
a quarter of an hour. This new way of<br/>
spreading the gospel was anything but a<br/>
serious matter to the congregation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE TIMES' circulation is said to suffer<br/>
severely by the late defection of Mr. Ray-<br/>
mond. The New York TRIBUNE, on the<br/>
other hand, was never before so popular<br/>
as now. It has gained ten thousand on its<br/>
daily, and thirty thousand on its weekly<br/>
since the first of August.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
December 13th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A government Notification.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our attention was this day called<br/>
by a friend to a government notifica-<br/>
tion posted on small boards and hung<br/>
up in many places on the new street<br/>
Charon Kroong. The purport of it<br/>
is,—that the king is displeased to find<br/>
so few of the building lots on that<br/>
new street occupied by good and res-<br/>
pectable buildings, and that after sev-<br/>
eral years of waiting upon their own-<br/>
ers he sees that the great majority of the<br/>
lots remain an entire waste. He says<br/>
that he has been at great expense in<br/>
making the street for the purpose of<br/>
having it open many eligible building<br/>
sites that should be so occupied as to<br/>
improve and beautify the city, and<br/>
that seeing the owners of the waste<br/>
lots are not likely to do it themselves,<br/>
he has determined upon adopting the<br/>
following plan to accomplish his ori-<br/>
ginal purpose, viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The owners of the unoccupied lots<br/>
shall have but a little more than one<br/>
year more of grace for improving<br/>
them. If at the beginning of the year<br/>
Marong (about March 1868) the lots<br/>
remain unoccupied by some suitable<br/>
buildings, their owners shall be oblig-<br/>
ed to sell them to the king at only the<br/>
established government prices, and<br/>
that the government will then proceed<br/>
to erect buildings upon them to rent<br/>
to the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This appears to us a very interes-<br/>
ting government document. It would<br/>
seem to have been placarded twelve<br/>
or fifteen days since, with the seal of<br/>
H. E. Chow Phya Kaiahome the Prime<br/>
Minister affixed to it. It is written<br/>
simply with a black pencil on coarse<br/>
Siamese paper. We wonder at H. E.<br/>
having so important a business tran-<br/>
saction executed so shabbily, and that<br/>
no notice of it has been furnished by<br/>
government for either the English or<br/>
Siamese paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first blush of the document<br/>
might strike one as being rather op-<br/>
pressive upon the owners of those va-<br/>
cant building lots; but on a little<br/>
thought it looses that appearance. The<br/>
ground for the street was originally<br/>
purchased by the government at pri-<br/>
ces which no owner had any good rea-<br/>
son to complain of, even though they<br/>
might appear to him rather cheap, be-<br/>
cause the street when made would<br/>
enhance much the value of all the<br/>
land on its borders. The king's ob-<br/>
ject was really to benefit the land-<br/>
lords on the street, while at the same<br/>
time he intended to improve the city<br/>
by a large increase of good houses<br/>
neatly arranged on either side of the<br/>
street.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But now the king discovers that the<br/>
owners of the lots have raised their<br/>
ideas so high as to their value, that<br/>
they refuse to sell them at such pri-<br/>
ces as will justify persons of but little<br/>
money in purchasing them. Thus is<br/>
his benevolent object being defeated,<br/>
and hence he now determines to arrest<br/>
the further progress of this defeat, and<br/>
take a course that will accomplish his<br/>
original design. He has made an out-<br/>
lay of but little less than a thousand<br/>
catties of silver for the object, and<br/>
paid the original owners of the land<br/>
which the street occupies all that it<br/>
was then worth. And moreover, by<br/>
making the street he has more than<br/>
quadrupled the value of the building<br/>
lots which remain in their possession,<br/>
which if they would sell at even this<br/>
enhanced value, could and would be<br/>
purchased quickly by the poorer clas-<br/>
ses and suitably occupied. But no—<br/>
These landlords must have much<br/>
greater prices paid for their lots, such<br/>
as none but monied men can pay.<br/>
Hence we think that it is quite right<br/>
that the king should resolve upon the<br/>
course he has We are glad to see<br/>
that he has taken up the matter in<br/>
good earnest, and will in all probabi-<br/>
lity accomplish it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Lotus Gardens.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that the pic-nic<br/>
given by the Prussian Consul and<br/>
lady on the 11th inst. was highly<br/>
gratifying to the guests, especially to<br/>
the ladies and juvenals, to whom the<br/>
monotony of Bangkok affords but rare<br/>
opportunities for such agreeable re-<br/>
creations. The morning was fine, the<br/>
air bracing, and a favorable tide all<br/>
conspiring, made the ride to His<br/>
Majesty's palace in the Lotus garden<br/>
exhilirating. The Lotus garden is<br/>
becoming quite a fashionable place of<br/>
resort, conducing much to the health<br/>
and pleasure of our community. It<br/>
is accessible from the river by four<br/>
large canals, all verging into the<br/>
large canal which connects the Chow<br/>
Phya river with the Bangpakong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To those residing in the lower part of<br/>
the city the most direct route is<br/>
through the Klawng Koot-mai, a fine<br/>
large canal dug during the present<br/>
reign, forming a large semi-circle<br/>
around the city. It furnishes beau-<br/>
tiful locations for dwellings and is<br/>
now one of the great throughfares of<br/>
the city. It is generally crowded<br/>
with boats, often rendering the passage<br/>
to and fro very difficult. The same<br/>
is true of all the canals in and about<br/>
Bangkok, giving some idea of the im-<br/>
mense trade between the provinces<br/>
and the metropolis. Nor are there<br/>
wanting numerous specimens of an-<br/>
cient Siamese war boats lying in<br/>
docks almost lining some portions of<br/>
the way, now superseded by the<br/>
modern improvements of war steamers,<br/>
with which they stand in striking<br/>
contrast, and giving us some idea of<br/>
the great advance of the present over<br/>
former reigns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to those there are in the<br/>
upper canals, before mentioned, palaces<br/>
of princes, and residences of noblemen,<br/>
and a number of large and extensive<br/>
temples throughout the whole extent<br/>
to the Lotus gardens. Wat Saket,<br/>
popularly called the tower of Babel,<br/>
situated on one of these canals com-<br/>
mands one of the finest views of the<br/>
city. It is an immense pile of brick<br/>
designed as a tower, in connection<br/>
with a temple, but was left unfinished<br/>
because it was too heavy to be sup-<br/>
ported entire upon its foundation.<br/>
It has recently been so repaired as to<br/>
be easy and safe of ascent to any<br/>
who may have the curiosity to visit it,<br/>
and will well repay the effort by giv-<br/>
ing a bird's-eye view of the city.<br/>
This whole portion of the city has a<br/>
crowded population embracing, the<br/>
numerous nationalities all seeking a<br/>
livelihood in their various callings.<br/>
In the immediate vicinity of the gar-<br/>
dens, as you approach the palace, the<br/>
rice fields begin to show in the dis-<br/>
tance. The location of the Lotus<br/>
garden on this canal was wisely<br/>
chosen. The grounds are large and<br/>
in pretty good order, the walks are<br/>
good, and the whole place admirably<br/>
adapted for a pic-nic excursion, as<br/>
well as for its original design, as a<br/>
place of recreation for His Majesty,<br/>
in which he may spend a day or more<br/>
away from the cares and business of<br/>
the palace. The lot fronts on the<br/>
canal. Behind the building is an<br/>
artificial pond in which the Lotus<br/>
plants are grown, which constitutes<br/>
the garden proper. They are not in<br/>
blossom at this season of the year, and<br/>
boats pass over their beds with but<br/>
little sign of their existence. In the<br/>
midst of the pond is an artificial is-<br/>
land on which there is a new temple<br/>
in process of building, which when<br/>
finished may rank, in workmanship,<br/>
among the first class of temples in the<br/>
kingdom. There is a small canal lead-<br/>
ing from the main one by which the<br/>
garden and the temple is reached. The<br/>
paintings on the walls within are said<br/>
to be of rather a fine order, reflecting<br/>
credit on the artists by whom they<br/>
were executed. Any one who has<br/>
been at Wat Po will remember how<br/>
finely the temple walls are covered<br/>
with paintings, representing real and<br/>
imaginary beings and scenes. The<br/>
gardens, the island, and the temple<br/>
are all in full view of the palace build-<br/>
ings, with a broad, cheering view<br/>
over the rice fields, and the whole<br/>
together forms another one of the<br/>
many pleasant spots around Bangkok,<br/>
an occasional visit to which would<br/>
contribute to the health and cheerful-<br/>
ness of the citizens.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shan Land-Sketches
HISTORY, LITERATURE RELIGION &c.
CHAPTER 11.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two o'clock in the morning, at the<br/>
full moon of February, we came to<br/>
anchor outside the bar, at the entrance<br/>
of the river, leading to the capital of<br/>
Shanland. The captain immediately<br/>
manned the cutter, and we set out for<br/>
the city, as it was smooth water in<br/>
the Gulf, early in the morning. If<br/>
we had waited for daylight, before we<br/>
could reach the river, the great waves<br/>
might make our little boat uncomfort-<br/>
able.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We reached the river just at break<br/>
of day, and a more gladsome scene I<br/>
never witnessed. The full moon set<br/>
upon the western horizon. The Sun<br/>
had just stepped forth from his bed<br/>
chamber, and Venus just above never<br/>
looked brighter. It seemed gala<br/>
day with the glad bowers. Cock-a-<br/>
doodle-doo sang in most joyous rounds,<br/>
the lords of the heneries along the<br/>
coast. All the feathered tribes were<br/>
awake and full of song. The myriads<br/>
of insects of every variety of tone and<br/>
character chimed in their little melody,<br/>
and even the fishes, seemed tuneful as<br/>
well, for some little shoals of them,<br/>
were giving us a merry tune, as they<br/>
seemed to cling to our boat and move<br/>
with us, as on the perfectly glassy<br/>
surface of the water we glided quietly<br/>
along. And the foliage too, how<br/>
luxurious! up and down and around, as<br/>
far as the eye could reach, not a tall<br/>
towering growth, but a thick young<br/>
growth of wood land, each tree seem-<br/>
ing to press on its neighbor, and per-<br/>
fectly loaded down with leaves—a rich<br/>
deep green without variety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How full of life, was my spontane-<br/>
ous exclamation, as we came into the<br/>
river. I do not know that I can ex-<br/>
press more of Shaunland, in a few<br/>
words, than I did then. It is full of<br/>
life. The soil and the waters seem<br/>
so delight to bring forth, and indepen-<br/>
dent of man, is a land abounding in<br/>
varied gifts. The soil enriches itself,<br/>
with the flood tides with come every<br/>
year with the closing rains, and then<br/>
sends forth, in the forests even, palatable<br/>
fruits and vegetables. The wild deer<br/>
courses free in the woodlands, and<br/>
varied birds fine for food, and many<br/>
of them sweet-singers, are every-where<br/>
on the wing, seeking their food from<br/>
God. You can hardly turn up a spade<br/>
of mother earth without disturbing<br/>
myriads of her children. And fish,<br/>
sea fish, shell fish, have all seasons for<br/>
their own, and afford an inexhaustable<br/>
store for those who love what is<br/>
healthy and simple.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The longer I live in Shaunland, the<br/>
more I am impressed with its suscep-<br/>
tabilities for a great population. It is<br/>
a constant producer, and unlike most<br/>
countries, and most created things,<br/>
asks no day of rest or year of jubilee.<br/>
All seasons are adorned with fruits<br/>
and flowers and delicate buds and some-<br/>
times the same tree has them all at<br/>
once, and the great variety cannot but<br/>
afford some for every taste.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No languor winter even comes here<br/>
enveloping the earth in a shroud, and<br/>
saying as plain as looks can speak—-<br/>
death-—death—-death, bears univer-<br/>
sal sway. No nipping frosts ever<br/>
steals stealthily, in autumn nights,<br/>
and blast the hopes of long labors and<br/>
careful watch care. Life seems to be<br/>
the watchword of prolific nature.<br/>
Live and revel in natures bounties,<br/>
heedless of future wants You need no<br/>
bee-like industry, to hoard for gloomy<br/>
winter; each season has enough.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And here the philosopher would<br/>
naturally stop to trace the effects of<br/>
so luxurious and lenient a climate.<br/>
The hardy Scotchman on rugged hills,<br/>
first battles with dame nature, fighting<br/>
hard to keep a foothold on his mother<br/>
earth, and wrenching from her by<br/>
dint of greatest energy and care and<br/>
forethought, enough to well supply<br/>
his passing wants. Up with the sun<br/>
he toils with thoughts all wide awake<br/>
to gain his bread, and as he seeks his<br/>
bread he gets his education too. For<br/>
education is but well to learn to think,<br/>
and plan, and meet the tasks of life. It<br/>
matters little how the work is done<br/>
or where, 'tis well done. And so<br/>
the Scotch are brave and enterprising<br/>
and if a little "near" 'tis wonderful<br/>
they hold so loosely what has given<br/>
anxious care to get.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The men of Yankeeland are taught<br/>
in a harder school, than those that<br/>
train young men for war and seamen's<br/>
life or patriotic toil. The soil has<br/>
been the best of teachers. Sit down<br/>
and smoke your pipe and play at<br/>
cards or dare frequent a public house<br/>
and drink the fiery beverage which<br/>
turns the brain awry, and want and<br/>
beggary, even death is sure to press<br/>
upon your path at once. No! no!<br/>
says rocky, hilly Yankee land, if you<br/>
would live a busy, earnest, eager life,<br/>
all full of plans, and turns, and projects<br/>
rare, must be your part. And so in<br/>
Yankeeland they never miss a means<br/>
to gain an honest end. And so her<br/>
sons where'er the hand of Providence<br/>
may lead the way, will find a means<br/>
to thrive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What then—-Is a luxurious land a<br/>
curse? I said not that. But man is<br/>
moved by circumstances, and if his<br/>
wants give him no blows to urge him<br/>
on, he loves to lag behind and rest<br/>
in cooling shade and sleep away his<br/>
hours, or seek some haunt of mirth,<br/>
and away his listless, dreamless time in<br/>
play, or lulled in lap of luxury and<br/>
self indulgence, thinks of naught but<br/>
what will gratify wild passions unres-<br/>
trained by fear of God or man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wants we must have, to make us<br/>
think, and plan, and act. Wants for<br/>
ourselves, our fellow men, our country,<br/>
or a stimulus to glorify the Being we<br/>
were made to serve. The great chief<br/>
want is lust. We need a God to serve<br/>
whose days are filled with making<br/>
worlds and peopling them with living<br/>
men and things. Who makes it his<br/>
great end, to train those godlike made<br/>
for bliss in heaven. With a God like<br/>
this to serve, and imitate, and purpose<br/>
full awake to serve the human race,<br/>
the swift winged thought of man<br/>
would always soar and seek some<br/>
wished for good, to glorify the God<br/>
o'er all, or benefit some brother man<br/>
in need that has a life less easy than<br/>
his own.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Royal Highness Somdeteh<br/>
Chowfa Chulalongkorn left the city this<br/>
morning, as we are informed, for a<br/>
trip to P'KA PATOM CRADEE. His<br/>
Majesty the king returned from thence<br/>
on the 8th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home the Prime Minister is making<br/>
preparations for celebrating the 59th<br/>
anniversary of his birth on the 22nd<br/>
23rd and 24th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have just received a paper from<br/>
the king's chief scribe touching our<br/>
review of the royal criticisms in our<br/>
last issue, and are happy to report that<br/>
it is written in a good spirit, and nar-<br/>
rows rather than widens the difference<br/>
of views between us. Its author is of<br/>
the opinion that the colloquial of the<br/>
laity and that of the Buddhist clergy<br/>
should not be at all mixed together in<br/>
our publications. Our own view is,<br/>
that the mixture has so long been<br/>
made in the standard works of the<br/>
country, that it would be difficult to<br/>
effect a very great change at this late<br/>
day, and that the change would not<br/>
be of any great utility if made. But<br/>
we do think some Siamese writers are<br/>
quite too free in the use of the pecu-<br/>
liar language of the priests, and it may<br/>
be that our own writers have erred in<br/>
this regard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have occasion to be thankful<br/>
for many valuable criticisms which His<br/>
Majesty has from time to time made<br/>
on our Siamese writings and the wri-<br/>
tings of the missionaries generally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BIRTH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At her temporary residence in this<br/>
city, on the 1st inst. Mrs. McFarland<br/>
wife of Rev. S. G. McFarland of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission in Petchaburee,<br/>
gave birth to a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Karens who ap-<br/>
plied to the British Consul in this city<br/>
a few weeks since for redress for the<br/>
stealing of an elephant by a Siamese<br/>
party on the borders of Burmah and<br/>
Siam, have obtained all the papers<br/>
they need from the Siamese authori-<br/>
ties here to accomplish their object,<br/>
and are about leaving.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rice Mill of Messrs. R. S.<br/>
Scott & Co., at Khawk-khwai, was sold<br/>
on Monday the 10th inst. to P'hya<br/>
Buroot for the sum of sixty thousands<br/>
ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 9th number of the Bangkok<br/>
Calendar will be issued about the<br/>
first of January next. It will not<br/>
contain the usual amount of suppli-<br/>
mentary matter of the preceding No's.<br/>
since much of that kind of reading has<br/>
already been furnished this year in the<br/>
columns of the Bangkok Recorder,<br/>
thus superceding the desirability of<br/>
the like in the Calendar, and be-<br/>
cause it increases the cost of the<br/>
work quite too much for the small<br/>
pay that it brings the proprietor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All who wish to have their business<br/>
relations or simply their names publish-<br/>
ed in the Calendar will please take<br/>
the necessary steps to have them cor-<br/>
rectly inserted. A printed sheet of the<br/>
usual business relations and names<br/>
will be sent about town early next<br/>
week to receive the corrections that<br/>
will need to be made for the year 1867.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
IRON BRIDGES.-—Two Iron Bridges<br/>
have already been set up in this city,<br/>
and we are glad to observe that two<br/>
others are going up. One of them is<br/>
to cross the new canal near the lower<br/>
Fort on the left bank of the Menam,<br/>
and the other to cross the old canal<br/>
near the city walls at the northern end<br/>
of the great Bazar. They are both<br/>
to be draw-bridges some 70 to 80 feet<br/>
in length by 12 or 15 in breadth. We<br/>
scarcely need say that the one near the<br/>
city wall will be a great improvement<br/>
upon the old bridge of but two nar-<br/>
row planks which none but men, goats<br/>
and dogs could walk, and which we<br/>
have seen full thirty one years with<br/>
an unbroken and perpetual line of hu-<br/>
man beings passing both ways upon it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We beg leave to suggest to govern-<br/>
ment that if they would have their<br/>
bridges endure long the corroding in-<br/>
fluences of this clime, they should<br/>
keep them well painted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
STARTLING.—-It is rumored that M.<br/>
Aubaret, the French consul, has be-<br/>
come displeased at the refusal of the<br/>
Siamese government to modify the<br/>
4th Article of the Treaty of April<br/>
1856 relating to Cambodia, and has<br/>
demanded the removal of H. E. the<br/>
Prime Minister. If true, this is cer-<br/>
tainly a most extraordinary proceed-<br/>
ing for a consul. Would any minister<br/>
plenipotentiary in Europe dare to make<br/>
such a demand of any European gov-<br/>
ernment ? With all their high rank<br/>
and position we believe they would<br/>
not dare to venture to take such a<br/>
step, and if they did, their passports<br/>
would be handed over to them im-<br/>
mediately. We trust the Siamese<br/>
government will not yield to any such<br/>
demand, and, if the report is true, will<br/>
stand firm to their true dignity and<br/>
duty. We do not believe any gov-<br/>
ernment in Europe or America would<br/>
tolerate such proceedings in a consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Com.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M. S. “Pearl” is a Steam Screw<br/>
Corvette of 17 large guns. Her ton-<br/>
nage is 1750, with steam power of<br/>
400 horse, including officers and<br/>
crew, there are nearly 300 persons on<br/>
board. She arrived at the Bar on<br/>
Monday last, and a Siamese Steamer<br/>
brought up the captain and some of<br/>
the officers on Wednesday. She will<br/>
probably leave the Bar for Singapore<br/>
Monday night (the 17th inst). She<br/>
was seven days coming up from Sing-<br/>
apore with the mail. We shall pro-<br/>
bably see His Majesty to day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Com.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE GUNBOAT IMPREGNABLE.-—We<br/>
learn that the commander of H. B.<br/>
M’s War Steamer, the “PEARL,” has<br/>
been on board H. S. M’s Gunboat<br/>
Impregnable, and examined her con-<br/>
dition, and inspected the drill of the<br/>
native marines. He speaks in much<br/>
praise of all he saw, and appeared to<br/>
be quite surprised at the cleanliness,<br/>
discipline, and good order manifested<br/>
to also of the smartness of the men<br/>
working their guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FIRE.—-An attempt appears to have<br/>
been made on the 10th inst. to burn<br/>
down the Chinese-land rice mills on the<br/>
Canal a little in the rear of the Harbor<br/>
Master’s residence. In the dead of<br/>
that night a Peon connected with the<br/>
Police force, standing on the bridge a<br/>
little way from the mills, saw a small<br/>
blaze of fire on the attap roof of one of<br/>
the mills, and instantly raised an alarm,<br/>
which called out a sufficient number<br/>
of persons to extinguish it in time to<br/>
save all damage. In doing so they found<br/>
that a lot of lucifer matches, had been<br/>
rolled up in many folds of Chinese<br/>
wrapping paper, and the paper ignit-<br/>
ed and thrown up on the roof, doubt-<br/>
less by some incendiary, expecting<br/>
the paper would burn slowly until he<br/>
could have time to escape notice and<br/>
then ignite the matches. He did in-<br/>
deed escape, but the matches had not<br/>
been reached by the burning paper be-<br/>
fore the plot was arrested. Had the<br/>
police man been a few minutes later,<br/>
the two or three rice mills, the most<br/>
combustible things possible, would have<br/>
been wrapped in flames, and the whole<br/>
neighborhood would doubtless have<br/>
been involved in the catastrophe. This<br/>
is another proof among very many of<br/>
the utility of a Police force. There<br/>
have been several such narrow escapes<br/>
from conflagration by the intervention<br/>
of police men, who were on the<br/>
watch.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Fires—It is reported that there was<br/>
a fire of considerable extent on the<br/>
same night of the 10th inst on the<br/>
Chaoron Kroong in the rear of the house<br/>
of the Borneo Company "Limited."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the readers of the
BANGKOK RECORDS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am commissioned by the ladies of<br/>
the Bangkok Bazar Association, and<br/>
instructed specially with many pleas-<br/>
ant Christmas greetings, to inform<br/>
you, that they intend, d. v. to hold<br/>
a Bazar on the 24th instant, at the<br/>
Protestant church, kindly placed at<br/>
their disposal, by our much esteemed<br/>
B. Consul T. G. Knox Esq. for the<br/>
purpose of disposing of a few fancy<br/>
articles, worked conjointly by the la-<br/>
dies here, for the aid and benefit of<br/>
the new Mission about to be opened<br/>
at Cheangmai. The hours will be<br/>
from 2 to 6 p. m.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With a view the more fully to in-<br/>
terest my readers in the proposed baz-<br/>
ar, I cannot, I think, do better than<br/>
to give a slight sketch of the spirit<br/>
and motives which induced the Ladies<br/>
to meet together for an object, from<br/>
notes made by one of themselves at a<br/>
meeting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The Ladies of the Bangkok Bazar<br/>
Association have decided upon devot-<br/>
ing the 1st and 4th Thursday in every<br/>
month, to working together conjointly,<br/>
each paying in a small gratuity at the<br/>
same time, that they may thus be en-<br/>
abled to have in reserve a small Fund,<br/>
to be appropriated to any worthy or<br/>
charitable end that may be deemed fit.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But as the Cheangmai mission is to<br/>
take from us two of our beloved sis-<br/>
ters in Christ, one of whom will, with<br/>
her husband and little ones, leave al-<br/>
most immediately after Christmas, the<br/>
other following with her husband at the<br/>
beginning of the next dry season, both<br/>
wholly resigning the comforts and pleas-<br/>
ures of social intercourse which Bang-<br/>
kok affords, thus subjecting themselves<br/>
and children to a very trying position, on-<br/>
ly that they may help, comfort, and en-<br/>
courage with their presence their hus-<br/>
bands while engaged in the higher work<br/>
of teaching the far off Louians the<br/>
blessed truths of the Gospel, their<br/>
tired efforts shall be, half hopeful, half<br/>
regretful, with many natural fears and<br/>
so many misgivings, but all together, as<br/>
with one hand and one heart, lovingly<br/>
devoted, to expressing our warm and<br/>
united sympathy with the dear brave<br/>
ones now about to bid us a long adieu.<br/>
This therefore must be the object of<br/>
our first Bazar, the products of which<br/>
we intend as a material Souvenir to the<br/>
Cheangmai Mission Fund.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
—ACTING SECRETARY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Islands No. 8.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HONOLULU is the capital of the<br/>
Hawaiian nation, and is situated on<br/>
the South western side of OAHU. The<br/>
harbor has the reputation of being<br/>
one of the best in the Pacific Ocean,<br/>
and is formed by a coral reef. The city<br/>
contains a population of about 12,000<br/>
souls, and has assumed quite the ap-<br/>
pearance of a European city in the<br/>
style of its houses, streets sidewalks, etc.<br/>
The palace of the king is in the city,<br/>
surrounded by a stone wall. The<br/>
building is a story and a half, but it<br/>
would seem not very imposing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are two native Protestant<br/>
churches and one Roman Catholic.<br/>
Besides these, there are also the Fort<br/>
street church, a seaman's chapel, and<br/>
an Episcopalian or “Reformed Cath-<br/>
olic church. Outside of the city,<br/>
within the Honolulu district, there are<br/>
a dozen or more houses for Protestant<br/>
worship and built by the natives, at a<br/>
cost, on an average, of six hundred dol-<br/>
lars each. Three of them are of stone<br/>
and the others generally of wood. The<br/>
first church in Honolulu is built of<br/>
coral blocks, with extensive galleries,<br/>
seats a large congregation, and has a<br/>
town clock in its tower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The members of the second church,<br/>
numbering 2516, made out a regular<br/>
call to Rev. Mr. Parker at the time of<br/>
Dr. Anderson’s visit in 1863, promis-<br/>
ing him a salary of a thousand dol-<br/>
lars to be raised by themselves. His<br/>
ordination took place at that time, and<br/>
the services, as described by Dr. A.<br/>
must have been most interesting.<br/>
“The vast audience, its becoming<br/>
appearance, the interest, the attention,<br/>
the singing, every thing indicated an<br/>
established christianity.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two miles from the city is Oahu<br/>
COLLEGE, a charming situation com-<br/>
manding a grand view of the sea. "It<br/>
is a beautiful place, and the college<br/>
seems to be a gem of the Islands. Here<br/>
the children of the missionaries, male<br/>
and female, and other foreign youths,<br/>
and natives, speaking the English<br/>
language, and paying their expenses<br/>
may receive almost as effective an<br/>
education as was given by American<br/>
colleges in my early years." The school<br/>
was commenced in 1841 and the char-<br/>
ter obtained in 1853. The number of<br/>
pupils in 1863 was seventy nine.<br/>
    Dr. A. was present at the annual<br/>
examination in 1863, and says of it.<br/>
"The hall was filled with students,<br/>
teachers, and an intelligent audience.<br/>
The examination was admirably con-<br/>
ducted, and completely successful.<br/>
The President (Mills) examined in<br/>
geometry, meteorology, algebra, elem-<br/>
ents of criticism, and intellectual phil-<br/>
osophy; Prof. Alexander, in the Latin<br/>
Reader, Sophocles, Virgil, and ana-<br/>
lytical geometry; Mrs. Mills, in Chem-<br/>
istry, geology, botany, natural the-<br/>
ology, and English grammar; Miss<br/>
Coan, in history and rhetoric, while<br/>
the paintings and drawings executed<br/>
by her pupils were seen upon the<br/>
walls; and Mr. Bailey, in arithmetic<br/>
and geography, including the exhibi-<br/>
tion of neatly executed maps. The<br/>
commencement performances were on<br/>
Thursday evening, June 18th (1863)<br/>
in the great Stone Church of Honolu-<br/>
lu. The speakers acquitted themselves<br/>
well, and the singing by the pupils,<br/>
under a German professor, was of a<br/>
high order. Altogether the institution<br/>
appeared to be in a prosperous con-<br/>
dition, and I cannot help regarding it<br/>
as one of the most important elements<br/>
of safety and prosperity for the<br/>
Hawaiian nation."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a chapter towards the latter part<br/>
of his book Dr. A. writes more par-<br/>
ticularly on Schools and Literature<br/>
from which the following extracts are<br/>
made.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The Hawaiian language was so<br/>
far reduced to writing by the mis-<br/>
sionaries in 1822, that they com-<br/>
menced printing in January of that<br/>
year. Every syllable of the language<br/>
ends with a vowel; and all the sounds<br/>
of the language are expressed by five<br/>
vowels and seven consonants. To<br/>
give a proper expression to the names<br/>
of persons, places, and things in oth-<br/>
er countries, with which the Hawai-<br/>
ians need to become acquainted,<br/>
especially to Scripture names, nine<br/>
consonants have been added—b, d, f,<br/>
g, r, s, t, v, and z. The twelve let-<br/>
ters of the proper Hawaiian alphabet<br/>
are a, e, i, o, u, h, k, l, m, n, p, w.<br/>
It was this simple alphabet that so<br/>
soon made the ability to read almost<br/>
universal."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"There have been published in the<br/>
native language besides the Old and<br/>
New Testaments, more than two hun-<br/>
dred different works, and more than<br/>
two hundred million pages."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The classes of books, published<br/>
have been 1st Religions 21 kinds; 2nd<br/>
School books 38 kinds; 3d General<br/>
Science 7 kinds, generally large works<br/>
embracing Political economy, Com-<br/>
pend of general history, ancient His-<br/>
tory &c.; 4th Government, 4 kinds, as<br/>
statute laws, civil code, penal code<br/>
&c. and 5th Newspapers, 10.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The question will arise, How far<br/>
the Hawaiian people are able and<br/>
disposed to be profited by a litera-<br/>
ture in their native language. This<br/>
will be best answered by an extract<br/>
from a well considered article, which<br/>
was read by Judge Andrews before<br/>
the Hawaiian Evangelical Association<br/>
in June, 1863. His competence to<br/>
testify on the subject is seen in the<br/>
fact, that he is the author of the<br/>
Hawaiian Grammar mentioned above,<br/>
and also of a Dictionary of the Hawai-<br/>
ian Language, containing ten or<br/>
twelve thousand words . . . and<br/>
was the first principal of what is now<br/>
the Lahainaluna College."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It will be remembered that at that<br/>
time (1828) and for several years after-<br/>
wards, no children were in the schools.<br/>
The schools were composed of adults,<br/>
chiefs and people, men and women.<br/>
Many who had passed the middle age<br/>
of life were proud to stand up in clas-<br/>
ses and read their palapalas. The<br/>
masses read, and continued to learn<br/>
to read, as fast as the missionaries<br/>
could get out books for them. The<br/>
first book was a Spelling-book; then<br/>
followed Thoughts of the chiefs. The<br/>
chiefs had not only learned to read,<br/>
but to write out their own thoughts.<br/>
The Sermon on the mount followed;<br/>
then the History of Joseph; then a<br/>
sequel to the Spelling-book, a small<br/>
Arithmetic etc. * * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Again, simultaneously with read-<br/>
ing, the people learned to write, just<br/>
as far as they could get the apparatus,<br/>
i. e. pon, or pencil, and paper, or slates<br/>
and pencils. * * * *It was often said,<br/>
-—and I never heard it disputed,<br/>
that every Hawaiian who could<br/>
procure a slate knew how to write.<br/>
"In February, 1832, a Hawaiian weekly<br/>
periodical (Lamer Hawaii), of four<br/>
quarto pages, was commenced at<br/>
Lahainaluna, one condition of which<br/>
was, that one full page of each number<br/>
was reserved for the original thoughts<br/>
of Hawaiians; and they filled it with<br/>
respectable newspaper matter. And a<br/>
Hawaiian periodical has been kept up<br/>
from that time to the present, no in-<br/>
considerable portion of which has been<br/>
furnished by Hawaiians themselves.<br/>
Hero then are readers and writers to<br/>
no small extent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Another thing taught and learned,<br/>
and in a good degree understood in<br/>
native schools, is Arithmetic; and it<br/>
is of just the same value to Hawaiians,<br/>
so far as mental improvement is con-<br/>
cerned as arithmetic is in any other<br/>
language. * * * And the treatises that<br/>
have been prepared and printed and<br/>
studied, are not mere first books for<br/>
children, but such are studied in com-<br/>
mon and higher schools in the United<br/>
States and England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Again in the higher schools of La-<br/>
hainaluna, Hilo and Waioh, neither<br/>
teachers nor scholars have stopped at<br/>
arithmetic, but have gone a step further<br/>
—-into algebra. And any one by ex-<br/>
amination, may be assured, not only<br/>
that the Hawaiian language is capable<br/>
of expressing the terms of that science,<br/>
but that Hawaiian minds are capable<br/>
of understanding its principles, and<br/>
solving its problems.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Again, Surveying has not only<br/>
been theoretically taught through the<br/>
medium of the Hawaiian language, but<br/>
carried out in practice for several years<br/>
past. No small part of the surveying<br/>
of the Islands, is now in the hands of<br/>
the Hawaiians who have learned it<br/>
entirely in their own language.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Geography next to Arithmetic, has<br/>
been a favorite study calculated to<br/>
enlarge their minds, excite their<br/>
curiosity, and probably has led some<br/>
to ship as seamen that they might see<br/>
foreign countries. And this has been<br/>
done in their own language.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Hitherto I have spoken only of the<br/>
intellectual improvement, or simply<br/>
the gain of knowledge. But the moral<br/>
and religious instruction which Hawai-<br/>
ians have gained through the medium<br/>
of their own language is, in my opin-<br/>
ion, of vastly greater importance. They<br/>
have received it in schools, from peri-<br/>
odicals, from tracts, from reading the<br/>
Bible, and from hearing the gospel<br/>
preached from Sabbath to Sabbath.<br/>
* * * * They have learned from the<br/>
Bible their relationship to God and to<br/>
one another, and the duties growing<br/>
out of that relationship. They have,<br/>
learned, —moreover, the plan of salva-<br/>
tion through the obedience, sufferings,<br/>
and death of the Son of God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Besides the Bible they have read<br/>
many other moral and religious books,<br/>
as they have been prepared or trans-<br/>
lated for them; such as Wayland's<br/>
moral Philosophy, Gallaudet's treatise<br/>
in the soul, Baxter's Saint's Rest etc.<br/>
etc. Besides the moral and religious<br/>
lessons in the weekly publications.<br/>
The value of this kind of instruction<br/>
cannot be estimated in dollars and<br/>
cents. We may see some of its effects<br/>
in the morals of the people; the quiet-<br/>
ing of the war spirit for almost forty<br/>
years; the general adherence to a writ-<br/>
ten code of laws; the almost entire<br/>
cessation of the murderous spirit; the<br/>
adoption of the Sabbath instead of the<br/>
arbitrary tabas; the general safety<br/>
of foreign residents; the peaceful pos-<br/>
session of property; the liberty and<br/>
form of religious worship, etc, etc. All<br/>
this state of things is not easy to be<br/>
accounted for, except by means of the<br/>
moral and religious instruction con-<br/>
veyed to the masses, through their<br/>
own language, and primarily in native<br/>
schools".
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Excerpts from Ruskin.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In his last volume Ruskin has, as usual,<br/>
many trenchant passages. Of the mo-<br/>
ney worshippers, he says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"However, in every nation there are,<br/>
and must be a certain number of these<br/>
Fiend's servants, who have it principally<br/>
for the object of their lives to make money.<br/>
They are always, as I said, more or less<br/>
stupid, and cannot conceive of anything<br/>
else so nice as money. Stupidity is always<br/>
the basis of the Judas bargain. "We do<br/>
great injustice to Iscariot, in thinking him<br/>
wicked above all common wickedness. He<br/>
was only a common money-lover, and, like<br/>
all money-lovers, didn't understand Christ;<br/>
couldn't make out the worth of him, or the<br/>
meaning of him. He didn't want Him<br/>
to be killed. He was horror struck when<br/>
he found that Christ would be killed;<br/>
threw his money away instantly, and hang-<br/>
ed himself. How many of our present<br/>
money-seekers, think you, would have<br/>
the grace to hang themselves, whoever<br/>
was killed? But Judas was a common,<br/>
selfish, muddle-headed, pilfering fellow;<br/>
his hand always in the bag of the poor.<br/>
not caring for them. He didn't under-<br/>
stand Christ; yet believed in him, much<br/>
more than most of us do; had seen Him<br/>
do miracles, thought He was quite strong<br/>
enough to shift for himself, and he, Ju-<br/>
das, might as well make his own little by-<br/>
perquisites out of the affair. Christ would<br/>
come out of it well enough, and he have<br/>
his thirty pieces. Now, that is the money-<br/>
seeker's idea, all over the world. He<br/>
doesn't hate Christ, but can't understand<br/>
Him—doesn't care for Him—sees no good<br/>
in that benevolent business; makes his<br/>
own little job out of it at all events, come<br/>
what will. And thus, out of every mass<br/>
of men, you have a certain number of<br/>
bagmen—your 'fee-first' men, whose main<br/>
object is to make money. And they do<br/>
make it in all sorts of unfair ways, chiefly<br/>
by the weight and force of money itself,<br/>
or what is called the power of capital;<br/>
that is to say, the power which money,<br/>
once obtained, has over the labor of the<br/>
poor, so that the capitalist can take all<br/>
its produce to himself, except the labor-<br/>
er's food. That is the modern Judas'<br/>
way of 'carrying the bag,' and 'bearing<br/>
what is put therein.'—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Almost Swearing.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As I was walking down street the oth-<br/>
er day, I met three little boys on the side-<br/>
walk playing marbles. I watched them<br/>
with some interest as I passed slowly by<br/>
them, they seemed so happy and interest-<br/>
ed in their game; when one of them ex-<br/>
claimed, "by George, that was a lucky hit,<br/>
wasn't it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second boy looked up in much sur-<br/>
prise at the words he used. "Why Char-<br/>
lie," said he, "you are a swearer." "No,<br/>
I a'n't," said Charlie; "that isn't swear-<br/>
ing."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, it's almost swearing, at any rate,<br/>
mother says so; and she tells me not to<br/>
use such words, for if I do, I shall say<br/>
bad words before I think of it."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That mother was right in telling her<br/>
son not to use such words. There are<br/>
many similar words and expressions which<br/>
boys are much in the habit of using; but<br/>
as that boy said, it is very easy to go from<br/>
these to something worse, and finally to<br/>
profane swearing. No Christian gentle-<br/>
man, and certainly no lady of refinement<br/>
ever says, "By George," or uses any<br/>
other similar expression. It adds no force<br/>
to what is said. It not only borders on<br/>
profanity, but shows a lack of true re-<br/>
finement. The best of all books says,<br/>
"Let your communications be, Yea, yea;<br/>
Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than<br/>
these cometh of evil." —CHILD'S PAPER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How the Fox was Fooled.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A cock had just crowed upon his dung-<br/>
hill. A fox was watching him but dared<br/>
not approach very near for fear of frigh-<br/>
tening him, He therefore employed this<br/>
ruse:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
”My dear sir,” he said, “I can no long-<br/>
er resist my desire to tell you how much<br/>
pleasure you have given me. It is a long<br/>
time that I have been looking at you, and<br/>
you are, I must confess, the most per-<br/>
fect creature I ever beheld. But what<br/>
pleases me, above everything else, is your<br/>
voice. In my whole life, I never heard<br/>
one like it, except, perhaps, that of your<br/>
father. And it was remarkable in him<br/>
that he sang with his eyes shut.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
”I can do the same,” replied the cock,<br/>
and immediately he shut his eyes, spread<br/>
his wings, and was going to crow, when<br/>
the fox seized him and carried him off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Happily for him, some shepherds who<br/>
were at a little distance, saw the robber<br/>
carrying off his prey, and let loose their<br/>
dogs upon him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cock then used a little art in his<br/>
turn, and said to the robber, “Tell them<br/>
that I am one of your friends, and they<br/>
will let you go.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fox, believing this, opened his<br/>
mouth to speak, and so let go his bird,<br/>
which immediately flew into a tree and<br/>
mocked him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
”Woe unto him who speaks when he<br/>
ought to be silent,” said the cock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
”Woe unto him who shuts his eyes<br/>
when he ought to have them open!” ob-<br/>
served the fox.—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Napoleon Happy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news by the Atlantic Cable contains<br/>
a most comforting assurance of the su-<br/>
preme satisfaction with which the Emperor,<br/>
of France regards the upshot of things in<br/>
Europe. "The French circular says that<br/>
the recent changes in Europe are favorable<br/>
to France, Prussia and Italy are drawn<br/>
nearer in ideas and interest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria has now no hostile intent. The<br/>
convention of Rome will be loyally carried<br/>
out. Navies of second-class powers as-<br/>
sure the liberty of the Baltic and the<br/>
Mediterranean." "Everything is lovely."<br/>
and not even Mr. Seward could be more<br/>
ecstatic in his assured optimism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Happy man! Why should he not be de-<br/>
lighted? After brooding over his "Napo-<br/>
leonic ideas" for thirty years, until the<br/>
time has arrived for their biggest realiza-<br/>
tion, and after having invested his literary<br/>
reputation in support of the [.....]<br/>
Caesarism, which was to put his anticipal-<br/>
ed glory high on the pages of history, he<br/>
undertook the actual performance of his<br/>
destined part as the master of the situation<br/>
in Europe. He offered himself as the in-<br/>
fallible counsellor, the final arbiter, the<br/>
rightful divider of nationalities, to advise<br/>
how Germany ought to be rearranged,<br/>
be rearranged, to determine on what terms<br/>
Italy should obtain Venetia, and to recon-<br/>
struct the map of Europe; and to his sur-<br/>
prise he found that nobody listened to him<br/>
or heeded his counsels, or cared for his<br/>
expressed wishes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Parties with one consent minded their<br/>
own business, managed their own affairs,<br/>
and settled their own difficulties, precisely<br/>
as they would have done if there had been<br/>
no such ruler as Napoleon III., and no such<br/>
country in Europe as the empire of France.<br/>
Even the anxiety which ruled the Congress<br/>
of Vienna, to arrange Europe in such a man-<br/>
ner as to prevent the revival of Napoleon-<br/>
ism, is no longer apparent. Nobody fears<br/>
him, nobody cares for him. He may re-<br/>
main the monarch of France as long as the<br/>
French people deem it for their interest to<br/>
retain him, or he might be driven from pow-<br/>
er to-morrow; and Europe, in its march<br/>
toward international independence and<br/>
harmony, neither feel his presence nor<br/>
would regard his exit with anything ap-<br/>
proaching to a convulsive sensation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let him be pleased with all this, if he<br/>
will; it is all he can do. Let him be dis-<br/>
pleased, if that suits his humor, he cannot<br/>
help himself. The great bugbear which<br/>
seemed to darken the whole hemisphere<br/>
has dissolved into thin air. Europe breathes<br/>
freely. Nations will now govern themselves,<br/>
and strive to promote their own, and the<br/>
advancement of each other, by cultivating<br/>
the arts of peace. The Dragon of Wantley<br/>
has turned to a shepherd's dog, and wags<br/>
his tail with delight over the bone which<br/>
Europe leaves at his disposal.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Casket of Gems.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is gratitude ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gratitude is the memory of the heart,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is hope ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hope is the blossom of happiness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is the difference between hope<br/>
and desire ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Desire is a tree in leaf; hope is a tree<br/>
in flower, and enjoyment is a tree in<br/>
fruit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is eternity ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A day without yesterday or tomorrow;<br/>
a line that has no ends.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is time ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A line that has two ends ; a path which<br/>
begins in the cradle and ends in the tomb.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is God ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The necessary being; the sun of eter-<br/>
nity; the machinist of nature; the eye of<br/>
justice; the watchmaker of the universe;<br/>
the soul of the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Does God reason ?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Man reasons because he doubts ; he de-<br/>
liberates; he decides. God is omniscient;<br/>
he knows all things; he never doubts; he<br/>
therefore never reasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The foundation of domestic happiness<br/>
is faith in the virtue of woman: the<br/>
foundation of political happiness is con-<br/>
fidence in the integrity of man: and the<br/>
foundation of all happiness, whether tem-<br/>
poral or eternal, is reliance on the good-<br/>
ness of God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We become familiar with the outsides<br/>
of men as with the outsides of houses, and<br/>
think that we know them, while we are ig-<br/>
norant of all that is passing within them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Local No. 2.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LAKAWN—-On a ramble to day in the<br/>
street Charon Kroong we noticed that<br/>
the king's convicts, who are daily call-<br/>
ed out to work on one of the iron bridg-<br/>
es, had all turned out to planeing betel<br/>
wood for posts. We inquired of a<br/>
friend what that had to do with the<br/>
bridge. His reply was-—that the posts<br/>
were not at all for the bridge, but for<br/>
a lakawn (theatrical) shed at the Brit-<br/>
ish Consulate. But, said we, how is<br/>
it that the British Consul can com-<br/>
mand the king's conviet's for his own<br/>
work? Why, said he, it is not the Con-<br/>
sul that does it, but the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment who have ordered to have a<br/>
lakawn play at the British Consulate<br/>
next Sunday in honor of the officers<br/>
of the British man of war lately arri-<br/>
ved. Is it possible, thought we, that<br/>
such a desecration of the Lord's day<br/>
will be allowed “within the gates” of<br/>
that Consulate—of a Christian kingdom<br/>
—-and that too of the Protestant type!<br/>
May heaven forbid it. We hope there<br/>
has been a mistake in the day
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Wm. Dean D. D. and his wife<br/>
left the city on the 10th inst, in a sea<br/>
boat, partly for an itinerant excursion,<br/>
and partly for recruiting health at Bangs<br/>
plasoi and Anghin
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M's War Steamer, “Pearl”<br/>
brought us files of papers from the U.<br/>
S. to Oct. 5th; from London to 27th<br/>
Oct.; from India to Nov. 8th; from<br/>
Rangoon to Nov. 19th; from Manil-<br/>
main to Nov. 17th; from Penaug to<br/>
Nov. 29th; and from Singapore to the<br/>
24th of November.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Wreck Register
and Chart for 1865.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A FOREIGNER, looking at the wreck<br/>
chart of the British Isles, might not un-<br/>
naturally conceive that a very large pro-<br/>
portion of the ships that pass to and<br/>
from our ports every year were wrecked<br/>
on our shores. When, however, he came<br/>
to be informed that the number of<br/>
vessels that cleared outwards and entered<br/>
inwards last year alone, from the different<br/>
ports in the United Kingdom (without<br/>
counting vessels employed solely as pas-<br/>
senger-ships), was 409,255; that they<br/>
represented a tonnage of 65,231,034; and<br/>
that the value of their cargoes must be<br/>
estimated at not less than £500,000,000;<br/>
the said foreigner would probably be<br/>
much surprised after all to learn that not<br/>
one per cent. of this great multitude of<br/>
vessels was wrecked either in our narrow<br/>
seas or on our coasts. Such, neverthe-<br/>
less, was the case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the carefully-compiled wreck<br/>
register of the Board of Trade we find<br/>
that the total number of wrecks and<br/>
casualties from all causes on the coasts<br/>
of the United Kingdom and the surround-<br/>
ing seas, reported in 1865, is 1656.<br/>
The number reported in 1864 was 1390.<br/>
The corrected annual average of the<br/>
eleven years from 1855 to 1865 inclusive<br/>
was 1372. It should, however, be men-<br/>
tioned that the wrecks in 1864 were be-<br/>
low the average of the preceding five<br/>
years, although they were above the cor-<br/>
rected average of the last ten years.<br/>
The number of ships lost or damaged in<br/>
the 1656 casualties reported in 1865 was<br/>
2012, representing a registered tonnage<br/>
of upwards of 377,000 tons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of these 2012 ships 1690 are known<br/>
to have been ships belonging to Great<br/>
Britain and its dependencies, with Brit-<br/>
ish certificates of registry, and 238 to<br/>
have been foreign ships. Of the remain-<br/>
ing 84 ships the country and employ-<br/>
ment are unknown. Of the British ships<br/>
1198 were employed in the British coas-<br/>
ting trade, and 492 were employed in<br/>
the (over sea) foreign and home trade;<br/>
and of the foreign ships 11 were employ-<br/>
ed in the British coasting trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Of the total number of casualties<br/>
(1656) reported in 1865, 554 were col-<br/>
lisions and 1102 were casualties other<br/>
than collisions. Of these 1656 casualties<br/>
540 resulted in total losses and 1116 in<br/>
partial damage more or less serious. We<br/>
find that 470 total losses took place from<br/>
causes other than collisions; 245 only<br/>
were caused by stress of weather; 99<br/>
were caused by inattention, carelessness,<br/>
or neglect; 38 arose from defects in the<br/>
ship or in her equipments (and of these<br/>
38 no less than 30 appear to have found-<br/>
ered from unseaworthiness), and the<br/>
remainder from various other causes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a remarkable fact that, taking the<br/>
past seven years as our guide, we find<br/>
that casualties to comparatively new<br/>
ships continue to bear a very high pro-<br/>
portion to the whole number of disasters,<br/>
thus—908 casualties happened to nearly<br/>
new ships, and 1701 to ships from three<br/>
to seven years of age. Then there are<br/>
casualties to 1087 ships from seven to<br/>
fourteen years old, and 3477 from fifteen<br/>
to thirty years old. Then follow 1267<br/>
ships from thirty to fifteen years old.<br/>
Having passed the service of half a cen-<br/>
tury, we come to the really old ships<br/>
—-viz., 230 between fifty and sixty years<br/>
old, 102 from sixty to seventy, 48 from<br/>
seventy to eighty, 14 from eighty to<br/>
ninety to a hundred, and 4 one hundred<br/>
and one years and upwards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As regards the loss of life, the returns<br/>
show that the number lost from ship-<br/>
wreck on or near the coast of the United<br/>
Kingdom in 1865 was 698. These lives<br/>
were lost in 164 ships: 124 of them were<br/>
laden vessels, 33 were vessels in ballast,<br/>
and in seven cases it is not known<br/>
whether the vessels were laden or light:<br/>
131 of those ships were entirely lost, and<br/>
33 sustained partial on board vessels in<br/>
collisions, and 335 in vessels that were<br/>
stranded or cast ashore. The remaining<br/>
number, 35, were lost from various<br/>
causes, such as being washed overboard<br/>
in heavy seas, by explosions, &c. The<br/>
loss of life in 1864 was 516, which was<br/>
less than the number in any year since<br/>
1855. In that year (1855) the National<br/>
Lifeboat Institution began to take most<br/>
active steps to provide our coasts with<br/>
life-boats, having, during the previous<br/>
thirty years, struggled hard for support<br/>
to carry on its great and national work<br/>
on our shores: but in that year the late<br/>
Captain Hamilton Fitzgerald, R. N., left<br/>
the society the magnificent legacy of<br/>
£10,000. Its committee most wisely and<br/>
promptly decided to spend the whole of<br/>
the money in placing new life-boats on<br/>
the coast. Since that period the insti-<br/>
tution has contributed to the saving of<br/>
5758 lives from shipwrecks. How many<br/>
of these persons, in addition to their<br/>
wives, children, and other relations, have<br/>
reason this day to bless the name of this<br/>
and many other benefactors who have<br/>
given the cost of life-boats, and who<br/>
have thus aided to accomplish such a<br/>
large amount of solid, palpable good<br/>
work!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest loss of life during the<br/>
seven years ending in 1865 occurred in<br/>
the Irish Sea, which is one of our prin-<br/>
cipal highways to and from America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Amidst this desolation and havoc it is<br/>
very satisfactory to find that the means<br/>
of saving life from shipwreck on our<br/>
coast have made, and are making, the<br/>
most encouraging progress. There are<br/>
now nearly 200 life-boat stations on our<br/>
shores, and nearly the whole of them be-<br/>
long to the National Life-boat Insti-<br/>
tution, whose activity and usefulness<br/>
have commanded, not only the admira-<br/>
tion of the British people and Parliament,<br/>
but also that of nearly every maritime<br/>
Power throughout the world. Indeed,<br/>
it is a remarkable fact that during the<br/>
past few years kindred institutions have<br/>
been established on the coasts of many<br/>
of these nations, while at one of our<br/>
thriving colonies in the antipodes, it is<br/>
reported to the institution, they have<br/>
built self-righting life-boats equal to<br/>
those of the mother country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again, the board of Trade support<br/>
249 life-saving rocket-apparatus stations,<br/>
which are worked by that valuable body<br/>
of men the coastguard.—LON. ILL. NEWS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
President Lincoln's Policy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So much is recklessly said about Pres-<br/>
ident Lincoln's policy, that it is profita-<br/>
ble to examine its nature, once in a while,<br/>
to see how utterly at variance with it is<br/>
the so-called "policy" of President<br/>
Johnson. We publish an extract from<br/>
a letter of President Lincoln to the la-<br/>
mented GENERAL Wadsworth, just before<br/>
the latter was killed at Spottsylvania,Pres-<br/>
ident Lincoln said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You desire to know, in the event of<br/>
our success in the field, the same being<br/>
followed by a loyal, cheerful submission<br/>
on the part of the South, if universal<br/>
amnesty should be accompanied with<br/>
universal suffrage. If our success shall<br/>
be realized, followed by such desired<br/>
result, I cannot see, if universal amnesty<br/>
is granted, under the circumstances, I<br/>
can avoid exacting in return universal<br/>
suffrage on the basis of intelligence and<br/>
military service. How to better the<br/>
condition of the colored race has been a<br/>
study which has attracted my serious and<br/>
careful attention. Hence, I think I am<br/>
clear and decided as to what course I<br/>
shall pursue in the premises—regarding<br/>
it a religious duty, as the Nation's guar-<br/>
dian of those people, who have so heroi-<br/>
cally vindicated their manhood on the bat-<br/>
tle-field where, in assisting to save the life<br/>
of the Republic they have demonstrated<br/>
in their blood their right to the ballot,<br/>
which is the humane protection of the flag<br/>
they have so fearlessly defended.—L.C.N.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mr. Beecher's Letter.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am not discouraged at the failure to<br/>
do the good I meant, at the misapprehen-<br/>
sion of my church, nor the severity of<br/>
former friends. Just now those angry<br/>
voices come to me as rude winds roar<br/>
through the trees. As soon as my health<br/>
is again restored, I shall go right on in<br/>
the very course I have hitherto pursued.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Who will follow or accompany it is for<br/>
others to decide. I shall labor for the<br/>
education of the whole people; for the<br/>
enfranchisement of men without regard<br/>
to class, caste, or color; for full develop-<br/>
ment among all nations or the liberty<br/>
wherewith Christ makes men free. In<br/>
doing this I will cheerfully work with par-<br/>
ties, any and all men that seek the same<br/>
glorious ends. But I will not become a<br/>
partisan. I will reserve my right to differ<br/>
and dissent, and respect the same right<br/>
in others. Seeking others, full manhood<br/>
and true personal liberty, I do not mean<br/>
to forfeit my own.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Better days are coming. These throes<br/>
of our day are labor-pains. God will bring<br/>
forth ere long great blessings. In some<br/>
moments which it pleases God to give me,<br/>
I think I discern arising beyond the pre-<br/>
sent troubles, and over the other side of<br/>
this abyss in which the nation wallows,<br/>
that fair form of Liberty—God's dear<br/>
child—whose whole beauty was never yet<br/>
disclosed. I know her solemn face. That<br/>
she is divine, I know by her girdle of pur-<br/>
ity, by her sceptre of justice, and by that<br/>
atmosphere of love that, issuing from her<br/>
as light from a star, moves with her, more<br/>
royal than a king's apparel. In this, too,<br/>
I know her divinity, that she shall bless<br/>
both friends and enemies, and yield the<br/>
fullest fruition of liberty to those who<br/>
would have slain her; as, one, her Mas-<br/>
ter gave His life for the salvation of those<br/>
who slew him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am your true friend and pastor,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
HENRY WARD BEECHER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The "Lubra" Piracy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The public will be glad to learn that<br/>
Mrs Howes, the widow of Capt. Howes,<br/>
who was so foully murdered on board the<br/>
LUBRA, on Monday afternoon identified<br/>
one of the scoundrels who was most ac-<br/>
tive in that dreadful act of piracy and mur-<br/>
der.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs Howes picked him out from a<br/>
number of prisoners who were paraded<br/>
in the Gaol for the purpose of inspection<br/>
by her. We understand that her iden-<br/>
tification of the fellow is complete, and<br/>
that it justifies the suspicions that had<br/>
previously fallen upon him. It will be re-<br/>
membered that when Captain Howes was<br/>
deliberately shot, his wife was by his side<br/>
with her two children; one was an infant,<br/>
nearly four months old—-it died Monday<br/>
morning. Much sympathy is felt for Mrs<br/>
Howes in her very painful position.—-O.<br/>
CHINA MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Butler's Speech.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We cannot report the speech and do<br/>
it any justice.-—It was as he promised in<br/>
beginning, didactic, but the Butlerian<br/>
blade would flash out now and then in<br/>
some keen turn so characteristic of the<br/>
man; the same cutting wit that make the<br/>
General's field orders as spicy reading as<br/>
Punch. Briefly reviewing the history of<br/>
events that led to the war and defending<br/>
the consistency of his own record by a<br/>
clever absurdity in distinguishing be-<br/>
tween the duties of a man and a citizen,<br/>
he gave a clear review of the policy of Con-<br/>
gress and a most convincing defense of its<br/>
position. We do not question that most<br/>
of the audience went away with a clearer<br/>
reason for the faith that was in them than<br/>
they had before. Mr. Johnson was treated<br/>
to sundry sharp thrusts, and the speech<br/>
was not without passages of high elo-<br/>
quence. The story of the charge of the<br/>
colored troops on New Market Heights,<br/>
just two years before to a day-of which<br/>
the Fifth Regiment, led by Gen. Shurt-<br/>
leff, was one—stilled the audience to a<br/>
quiet only equalled by the outbursts of<br/>
applause that followed it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With his drooping eye-lid, twisting of<br/>
the mouth, short neck, shambling gait<br/>
and hesitancy of speech, the General is<br/>
the impersonation of awkwardness, but<br/>
his earnestness and pithiness of expres-<br/>
sion cover all these shortcomings and tell<br/>
wonderfully on an audience. We are not<br/>
admirers of his military or commercial<br/>
record but we should expect to go far to<br/>
find any one with a sounder position or<br/>
manlier arguments on the great issues of<br/>
the hour.-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Malherbe Jullian & Co.<br/>
beg to inform the public, that<br/>
they have established a branch of their<br/>
business in the house formerly occupied<br/>
by F. Blake Esq. near the Portuguese<br/>
Consulate, and that they have just re-<br/>
ceived a large supply of almost every<br/>
thing their customers may desire to<br/>
purchase, and would hereby invite<br/>
them to come and inspect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Dec. 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE BEG to inform the Public,<br/>
that we have received a new<br/>
and fine assortment of all kinds of<br/>
liquids as, Champaigne, 1st mark<br/>
Roederer and Sacguesson, superior and<br/>
inferior kinds of Bordeaux and Bar-<br/>
gundy wine, Porto, Sberry and Brandy<br/>
of different marks, English and Ger-<br/>
man Beer. Also fruits, jellies, raisins<br/>
for puddings, and various kinds of<br/>
Biscuits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
