---
linkTitle: 'November 15th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 15th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 15th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 68
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY,</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">November 15th, 1866</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 45.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Knocking! Ever Knocking!
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Knocking, knocking, ever knocking!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Who is there?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Tis a pilgrim, strange and kingly,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Never such was seen before—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ah, sweet soul, for such a wonder,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Undo the door.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No-—that door is hard to open;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Hinges rusty, latch is broken;<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Bid Him go.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wherefore, with that knocking dreary<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Scare the sleep from one so weary?<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Say Him—no.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Knocking, knocking, ever knocking!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}What! Still there?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}O, sweet soul, but once behold Him,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With the glory-crowned hair;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And those eyes so strange and tender,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Waiting there;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Open! Open! Once behold Him,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Him, so fair.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ah, that door! Why wilt Thou vex me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Coming over to perplex me?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For the key is stiffly rusty,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the bolt is clogged and dusty;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Many—fingered ivy vine<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Seals it fast with twist and twine;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Weeds of years and years before,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Choke the passage of that door.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Knocking! Knocking! What! Still knocking!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}He still there?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}What's the hour? The night is waning—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In my heart a dread complaining,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And a chilly sad unrest!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ah, this knocking! It disturbs me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Scares my sleep with dreams unblest!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Give me rest,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Rest-—ah, rest!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Rest, dear soul, He longs to give thee;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thou hast only dreamed of pleasure,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Dreamed of gifts and golden treasure,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Dreamed of jewels in thy keeping,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Waked to weariness of weeping—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Open to thy soul's one Lover,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And thy night of dreams is over—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The true gift He brings have seeming<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}More than all thy faded dreaming!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Did she open? Doth she? Will she?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So, as wondering we behold,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Grows a picture to a sign<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pressed upon your soul and mine;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For in every breast that liveth<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Is that strange mysterious door;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The forsaken and betangled,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ivy-gnarled and weed-bejangled,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Dusty, rusty and forgotten—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}There the pierced hand still knocketh,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And with ever patient watching.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With the sad eyes true and tender,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With the glory-crowned hair—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Still a God is waiting there.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
-—WATCHMAN AND REFLECTOR.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Appeal of the loyal men
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
OF THE SOUTH TO THEIR FELLOW CITIZENS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The representatives of eight millions of Ame-<br/>
rican citizens appeal for protection and justice<br/>
to their friends and brothers in the states that<br/>
have been spared the cruelties of the rebellion<br/>
and the direct horrors of civil war. Here, on<br/>
the spot where freedom was proffered and<br/>
pledged by the fathers of the Republic, we<br/>
implore your help against a reorganized op-<br/>
pression, whose sole object is to remit the<br/>
control of our destinies to the contrivers of the<br/>
rebellion, after they have been vanquished in<br/>
honorable battle; thus at once to punish us<br/>
for our devotion to our country and to entrench<br/>
themselves in the official fortifications of the<br/>
government. Others have related the thrill-<br/>
ing story of our wrongs from reading and<br/>
observation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We come before you as another, God witness<br/>
and speak from personal knowledge and<br/>
experience. If you fail us we are more<br/>
utterly deserted and betrayed, than if the con-<br/>
test had been decided against us; for, in that<br/>
case, even victorious slavery would have found<br/>
profit in the speedy pardon of those who had<br/>
been among its bravest foes. Unexpected per-<br/>
fidy in the highest place of the government,<br/>
accidentally filled by one who adds cruelty to<br/>
ingratitude, and forgives the guilty as he<br/>
persecutes the innocent, has stimulated the<br/>
almost extinguished revenge of the beaten<br/>
conspirators, and now the rebels who offered<br/>
to yield everything to save their own lives,<br/>
are seeking to consign us to bloody graves.<br/>
Where we expected a benefactor we find a<br/>
persecutor. Having lost our champion we<br/>
return to you, who can make presidents and<br/>
punish traitors. Our last hope under God is<br/>
the unity and firmness of the States that elect-<br/>
ed Abraham Lincoln and defeated Jefferson<br/>
Davis. The best statement of our case is the<br/>
appalling yet unconscious confession of And-<br/>
rew Johnson, who in savage hatred of his own<br/>
record proclaims his purpose to clothe the four<br/>
millions of traitors with the power to im-<br/>
poverish and degrade eight millions of loyal<br/>
men. Our wrongs bear alike on all races, and<br/>
our tyrants, unchecked by you, will award<br/>
the same fate to white and black. We can<br/>
remain as we are only as inferiors and victims.<br/>
We may fly from our houses, but we should<br/>
fear to trust our fate with those who, after<br/>
denouncing and defeating traitors, refused to<br/>
right those who have bravely assisted them in<br/>
the good work. Till we are wholly rescued,<br/>
there is neither peace for you nor prosperity<br/>
for us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We cannot better define at once our wrongs<br/>
and our wants than by declaring that since<br/>
Andrew Johnson affiliated with his early slan-<br/>
derers and our constant enemies, his hand<br/>
has been laid heavily upon every earnest<br/>
loyalist in the South. History, the just judg-<br/>
ment of the present, and the certain consummation<br/>
of the future, invite and command us to<br/>
declare:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That, after rejecting his own remedies for<br/>
restoring the Union, he has resorted to the<br/>
weapons of traitors to bruise and beat down<br/>
patriots;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That after declaring that none but the loyal<br/>
should govern the reconstructed South, he has<br/>
practised upon the maxim that none but<br/>
traitors shall rule;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That while in the North he has removed<br/>
conscientious men from office, and filled many<br/>
of the vacancies with the sympathizers of trea-<br/>
son, in the South he has removed the proved<br/>
and trusted patriot and selected the equally<br/>
proved and convicted traitor;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That, after brave men, who had fought for<br/>
the old flag, have been nominated for posi-<br/>
tions, their names have been recalled and<br/>
avowed rebels substituted;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That every original Unionist in the South,<br/>
who stands fast to Andrew Johnson's coven-<br/>
ants from 1861 to 1865, has been ostracized;<br/>
that he has corrupted the local courts by offer-<br/>
ing premiums for the defiance of the laws of<br/>
Congress and by openly discouraging the ob-<br/>
servance of the oath against treason; that<br/>
while refusing to punish one single conspicu-<br/>
ous traitor, though thousands had earned the<br/>
penalty of death, more than a thousand of<br/>
devoted Union citizens have been murdered in<br/>
cold blood since the surrender of Lee; and in<br/>
no case have their assassins been brought to<br/>
judgment; that he has pardoned some of the<br/>
worst of the rebel criminals north and south,<br/>
including some who have taken human life<br/>
under circumstances of unparalleled atrocity;<br/>
that while denouncing and fettering the opera-<br/>
tions of the Freedmen's Bureau, he with full<br/>
knowledge of the falsehood, has charged that<br/>
the black men are lazy and rebellious, and has<br/>
concealed the fact that more whites than blacks<br/>
have been protected and fed by that noble<br/>
organization; and that while declaring that it<br/>
was corruptly managed and expensive to the<br/>
government, he has connived at a system of<br/>
profligacy in the use of the public patronage<br/>
and public money, wholly without parallel,<br/>
save when the traitors bankrupted the Treas-<br/>
ury and sought to disorganize and scatter the<br/>
army and the navy, only to make it more easy<br/>
to capture the government;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That while declaring against the injustice of<br/>
leaving eleven states unrepresented, he has<br/>
refused to authorize the liberal plan of Con-<br/>
gress, simply because it recognizes the loyal<br/>
majority and refuses to perpetuate the traitor<br/>
minority;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That in every state south of Mason and<br/>
Dixon's line his “policy” has wrought the<br/>
most deplorable consequences, social, moral<br/>
and political. It has emboldened returned<br/>
rebels to threaten civil war in Maryland, Mis-<br/>
souri, West Virginia and Tennessee, unless<br/>
the patriots who saved and sealed these states<br/>
to the old flag surrender before the arrogant<br/>
demand. It has corrupted high state officials<br/>
elected by Union men and sworn to enforce<br/>
the laws against rebels, and made<br/>
them the mere instruments of the authors of<br/>
the rebellion. It has encouraged a new alien-<br/>
ation between the sections, and by impeding<br/>
emigration to the South has created a favor-<br/>
able barrier to free and friendly inter-<br/>
course in the North and West. It has allowed<br/>
the rebel soldiery to persecute the members of<br/>
the colored schools and to burn the churches<br/>
in which the freedmen here worshipped the<br/>
living God. This a system so barbarous<br/>
should have culminated in the frightful riot at<br/>
Memphis, and the still more appalling mas-<br/>
sacre at New Orleans, was as natural as that<br/>
a bloody war should now be impending as the<br/>
rule of John C. Calhoun and Jefferson Davis. An-<br/>
drew Johnson is responsible for all these un-<br/>
speakable cruelties, and he provoked and<br/>
sustained and applauded them, sending his agents<br/>
and emissaries into this woful land to excite<br/>
republicans to initiate new outrages; his reckless<br/>
policy to put upon a Southern people. He fur-<br/>
ther says that those persons who were at the insur-<br/>
rection against the Constitution were not<br/>
only denied to the free people of New Orleans<br/>
who on the 30th of July, when they assembled to<br/>
discuss how best to protect themselves; but<br/>
denied admittance to the slaughter of hundreds of in-<br/>
nocent men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No page in the record of his recent outrages<br/>
upon human justice and constitutional law is<br/>
more revolting than that which convicts him<br/>
of refusing to arrest the preparations for that<br/>
savage carnival, and not only of refusing to<br/>
punish its authors, but of toiling to throw the<br/>
guilty responsibility upon unoffending and in-<br/>
nocent freedmen. The infatuated tyrant that<br/>
stood ready to crush his own people in Tennes-<br/>
see when they were struggling to maintain a<br/>
government erected by himself, against his<br/>
and other traitors' persecutions, was even<br/>
more eager to illustrate his savage policy by<br/>
clothing with the most despotic power the<br/>
rioters of New Orleans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notwithstanding this heartless desertion<br/>
and cruel persecution by Andrew Johnson,<br/>
the states of Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee,<br/>
Western Virginia, Maryland and Delaware,<br/>
imbued with democratic republican principles<br/>
—principles which the fathers of the republic<br/>
designed for all America, are now making<br/>
determined battle with the enemies of free<br/>
constitutional government, and by the bles-<br/>
sing of God these states will soon range them-<br/>
selves in line with the former free states, and<br/>
illustrate the wisdom and beneficence of the<br/>
great charter of American liberty by their in-<br/>
creasing population, wealth and prosperity in<br/>
the remaining ten states. The seeds of oligar-<br/>
chy, planted in the Constitution by its slavery<br/>
feature, have grown to be a monstrous power,<br/>
whose recognition thus wrung from these re-<br/>
luctant framers of that great instrument enabl-<br/>
ed these states to entrench themselves behind<br/>
the perverted doctrine of states rights, and<br/>
sheltered by a claim of constitutional obliga-<br/>
tion to maintain slavery in the states to present<br/>
to the American government the alternatives<br/>
of oligarchy with slavery, or democratic-re-<br/>
publican governments without slavery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
   A forbearing government, bowing to a sup-<br/>
posed constitutional behest, acquiesced in the<br/>
former alternative. The hand of the govern-<br/>
ment was stayed for eighty years. The prin-<br/>
ciples of constitutional liberty languished for<br/>
want of government support. Oligarchy matur-<br/>
ed its power with subtle design. Its history<br/>
for eighty years is replete with unparalleled<br/>
injuries and usurpations; it developed only<br/>
the agricultural localities geographically dis-<br/>
tinct from the free labor localities, and less<br/>
than one third of the whole with African slav-<br/>
es. It held four millions of human beings as<br/>
chattels, yet made them the basis of unjust<br/>
power for themselves in federal and state go-<br/>
vernments. To maintain their enslavement it<br/>
excluded millions of free white laborers from<br/>
the richest agricultural lands of the world,<br/>
forced them to remain inactive and unproduc-<br/>
tive on the mineral, manufacturing and lum-<br/>
ber localities comprising two-thirds of the<br/>
whole South in square miles and real un-<br/>
developed wealth, simply because the localities<br/>
were agriculturally too poor for slave labor,<br/>
and condemned them to agriculture on this<br/>
unagricultural territory, and consigned them<br/>
to unwilling ignorance and poverty by deny-<br/>
ing capital and strangling enterprise. It re-<br/>
pelled the capital, energy, will, and skill of<br/>
the free states from the free labor localities<br/>
by unmitigated intolerance and proscription,<br/>
thus guarding the approaches to their slave<br/>
domain against democracy. Statute books<br/>
groaned under despotic laws against unlawful<br/>
and insurrectionary assemblies aimed at the<br/>
constitutional guaranties of the right to pea-<br/>
ceably assemble and petition for redress of<br/>
grievances. It nullified constitutional guaran-<br/>
ties of freedom and free speech and a free press.<br/>
It deprived citizens of the other states of their<br/>
privileges and immunities in the states-—an<br/>
injury and usurpation, alike unjust to northern<br/>
citizens and destructive of the best interests<br/>
of the states themselves. Alarmed at the<br/>
progress of democracy in the face of every<br/>
discouragement, at last it sought immunity<br/>
by secession and war. The heart sickens with<br/>
contemplation of the four years that followed,<br/>
forced loans, impressments,conscriptions with<br/>
bloody hands and bayonets; the number of<br/>
aged Union men who had long laid aside the<br/>
implements of labor, but who had been sum-<br/>
moned anew to the field by the conscription of<br/>
their sons to support their children and grand-<br/>
children; reduced from comfort on the verge<br/>
of starvation; the slaughter of noble youths,<br/>
types of physical manhood, forced into an<br/>
unholy war against those with whom they<br/>
were identified by every interest; long months<br/>
of incarceration in rebel bastiles; banishment<br/>
from homes and hearthstones, are but a par-<br/>
tial recital of the long catalogue of horrors.<br/>
But democrats, North and South combined,<br/>
defeated them. They lost. What did they<br/>
lose? The cause of oligarchy? They lost<br/>
African slavery by name only. Soon as the<br/>
tocsin of war ceased-—soon as the clang of<br/>
arms was hushed, they raise the cry of imme-<br/>
diate admission, and with that watchword<br/>
seek to organize under new forms a contest to<br/>
perpetuate their undrilled sway. They re-<br/>
habilitate with them sweeping control of all<br/>
local and state organizations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The federal Executive, easily seduced,<br/>
yields a willing obedience to his old mas-<br/>
ters. Aided by his unscrupulous disregard<br/>
of Constitution and laws, by his merciless<br/>
proscription of true democratic opinion,<br/>
and by all his appliances of despotic power,<br/>
they now defiantly enter the lists in the<br/>
loyal North, and seek to wring from free-<br/>
men an endorsment of their wicked designs.<br/>
Every foul agency is at work to accomplish<br/>
this result. Falsely protesting to assent<br/>
to the abolition of slavery, they are con-<br/>
triving to continue its detestable power by<br/>
legislative acts against pretended vagrants.<br/>
They know that any form of servitude will<br/>
answer their unholy purpose. They pro-<br/>
nounce the four years' war a brilliant sword<br/>
scene in the great revolutionary dramas.<br/>
Proscriptive public sentiment holds high<br/>
carnival, and profiting by the example of<br/>
the Presidential pilgrim, breathes out<br/>
threatenings of slaughter against loyalty,<br/>
ignores and denounces all legal restraints,<br/>
and assails with the tongue of malignant<br/>
slander the constitutionally chosen repre-<br/>
sentatives of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To still the voice of liberty, dangerous<br/>
alone to tyrants, midnight conflagrations,<br/>
assassinations and murders in open day are<br/>
called to their aid; a reign of terror through<br/>
all these ten states makes loyalty stand<br/>
silent in the presence of treason or whisper<br/>
in bated breath. Strong men hesitate<br/>
openly to speak for liberty and decline to<br/>
attend a convention at Philadelphia for<br/>
fear of destruction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But all southern men are not yet awed<br/>
into submission to treason, and we have<br/>
assembled from all these states determined<br/>
that liberty, when endangered, shall find<br/>
a mouthpiece, and that the government of<br/>
the people, by the people, for the people,<br/>
shall not perish from the earth. We are<br/>
here to consult together how best to pro-<br/>
vide for a Union of truly republican states,<br/>
to seek to resume thirty six stars on the<br/>
old flag.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are here to see that ten of these stars,<br/>
opaque bodies paling their ineffectual fires<br/>
beneath the gloom of darkness of oligar-<br/>
chical tyranny and oppression—we wish<br/>
them to be brilliant stars, emblems of con-<br/>
stitutional liberty, glitering orbs sparkling<br/>
with the life giving principles of the model<br/>
republic, fitting ornaments of the glorious<br/>
banner of freedom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our last and only hope is in the unity<br/>
and fortitude of the loyal people of Ame-<br/>
rica, in the support and vindication of the<br/>
Thirty-ninth Congress, and the election of<br/>
a controlling Union majority in the suc-<br/>
ceeding or Fortieth Congress. While the<br/>
new article amending the national Consti-<br/>
tution offers the most liberal conditions to<br/>
the authors of the rebellion and does not<br/>
come up to the measure of our expectations,<br/>
we believe its ratification would be the<br/>
commencement of a complete and lasting<br/>
protection to all our people ; and, there-<br/>
fore, we accept it as the best present re-<br/>
medy, and appeal to our brothers in the<br/>
North and the West to make it their watch-<br/>
word in the coming elections.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The tokens are auspicious of overwhelm-<br/>
ing success. However little the verdics of<br/>
the ballotbox many affect the reckless man<br/>
in the Presidential chair, we cannot doubt<br/>
that the traitors and sympathisers will<br/>
recognise that verdict as the surest indica-<br/>
tion that the mighty power which crushed<br/>
the rebellion is still alive, and that those<br/>
who attempt to oppose or defy it will do<br/>
so at the risk of their own destruction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}GEORGE W.PASCHAL, of Texas, Chair-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}R.O.SIDNEY, of Mississippi,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}JOHN H ATKINSON, of Western Virginia.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}JOHN H. ALDERDICE, of Delaware.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}A.W.HAWKINS, of Tennessee.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}SAMUEL KNOX, of Missouri.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}WRIGHT. R. FISH, of Louisiana.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}MILTON J.SAFFOLD, of Alabama.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}PHILLIP FRAKE, of Florida.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}D.R.GOOLOE, of North Carolina.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}D.C.FORNET, of District of Columbia,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}JOHN A.J.CRESWELL, of Maryland.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}G.W.ASHBURN, of Georgia.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Our confidence in the over ruling pro-<br/>
vidence of God prompts the predictions and<br/>
intensifies the belief that when this warn-<br/>
ing is sufficiently taught to these misguided<br/>
and reckless men, the liberated millions<br/>
of the rebellios South will be proffered<br/>
those right and franchises which may be<br/>
necessary to adjust and settle this mighty<br/>
controversy in the spirit of the most enlar-<br/>
ged and Christian philanthropy.<br/>
man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FROM THE EVENING POST.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prussia's New Position.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
FRANCE, August, 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What singular and wonderful fortune<br/>
has been that of the Prussian monarchy.<br/>
Four hundred and twenty years ago, a<br/>
petty Count of Hohenzollern, who was<br/>
Burgrave at Nuremberg, obtained, from<br/>
Sigismond, Emperor of Germany, the<br/>
Province of Brandenburg, which had<br/>
neither military nor commercial import-<br/>
ance. It was one of the most unimpor-<br/>
tant Principalities, and the heads of the<br/>
Germanic empire could never have im-<br/>
agined nor even dreamed that the inher-<br/>
itors of this insignificant territory would<br/>
ever dare dispute the supremacy of the<br/>
Hapsburg dynasty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the time of the Reformation, the<br/>
princes of Brandenburg began to acquire<br/>
more power and importance. Property<br/>
belonging to the Romish clergy was con-<br/>
fiscated, and, in consequence of larger<br/>
revenues, the civil heads were able to in-<br/>
crease the number of their soldiers. Yet<br/>
Brandenburg was still in a very inferior<br/>
rank; much below Saxony, Westphalia<br/>
and many other German Principalities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Thirty Years War the Electors<br/>
of Brandenburg joined the heroic Gusta-<br/>
vus Adolphus, but did not play an im-<br/>
portant part in the conflict. The Swedes<br/>
and Saxons were greatly superior, both<br/>
in the matter of revenue and military<br/>
strength.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is singular that the Revocation of<br/>
the Edict of Nantes was the origin of<br/>
new destiny to Prussia. Very many<br/>
French families, exiled by the brutal<br/>
despotism of Louis XIV., brought their<br/>
manufacturing arts to this country. The<br/>
Huguenots were good citizens, brave<br/>
soldiers, skillful workmen, and enriched<br/>
their new country at the expense of<br/>
France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1701 the Elector of Brandenburg<br/>
obtained the title of king, soliciting this<br/>
act of munificence from the Emperor of<br/>
Germany, to whom, as vassal, he had<br/>
rendered important service. But this new<br/>
title did not confer greater authority or<br/>
respect on Frederic First. This newly-<br/>
created king continued to be the humble<br/>
dependant of the Emperor, and could<br/>
undertake no military expedition with-<br/>
out the permission of his Suzerain chief.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia's true greatness began in the<br/>
middle of the eighteenth century, under<br/>
the reign of Frederic II. This great<br/>
captain, who was on intimate terms with<br/>
Voltaire and other philosophers of his<br/>
time, maintained, as much by his genius<br/>
as by the number of his soldiers, three<br/>
great struggles, not only against the<br/>
House of Austria, but against a great<br/>
continental coalition. He annexed Sile-<br/>
sia and a part of Poland to his hereditary<br/>
dominions. Nevertheless, at his death,<br/>
in 1786, Prussia had not over seven mil-<br/>
lions of inhabitants. But she had a well<br/>
disciplined army of 200,000 men, and<br/>
unshaken confidence in the bravery of<br/>
her battalions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is well known that the Prussians,<br/>
by turns conquerors and conquered, in<br/>
their long war against Napoleon, crown-<br/>
ed their exploits on the field of Water-<br/>
loo. The King of Prussia was rewarded<br/>
by the treaties of 1815; he obtained a<br/>
part of Saxony and other provinces,<br/>
which gave him considerable rank among<br/>
the continental potentates. But the Em-<br/>
pire of Austria preserved incontestable<br/>
supremacy in Germany, and its represen-<br/>
tative had the presidency at the Diet of<br/>
Frankfurt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a change following late events!<br/>
Austrian troops have been beaten in<br/>
every encounter, and the Prussians, af-<br/>
ter invading Bohemia, Moravia, a part of<br/>
Hungary, etc., have threatened to enter<br/>
the capital of the Emperor Francis Jo-<br/>
seph.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At this day the Prussian king, second-<br/>
ed by his Prime Minister, Count Bis-<br/>
marck, dictates conditions of peace. Be-<br/>
sides the Duchies of Schleswig-Holstein,<br/>
he gains those of Nassau and Han[over],<br/>
etc. Still more, he is at the head of the<br/>
new Confederacy and commander-in-<br/>
chief of the armies, and to him are en-<br/>
trusted diplomatic arrangements, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian monarchy will have al-<br/>
most absolute control over thirty millions<br/>
of Germans—an army of from 5 to 600,-<br/>
000 men, perfectly disciplined, financed<br/>
in a flourishing condition, an intelligent<br/>
and industrious population—in a word,<br/>
all the elements of great power and great<br/>
prosperity for the future. The Prussian<br/>
king will be the real emperor of North-<br/>
ern Germany, from the Baltic to the<br/>
Rhine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to Southern Germany, formed of<br/>
secondary states, with six millions of in-<br/>
habitants, what resistance can she offer<br/>
to Prussia's colossal preponderance? She<br/>
would be like a little planet constrained<br/>
to roll in the orbit of a star of the first<br/>
magnitude.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is certain that the interior situation<br/>
of Germany is wisely changed, and that,<br/>
consequently, the balance of power in<br/>
Europe has undergone great modifica-<br/>
tions. Will Napoleon III. accept this<br/>
new state of things without demanding<br/>
increase of territory? He has not yet<br/>
spoken his final words on this subject.<br/>
As with Russia; she will probably endea-<br/>
vor to gain something in the East to<br/>
compensate her for the dangers to which<br/>
she is exposed in the North.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Everything is uncertain at the present<br/>
time, and each State is making prepara-<br/>
tions to march to the battle-field, if<br/>
events require.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Personal Influence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Blessed influence of one true, loving,<br/>
human soul on another! Not calculable<br/>
by algebra, not deducible by logic, but<br/>
mysterious, effectual, mighty as the hid-<br/>
den process by which the tiny seed is<br/>
quickened, and bursts forth into tall stem<br/>
and broad leaf, and glowing unsoil'd<br/>
flower. Ideas are often poor ghosts ; our<br/>
sun-filled eyes cannot discern them; they<br/>
pass athwart us in thin vapor, and can-<br/>
not make themselves felt. But some-<br/>
times they are made flesh; they breathe<br/>
upon us with warm breath, they touch<br/>
us with soft responsive hands, they look<br/>
at us with sad, sincere eyes, and speak to<br/>
us in appealing tones ; they are clothed<br/>
in a living human soul, with all its faith<br/>
and its love. Then their presence is a<br/>
power, then they shake us like a passion,<br/>
and we are drawn after them with mute<br/>
compulsion, as flame is drawn into flame.<br/>
—-BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
November 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The T'achcen Canal.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The canal which is being cut from<br/>
this city to the T'achcen river, a dis-<br/>
tance of about fourteen miles has, we<br/>
learn, been excavated only two thirds<br/>
of the way—-one third being at the<br/>
eastern terminus and the other at<br/>
the western. Why is it, we beg to<br/>
ask, has that work progressed so slow-<br/>
ly! Nearly a year ago, we were in-<br/>
formed by persons in whose judgment<br/>
we could confide, that it would be<br/>
finished in four or five months from<br/>
that time. Has the Siamo-Chinese<br/>
nobleman, to whom the government<br/>
gave the contract, become straitened<br/>
for the want of funds to complete it?<br/>
If we have been correctly informed,<br/>
he promised government that he would<br/>
make the canal and a carriage road<br/>
on one of its banks for the privilege<br/>
of establishing two Hue-lotteries on<br/>
the T'achcen river—-one at Nakawn<br/>
cheisee, and the other in the town of<br/>
T'achcen, with the exclusive right of<br/>
using them for a period of three years.<br/>
Another mode allowed him by gov-<br/>
ernment for remunerating himself for<br/>
the work instead of the hui lotteries,<br/>
was, as we learn, a license to take a<br/>
certain amount of tolls on all boats<br/>
that shall pass in the canal for the<br/>
period of ten years, and a tax of one<br/>
salung per rei on all paddy fields<br/>
within fifteen sens—equal to 300 Siamese<br/>
fathoms from the canal on either side<br/>
for the same time. By a circular<br/>
which the contractor issued July 1865,<br/>
it would appear that he then submit-<br/>
ted the two modes for the opinion of<br/>
all readers of the paper, requesting<br/>
each one, to send to him within twelve<br/>
days, "in few words," showing<br/>
which of the two plans he would pre-<br/>
fer to have taken in collecting money<br/>
to pay for the canal. We have never<br/>
heard any official report of that novel<br/>
election. We presume that the con-<br/>
tractor did not collect more than fifty<br/>
ballots altogether, and doubt whether<br/>
he got more than half that number.<br/>
But it has been currently reported,<br/>
that the election showed the minds of<br/>
the people to be in favor of the lot-<br/>
tery-plan; and the reason given is<br/>
that it will compel no one to pay<br/>
any tax for the privileges of the canal,<br/>
since all who may venture to try their<br/>
fortunes at the lotteries will do so<br/>
simply because they love to gamble.<br/>
It is said, too, that the contractor was<br/>
well pleased with this view of the<br/>
matter, as it will be a much shorter<br/>
process of the two, will be attended<br/>
with much less trouble to himself, and<br/>
will be equally if not more remunera-<br/>
tive than the other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From such reports we have been<br/>
led to think that two lotteries were<br/>
soon to be established on the Ta'cheen<br/>
River-—that the canal contractor<br/>
would do all in his power of course to<br/>
induce all the people in that thrifty<br/>
province to try their fortunes at the<br/>
game—-thus increasing the curse of<br/>
gambling in that section fifty fold—-<br/>
intoxicating all the people with it, and<br/>
keeping them crazed from day to day<br/>
and month to month, to the ruin of<br/>
their business, their estates, and their<br/>
families. It seemed to us like a license<br/>
of the government to the contractor<br/>
to humbug the people by mere visions<br/>
of coming affluence, and then in their<br/>
dreams to take their money from them.<br/>
Or like giving him liberty to conjure<br/>
legions of evil spirits to his aid in de-<br/>
ceiving them, so that he could take<br/>
their money without compensation,<br/>
and that, too, by the dignity and ma-<br/>
jesty of law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such a sad picture of that matter<br/>
have we had before us for months<br/>
even until after commencing the writ-<br/>
ing of this article. But now we are<br/>
exceedingly glad to learn from a no-<br/>
bleman in whom we can place confi-<br/>
dence, that the Siamese government<br/>
has decided, that no lotteries shall be<br/>
established on Ta’cheen River. and<br/>
no where else for collecting funds for<br/>
paying the expenses of that canal, and<br/>
that the plan of taking tolls and tax-<br/>
ing the paddy fields on its border<br/>
shall be adopted. If this is true,<br/>
which we fondly hope it is, then we have<br/>
another pleasing evidence that Young<br/>
Siam is still on the march of improve-<br/>
ment. We fervently hope and pray<br/>
that she will not slacken her progress,<br/>
but rather increase it until gambling<br/>
of all kinds (to speak now of no other<br/>
evil) shall be placed where it should<br/>
be in the same category with thieving.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
and robbing, and forbidden by penal-<br/>
ties which will stay the curse from des-<br/>
olating the whole land as it now does.<br/>
The gambling farms now in operation<br/>
every where are clothed with honor<br/>
and power by the government; and<br/>
the grand excuse of the government<br/>
for legalizing them is, that the people<br/>
are so much in love of gambling that<br/>
no laws can keep them from it, and<br/>
that it is far better that the govern-<br/>
ment should systematize it,—confim-<br/>
ing it within certain localities, and get<br/>
a revenue from it, than that it should<br/>
start up in every house without re-<br/>
straint and pay only the winners.<br/>
Preposterous reasoning! The govern-<br/>
ment not strong enough to check this<br/>
evil! Then it is the weakest that has<br/>
ever been known. As well might it<br/>
be said that government is not strong<br/>
enough to check theiving and robbing!<br/>
But it is said, let the government get<br/>
a little stronger before it undertake it,<br/>
and then it will make a thorough<br/>
work of it. How long pray, will it<br/>
require for government to become<br/>
strong enough for checking gambling<br/>
while it is by this means continually<br/>
sowing discord and poverty and crime<br/>
in the land!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Islands No. 6.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The good Regent KAAHUMANA,<br/>
seeing the efforts which the Roman<br/>
Catholies were making to subvert the<br/>
good work which had been begun by<br/>
the Protestant missionaries, and the<br/>
outrages that were being committed<br/>
at Lahaina and Honolulu by foreign<br/>
seamen, aided even by an officer of<br/>
the U. S. Navy, to break down the<br/>
new laws of chastity which had been<br/>
made, wrote a letter to the A. B. C.<br/>
F. M. requesting them to send over<br/>
more teachers. She addressed the<br/>
Board as "friends and kindred," saying<br/>
"I wish you to send hither more teach-<br/>
ers to increase the light of Jesus<br/>
Christ, for great has been the kind-<br/>
ness of God towards the people of<br/>
dark hearts." Her short prayer met<br/>
with a quick response, and she had<br/>
the great gratification of welcoming<br/>
the second reinforcement of the mis-<br/>
sion March 31st 1828. It consisted<br/>
of 4 ordained missionaries, 1 physici-<br/>
an, 1 printer, with their wives, and 4<br/>
unmarried ladies, teachers. Their<br/>
names were Lorrin Andrews, Jonath-<br/>
an S. Green, Peter Gulick, Ephraim<br/>
W. Clark, Gerrit P. Judd, Stephen<br/>
Shepard, Miss Maria C. Ogden, Miss.<br/>
Delia Stone, Miss Mary Ward, and<br/>
Miss Maria Patten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So loud and urgent was the call<br/>
for still more help, and so important<br/>
did the Am. Board regard the work,<br/>
that they sent out a 3d reinforcement<br/>
in 1831, which consisted of 3 or-<br/>
dained missionaries, and 1 assistant<br/>
for secular affairs, with their wives.<br/>
Their names were Dwight Baldwin,<br/>
Reuben Tinker, Sheldon Dibble, and<br/>
Andrew Johnstone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 4th arrived in 1832, and com-<br/>
prised 8 ordained missionaries,1 physi-<br/>
cian, and 1 printer, together with<br/>
their wives. Their names were John<br/>
S. Emerson, David B. Lyman, Eph-<br/>
raim Spalding, William P. Alexander,<br/>
Richard Armstrong, Cochran Forbes,<br/>
Harvey R. Hitchcock, Lorenzo Lyons,<br/>
Alonzo Chapin,and Edmund R. Rogers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 5th arrived in 1833, compris-<br/>
ing 2 ordained missionaries, and 1<br/>
printer with their wives, namely,<br/>
Benjamin W. Parker, Lowell Smith<br/>
and Lemuel Fuller.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 6th reinforcement arrived in<br/>
1835, having 1 ordained mission-<br/>
ary, 1 bookbinder, and 1 printer,<br/>
with their wives, together with 2 un-<br/>
married ladies, as teachers. Their<br/>
names were Titus Coan, Henry Di-<br/>
mond, Edwin O. Hall, Miss Lydia<br/>
Brown, and Miss Elizabeth M. Hitch-<br/>
cock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 7th arrived in 1837 consis-<br/>
ting of 4 ordained missionaries, 1<br/>
physician, 1 secular superintendent,<br/>
9 teachers and their wives, together<br/>
with 2 unmarried ladies as teachers.<br/>
Their names were Isaac Bliss, Daniel<br/>
T. Conde, Mark Ives, Thomas La-<br/>
four, M. D. Seth L. Andrews M. D.<br/>
Samuel N. Castle, Edward Daily,<br/>
Amos S. Cooke, Edward Johnson,<br/>
Horton O. Knapp, Edwin Locke,<br/>
Charles McDonald, Bethuel Munn,<br/>
William S. Van Duzee, Abner Wil-<br/>
cox, Miss Marcia M. Smith, and Miss<br/>
Lucia G. Smith.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 8th arrived in 1841 and was<br/>
composed of 3 ordained missionaries,<br/>
1 teacher, and their wives, namely<br/>
Elias Bond, Daniel Dole, John P.<br/>
Faris, William H. Rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The 9th arrived in 1842, and had<br/>
2 ordained missionaries and their<br/>
wives, namely George B. Rowell and<br/>
James W. Smith M. D.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 10th arrived in 1844 composed<br/>
of 4 ordained missionaries, all having<br/>
wives but one. Their names were<br/>
Claudius B. Andrews, Timothy<br/>
Dwight Hunt, Eliphalet Whittlesy<br/>
and John Pogue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 11th arriving in 1848 had<br/>
2 ordained missionaries, namely<br/>
Samuel G. Dwight, Henry Kinney,<br/>
and Mrs. Kinney.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 12th arrived in 1849 having<br/>
only man and his wife, a Physician<br/>
whose name was Charles H. Wetmore<br/>
M. D.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last reinforcement was sent<br/>
out in 1854 and had only 1 ordained<br/>
missionary and his wife. His name<br/>
was William C. Shipman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole number of clerical<br/>
missionaries sent to the Islands since<br/>
1819 is forty. Besides these, several<br/>
sons of those missionaries, educated<br/>
in the U. S. have returned to the<br/>
Islands as missionaries. There have<br/>
also been six physicians, twenty lay-<br/>
men as teachers, printers etc, and<br/>
eighty three females, all but three of<br/>
them wives of missionaries, and as-<br/>
sistant missionaries. The term of<br/>
missionary labor on the Islands,<br/>
with the clerical members of the<br/>
Mission, averages about twenty one<br/>
years. One of them has been there<br/>
forty four years; four, thirty six years;<br/>
one, thirty three years, four, thirty-<br/>
two, and two, thirty-one, years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We copy the following statistical<br/>
history of the Hawaiin Churches from<br/>
Dr. Anderson's book.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first native convert admitted to<br/>
the church was Koopaolani in 1823<br/>
* * * Up to the year 1832, and<br/>
including that year, the whole num-<br/>
ber of members received was 577.<br/>
The admissions in the next ten years<br/>
were 29,651. Of these 19,877 were<br/>
received in the years 1838-–1840; 2243<br/>
in 1842; and 5,396 in 1843,—indica-<br/>
ting the years of the great awakening.<br/>
The average number of each of the ten<br/>
years is nearly 3,000. The admissions<br/>
in the next ten years were 12,325, or<br/>
an annual average of 1,232. In the<br/>
next ten, the number received was<br/>
8,802, giving an annual average of 880<br/>
new members. The whole number<br/>
from the beginning is 50,913, or an<br/>
average for each year (of the 40 years<br/>
since the first admission) of more than<br/>
a thousand. To this an addition of<br/>
1,500 for the Protestant evangelical<br/>
churches of Makawao, in East Maui,<br/>
connected with the American Mission-<br/>
ary Association, which would swell the<br/>
sum total to 52,413. The excommu-<br/>
nications in this period of forty years,<br/>
not including the churches of Makawao,<br/>
were not far from 8000." * * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“The accessions to the Roman<br/>
Catholic community, especially in for-<br/>
mer years, are understood to have been<br/>
largely from the excommunicated<br/>
Protestant church-members.”<br/>
The gospel as preached by the Pro-<br/>
testaut missionaries by the power of<br/>
the Almighty Spirit at first took a<br/>
strong hold of many of the principal<br/>
chiefs, by whom the government was<br/>
early converted to a decidedly chris-<br/>
tian character. Many of these chiefs<br/>
were burning and shining lights to their<br/>
people. Among them, Kaahumani and<br/>
Kapiolani were the most remarkable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kalanimoka, whom the natives call-<br/>
ed "the Iron Cable of their country"<br/>
was among the early converts. He had<br/>
been a great warrior, and became still<br/>
more illustrious as a christian. "Lu<br/>
him the heathen warrior was seen<br/>
transformed into the peaceful, joyous<br/>
christian." "The world" he said, as<br/>
he drew near death "is full of sorrow,<br/>
but in heaven there is no sorrow nor<br/>
pain—it is good, it is bright, it is hap-<br/>
py." He died of dropsy Feb. 8th 1827.<br/>
His death was deeply felt by the re-<br/>
gent Kaahumanu, as she had made<br/>
hun her right hand counselor a long<br/>
time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Adams Kuakini, governor of Ha-<br/>
waii was admitted to church fellow-<br/>
ship in 1827, and prince Kekuanaoa<br/>
and princess Kinau his wife were ad-<br/>
mitted early the next year. Kinau<br/>
was a daughter of Kamehameha I.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The illustrious Kaahumanu died June<br/>
5th, 1832 being fifty eight years of<br/>
age. "She possessed great native<br/>
strength of character, which was en-<br/>
riched and adorned by grace. From<br/>
being selfish, proud, haughty, and op-<br/>
pressive, she became the humble and<br/>
kind mother of her people. So great<br/>
was the change in her, that, on visi-<br/>
ting Hawaii, the natives called her<br/>
"the new Kaahumanu." * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
" Kinen was appointed to succeed her<br/>
as regent, and the young king, assum-<br/>
ing his sovereignty in the spring of<br/>
1833, made her premier. She was a<br/>
wise and good counselor. When cer-<br/>
tain irreligious chiefs, besought the<br/>
youthful monarch to oppose the new<br/>
religion, his reply was. "The king-<br/>
dom of God is strong."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king commenced<br/>
his annual visitations of the royal<br/>
temples in this city on Friday the<br/>
16th inst and has been every day al-<br/>
most exclusively occupied with it.<br/>
He has visited usually three temples<br/>
a day and sometimes four.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Friday the first day, it is said<br/>
that he was arrayed in his richest<br/>
state costume, attended by all the<br/>
insignia of royalty, and being borne<br/>
in his golden sedan followed by a<br/>
large and imposing retinue, he pro-<br/>
ceeded to Wat P'rachetoo p'on, Wat<br/>
Rajah Boonnah and Wat Soot'at.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday His Majesty was car-<br/>
ried in a less imposing style, yet with<br/>
an august train on a royal sedan to<br/>
Wat Chakrawat, Wat Samp'ant'a-<br/>
woug, and Wat P'atoom Koughk'a.<br/>
In going to the last named temple<br/>
His Majesty passed through the great<br/>
Bazar, which had been stripped of all<br/>
the temporary sheds and market<br/>
stalls in front of the brick buildings<br/>
which greatly cramp the street, and<br/>
the whole extent of it was swept<br/>
and garnished and enlarged so that<br/>
one had to reflect a good deal before<br/>
he could bring his mind to believe<br/>
that it was the old Bazar street.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Sunday His Majesty appeared<br/>
in one of his best royal estates on<br/>
the river, visiting Wat Rak'ang,<br/>
Wat Aroonarataraim, and Wat Hong<br/>
Saram.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Monday he worshipped and dis-<br/>
tributed priest's robes in Wat Somlit-<br/>
tiatweehan, Wat Bawraniwat and Wat<br/>
Maha Trit'aram being conveyed to<br/>
them in a royal barge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Tuesday His Majesty again pass-<br/>
ed into canal Bangkok-yâi and visited<br/>
Wat Nâng, Wat Naug-nawng, Wat<br/>
Rajah-orot and Wat Rajah-sit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Wednesday he visited the tem-<br/>
ples of the late Somdetch Ong-yur,<br/>
and Somdetch Ong-yâi and one or two<br/>
others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And to-day His Majesty has bowed<br/>
down to the idol in Wat Kalayâ-<br/>
nemit in front of our two temples at Bangkok.<br/>
learn, that he is going to make an un-<br/>
usually short work of these visitations<br/>
in the city this year, determining to<br/>
close it up in two days more, which<br/>
will make nine days since he commenc-<br/>
ed it. But he will deputize, we un-<br/>
derstand, some one or more of the<br/>
princehood to distribute priests robes<br/>
in his name in other royal temples in<br/>
and about the city. We hear that H.<br/>
E. Chow Phaya Kalahome is soon to<br/>
leave on this business to the royal<br/>
temples in the old city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These royal processions on the riv-<br/>
er, numbering from one hundred to<br/>
one hundred and fifty of the finest<br/>
state barges passing up and down the<br/>
Menam, are very imposing. The roy-<br/>
al seat rua pratinany is not far from<br/>
200 feet long and six feet wide in the<br/>
middle, having a very tasty and<br/>
rich canopy, elegantly draped. It is<br/>
propelled by 70 or 80 paddlers.<br/>
The barge carrying the priests robes<br/>
immediately following, is about the<br/>
same size and nearly as grand. This<br/>
is called rua pratinany rawng—-the<br/>
auxillary royal seat boat. The royal<br/>
guard barges, numbering from 40 to<br/>
60 are of the same general form, and<br/>
but a little smaller than the royal seat.<br/>
The barges of the many princes and<br/>
principal chiefs who follow the king<br/>
in these processions are all essentially<br/>
of the same form as that of the king's<br/>
barge, and are fully manned, each with<br/>
from 40 to 50 paddlers—-all of each<br/>
boat being in some kind of uniform<br/>
with one another, but not so necessa-<br/>
rily with that of any other boat in the<br/>
procession. Many of the crews wore<br/>
white jackets—-some red—-some of ca-<br/>
lico print—and some wore no garment<br/>
above the waist.—-Some had fillets on<br/>
their foreheads, some turbans of yellow<br/>
red or white, and some had nothing<br/>
at all on their heads. The men in<br/>
many of the guard boats wore shirts<br/>
apparently made in some preceding<br/>
generation, and great leathern hats<br/>
equally old. The object of their dis-<br/>
play, was, we suppose, to keep up a<br/>
lively remembrance of Old Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We noticed our Harbor Master and<br/>
Master Attendant, attending His Ma-<br/>
jesty in these processions, riding in a<br/>
regular Siamese state barge, arrayed<br/>
like an English Admiral in his high-<br/>
est official costume.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The royal brass band, playing Euro-<br/>
pean airs while the processions are<br/>
passing on the river and canals, and<br/>
when His Majesty lands at a temple<br/>
or departs from it, is to us the only<br/>
really pleasant and animating thing we<br/>
see or hear in all this august display.<br/>
But we failed to notice any improve-<br/>
ment in the performances of the band<br/>
from year to year as they appear in<br/>
these processions. The fault may be<br/>
partly owing to our own peculiar taste<br/>
for music. Having a skillful European<br/>
Master, the band should show some-<br/>
thing extra on these extraordinary<br/>
occasions
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now to what purpose is all this ado<br/>
—this great expense of time and mon-<br/>
ey every year? It is to sustain and<br/>
honor the king in his extraordinary<br/>
efforts to prop up Buddhistical idola-<br/>
try as long as the power and authority<br/>
of Siamese kings can make it stand.<br/>
But the most enlightened of the thou-<br/>
sands who follow the king in these<br/>
processions, and thus appear to adhere<br/>
still firmly to Buddhism, have, we<br/>
think, made up their minds that the<br/>
system is a great humbug, and des-<br/>
tined to flee from before the light of<br/>
the gospel ere long, as the night flees<br/>
from before the sun. Others think<br/>
this a period in the existence of Budd-<br/>
hism when it must necessarily, accor-<br/>
ding to the eternal course of nature,<br/>
decline until it shall become appa-<br/>
rently extinct in all the universe. But<br/>
then there is to be a period, billions of<br/>
ages in the eternity to come, when it<br/>
will be resurrected; and hence they<br/>
seem to infer that there is peculiar<br/>
merit in honoring and sustaining it to<br/>
its last breath, and then to aid in giv-<br/>
ing it the most honorable burial.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Since our leading article was put in<br/>
type, we have been credibly informed,<br/>
that the canal to T'achorn is now pro-<br/>
gressing rapidly, that there only re-<br/>
mains 40 sens, equal to about one<br/>
mile to be excavated, and that it will<br/>
be done within another month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But we are made sorrowful by learn-<br/>
ing that the land on either side of the<br/>
canal through its whole extent, which<br/>
belonged to government, has been taken<br/>
up by nobles and lords, so that the poor-<br/>
er classes are quite excluded from ever<br/>
becoming owners of any of it We had<br/>
fondly hoped that the common working<br/>
classes would have been allowed to<br/>
squat on much of that tract of laud,<br/>
and to hold it as their own in consi-<br/>
deration of the annual payment of the<br/>
usual taxes on paddy fields But no.<br/>
A capital chance for speculation is be-<br/>
ing opened by the canal, and monied<br/>
men have been allowed to close the<br/>
door against any poor man having any<br/>
share in it, excepting such as are slaves<br/>
to them, or beco e their hired ser-<br/>
vants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And we furthermore learn, that<br/>
those nobles and lords have it in their<br/>
power to dispose as they please of the<br/>
hopes of having a carriage road on one<br/>
of the banks of the canal, that the<br/>
king is not going to insist upon carry-<br/>
ing out that original plan, and that<br/>
consequently it will in all probability<br/>
fall through.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Those powerful lords find that it<br/>
will be very profitable to have fre-<br/>
quent openings or ditches from the<br/>
canal into their paddy fields, which it<br/>
would be troublesome and expensive<br/>
to keep well bridged over for a car-<br/>
riage road, and such a road would<br/>
make it necessary for them to build<br/>
fences between it and their rice fields.<br/>
For such reasons, they seem not to<br/>
wish for any public road, the canal be-<br/>
ing all the thoroughfare they need for<br/>
their business.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And we learn that, even now, they<br/>
have made a multitude of these<br/>
ditches, which have been a great em-<br/>
barrassment to the work of making<br/>
the canal, as the powerful rains have<br/>
sent the water in floods into the ca-<br/>
nal, carrying away the banks, and fil-<br/>
ling up the channel with mud. It is<br/>
reported also that no one is empow-<br/>
ered with sufficient authority to for-<br/>
bid this conduct of the lords, and that<br/>
the consequence is, that there is likely<br/>
to be scarcely a comfortable foot path<br/>
on either bank.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope and trust that it is not<br/>
true, as reported, that the king is get-<br/>
ting slack in his old age, and that<br/>
hence that projected new road is<br/>
well as many other anticipated im
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
provements, into come to sought. We<br/>
hope His Majesty will show that he<br/>
is still able to govern well his king-<br/>
dom, and still determined that he<br/>
will have that road made and many<br/>
others where most needed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we failed to obtain a regular re-<br/>
port of the arrival of the last Chow<br/>
Phya, we consequently failed to learn<br/>
who came as passengers by her, and<br/>
wholly forgot to enquire until the pa-<br/>
per was struck off. We would now<br/>
report that G. W. Virgin Esqr. return-<br/>
ed from Singapore on the 6th inst.,<br/>
and we are glad to learn that he ap-<br/>
pears to be much improved in health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam steamer Chow Phya left<br/>
the bar on the 12th inst. at 9 A. M. for<br/>
Singapore. Messrs Harvey, Black<br/>
and Paine went passengers in her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The shipping in port is gradually<br/>
increasing and we may expect soon to<br/>
see quite a fleet in the river. There<br/>
is now 53 vessels in the harbor, con-<br/>
sisting of 8 British, 3 American, 4<br/>
Hamburg, 3 Prussian, 3 Dutch, and 30<br/>
Siamese vessels. Tonnage, British<br/>
2332, American 1973, Hamburg 1520,<br/>
Prussian 903, Dutch 1285, Siamese<br/>
8088. Total 16,100.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Daniel Winsor Esq. Secretary to<br/>
H. E. Chow Phya Praklang appoin-<br/>
ted by His Majesty as the bearer of<br/>
Siamese curiosities to the great Pari-<br/>
sian Exhibition, took his departure by<br/>
the last Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that the king has<br/>
sent a great variety of things which<br/>
cannot but be regarded as very curi-<br/>
ous, in Europe and we know that he<br/>
would confer a great favor upon all<br/>
our readers, by allowing us to publish<br/>
a list of them. We would hereby hum-<br/>
bly beg His Majesty to do so.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">—</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">46</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">54</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">63</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">25¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Naasau</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Nameang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">80</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEEL SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">106</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO</td>
 <td>HIDES</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td>Black</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">170</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">31</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">67</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korst</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>""" 12"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">860</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>NAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4@5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6@7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8@9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUX KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">855</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">835</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">815</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">810</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH</td>
 <td>Pisheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaalit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">900</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—On Hong Kong 30 d. s. at<br/>
par. On Singapore 10 d. s. 5 p. c. pre-<br/>
mium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TONNAGE—Small vessels are wanted<br/>
for Rice to Hong Kong. We report the<br/>
following charters since the 25th ulto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Cutty Sark," 47½ cents per picul<br/>
to Hong Kong, 30 cents additional to<br/>
Ningpo, and if to Ningpo direct, 70 cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Electra" 60 cents P pic. to Ningpo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Abbotsford" 60 " "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Lark" " 60 " "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Madusa" " 60 " "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"LyeBoMoon" 40 " Hong Kong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Hong-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kong since 24th ulto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Martin" with 11871<br/>
piculs rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dutch bark "Japara" with 18067<br/>
piculs rice, 99 sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Emeralda" with 7500<br/>
piculs rice, 150 sapanwood, 500 green<br/>
peas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "St Mary" with 69 piculs<br/>
cardamums, 325 hides, 5070 rice, 1967<br/>
paddy, 11 1/2 deer horns, 145 rosewood, 1 1/2<br/>
bean cakes, 26 hemp, 218 cotton, 18<br/>
teak planks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British ship "Electra" to Ningpo with<br/>
499 piculs pepper, 14664 rice, 67 sapan-<br/>
wood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner "Water Lily" for<br/>
Bombay, with 3375 piculs sugar, 1 silk,<br/>
58 teak planks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer "Chow Phya" with 73<br/>
piculs benjamin, 3571 rice, 55 sticklac,<br/>
263 peas, 276 salt, 270 saltfish, 3 1/2 ivory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "John & Mary" with<br/>
2562 piculs rice, 124 sapanwood, 164<br/>
sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "August" with 176 piculs<br/>
hides, 8313 rice, 53 sapanwood, 95 peas,<br/>
47 saltfish, 99 teak planks.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE WEATHER for the last week<br/>
has been delightful. "The rain is<br/>
over and gone," the air cool and invigo-<br/>
rating, the sky much of the time cloud-<br/>
less, the moon light evenings the<br/>
brightest possible, and the coming har-<br/>
vest was never before excelled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Queen Emma of the Sandwich Is-<br/>
lands left New York for San Francisco<br/>
the 1st of Sept. hastening home on<br/>
account of hearing of the death of her<br/>
mother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The British Association for the ad-<br/>
vancement of science has predicted an<br/>
extraordinary shower of meteors to<br/>
fall ou the night of the 18th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would call special attention to<br/>
the address of the Southern Loyalists'<br/>
Convention at Philadelphia held on<br/>
the 2d of September last, which we<br/>
have copied on the first page of this<br/>
issue. It was a unanimous expression<br/>
of the views of all the delegates. It<br/>
strikes us that it contains a fearful<br/>
amount of stubborn and solemn facts,<br/>
and far more than corroborates the<br/>
views which we have occasionally set<br/>
forth in our columns, concerning Pre-<br/>
sident Johnson's plan of reconstruction,<br/>
and his great departure from the<br/>
many pledges he gave at the begin-<br/>
ning of his administration. It is just<br/>
now, unquestionably, one of the most<br/>
trying times in the States which its<br/>
friends have ever experienced. But<br/>
we still have the liveliest hope in God,<br/>
that he will cause even this to work<br/>
together for the speedy good of that<br/>
great Republic.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAWN KLAU
CHAPTER XII.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government as it has been ad-<br/>
ministered in Siam has afforded little<br/>
inducement to enterprise or little stimu-<br/>
lus to progress, and it has afforded the<br/>
greatest obstacles to the introduction<br/>
of purer morals and a holier religion.<br/>
The whole system has been at antipod-<br/>
es with the first law of good govern-<br/>
ment, love thy neighbor and fear to do<br/>
him wrong. And though we are sure<br/>
that reform has been instituted, its<br/>
development will be slow, almost im-<br/>
perceptible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The most disheartening feature in<br/>
the government is, that instead of af-<br/>
fording protection and stimulus to<br/>
progress, the legitimate object of law,<br/>
the people every where meet op-<br/>
pression, fraud, and intrigue from those<br/>
who ought to protect and deal justly<br/>
and uprightly, become reckless in<br/>
meeting the demands of law, and resort<br/>
to every variety of evasion. Taxes,<br/>
sometimes remain unpaid for years.<br/>
When the culprit is eventually caught<br/>
and compelled to settle the demands<br/>
against him, he has nothing to pay,<br/>
and hence debts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A debt for taxes unpaid is always<br/>
considered an unjust demand, to be<br/>
evaded if possible. Indeed a Siamese<br/>
always seems to feel that all money<br/>
which goes to pay a debt is sheer loss,<br/>
and all obtained on credit pure gain.<br/>
And the shuffling to escape an honest<br/>
due, makes the debt and credit sys-<br/>
tem very precarious, and interest, as<br/>
a natural consequence astounding,<br/>
doubling the principal in two years and<br/>
eight months by law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the original debt is once<br/>
doubled interest ceases. The creditor<br/>
then demands his money, and if the<br/>
debtor cannot pay he must be a ser-<br/>
vant for security, and work without<br/>
remuneration till such time as he shall<br/>
meet the full demand. He now has a<br/>
large debt with no means to liquidate<br/>
it, unless he has a wife and children<br/>
to sell and meet the demand, making<br/>
themselves for debt, till the demands<br/>
are all cancelled from other sources.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
gives his family as slaves for the bor-<br/>
rowed money, the interest will go on<br/>
accumulating again, unless his family<br/>
work and let their services keep down<br/>
the interest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
According to the usages of the coun-<br/>
try the services of debtors, or their<br/>
family, only meet the interest even in<br/>
small demands. There is no arrange-<br/>
ment gradually to pay the debt. It is<br/>
a very disheartening usage, and no<br/>
wonder the poor people loose all their<br/>
enterprise, and live from hand to<br/>
mouth, blessing the moment that they<br/>
can secure a penny to treat themselves<br/>
to a present luxury.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pay and perquisites obtained<br/>
in all classes and conditions and all<br/>
kinds of service is small. Officials get<br/>
small salaries and make it up in bribes.<br/>
The farmers of revenue find various<br/>
ways to fill their own pockets, the<br/>
destruction of the people follow-<br/>
ing as a consequence notwithstand-<br/>
ing. Servants are suffered to appro-<br/>
priate a certain percentage, and allow-<br/>
ance made for it in rewarding service.<br/>
A head workman is paid by those<br/>
under him for securing a place for<br/>
them, or for securing their merchan-<br/>
dize, and the victims of the overseer<br/>
make up the deficit by cheating the<br/>
master.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A good man might give a servant<br/>
greater pay to induce him to give up<br/>
his perquisites, but the servant would<br/>
be sure that greater pay implied greater<br/>
service, and feel himself entitled to<br/>
greater perquisites in proportion.<br/>
Should the employer rail against the<br/>
usages of the country, and teach that<br/>
he would insist on a more equitable<br/>
arrangement, and give as a reason his<br/>
disinterested benevolence; the servant<br/>
would be very slow to believe. For the<br/>
greatest acts of benevolence, in Siam,<br/>
are more to accumulate merit to the<br/>
giver than to do good to the receiver.<br/>
Disinterested benevolence is quite out<br/>
of the question, and gratitude need<br/>
not have a place in the language, for<br/>
there is no use for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But there is nothing that so excites<br/>
my indignation as the regular legaliz-<br/>
ed methods of demoralizing children.<br/>
As I have been writing this article a<br/>
case has occured in point. A little boy<br/>
came to us from down the coast of the<br/>
Gulf. He was out to play and went<br/>
to the new road to view the wonders.<br/>
He had been gone a few minutes when<br/>
he came running to us wanting to bor-<br/>
row four pennies. Why! what do you<br/>
want to do? we cautiously asked. Oh I<br/>
saw them gambling in the street "right<br/>
out here" and staked and lost four<br/>
pennies and the man has taken my<br/>
waistcloth and I want to redeem it.<br/>
Redeem it! we indignantly exclaimed,<br/>
and went to demand the cloth. But,<br/>
argued the man, we pay the king for<br/>
the privilege. Yes for the privilege<br/>
of ruining our little boys! Shall we<br/>
love the Siamese children better than<br/>
their own king? God forbid that it<br/>
should long be thus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam is a little country it is true.<br/>
So was England, and England was<br/>
once in the sisterhood of nations as in-<br/>
considerate as Siam is now. This was<br/>
when the nation sacrificed to false gods.<br/>
A purer religion and laws based on the<br/>
teachings of this religion have raised<br/>
them from their degralation and given<br/>
them a great name among the nations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There should be efficient, thorough<br/>
administration of government—the<br/>
good of the people sought in all clas-<br/>
ses and conditions, and the people<br/>
taught to appreciate law, and be ready<br/>
to pay liberaly to have it thoroughly<br/>
executed. Punishment for crime<br/>
ought to be so administered as to save<br/>
the culprit, and yet be a preventive to<br/>
the commission of crime. Offenders<br/>
should be vigilantly hunted out, and<br/>
judiciously and efficiently treated that<br/>
there may be no inducement to sin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How is punishment administered in<br/>
Siam? A thief is very sure to escape<br/>
justice if he shelters himself under the<br/>
shadow of some powerful man, and<br/>
divides with him literaly his goods.<br/>
It is quite impossible to detect a thief.<br/>
Yet in western countries the most<br/>
covert sins meet perfectly certain de-<br/>
velopements. They bring to bear every<br/>
variety of detectives. It is seemingly<br/>
impossible to escape the police.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A vigilantly executed government<br/>
removes all inducements to crime, as<br/>
the most improved fire-arms remove<br/>
inducements to war and blood shed.<br/>
It is hope of escape, it is chances of<br/>
success which give stimulus to wicked<br/>
thoughts and wicked passions, and de-<br/>
luge the world with actions that must<br/>
make infinite holiness repent that he<br/>
made men, and lead to terrible retri-<br/>
butive justice. Hence those that fear<br/>
God, fear to do evil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr Editor.-—I would like to make<br/>
the inquiry through your paper when<br/>
we are to have a Post Office in Bang-<br/>
kok! Is there another city here in the<br/>
East where there is as much business<br/>
done as in Bangkok that has not a<br/>
Post Office? Certainly there is not.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The way that mail matter is now<br/>
distributed in this city may be the best<br/>
under the circumstances, although not<br/>
satisfactory to all, yet it is certainly a<br/>
great tax upon the time and patience<br/>
of those in the Consulate where it is<br/>
done. The establishment of a P. O.<br/>
would relieve them as well as insure<br/>
greater safety and certainty in the de-<br/>
livery of all mail matter for this place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that a mail steamer,<br/>
which is soon to commence running<br/>
from Singapore to Saigon, will occa-<br/>
sionally touch at Bangkok. Now why<br/>
cannot arrangements be made to have<br/>
this place included in that route, and<br/>
a Post Office established here for the<br/>
better and more satisfactory delivery<br/>
of the mails? This is certainly a matter<br/>
that demands immediate attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some months ago the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment, much to their praise, pro-<br/>
posed to take the initiatory steps to<br/>
establish a postal line between Singa-<br/>
pore and Bangkok, the capital of their<br/>
country, with a Post Office at the lat-<br/>
ter place, and applied to Her Britannic<br/>
Majesty’s Consul here for counsel and<br/>
encouragement. But strange to say,<br/>
and much to the disappointment of<br/>
many here, he discouraged the pro-<br/>
posal, and the consequence was, the<br/>
project was abandoned. He, above all<br/>
others, it was thought, would have<br/>
given it his hearty consent and co-oper-<br/>
ation. If this is an index of his pub-<br/>
lic spirit of progress and improve-<br/>
ment, is he a fit representative of the<br/>
English nation ever marching onward<br/>
to improvement?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would naturally be supposed that<br/>
those coming here from western na-<br/>
tions, and especially the representatives<br/>
of treaty powers, who ought to have<br/>
most influence with the Siamese Gov-<br/>
ernment would be wide awake to the<br/>
introduction into this country of all<br/>
improvements calculated to benefit<br/>
themselves as well as the nation where<br/>
they reside. The Siamese are sadly in<br/>
want of a good postal system through-<br/>
out their own country. They have<br/>
now no other means of sending com-<br/>
munications to any of their provinces<br/>
than dispatching a special messenger<br/>
for that purpose. They seem to have<br/>
no idea of the benefits of a good postal<br/>
system.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have no doubt but that the Siam-<br/>
ese Government will still favor the<br/>
project, and try to do all they can<br/>
towards the introduction of so great an<br/>
improvement into their country, but<br/>
they must have the co-operation and<br/>
encouragement of the treaty powers<br/>
here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I simply make these inquiries, and<br/>
throw out these hints in order to<br/>
direct the attention of those most in-<br/>
terested to this important matter, and<br/>
hope that the spirit will again be revi-<br/>
ved, and something permanently and<br/>
satisfactorily accomplished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
INQUIRER.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th November.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chinese Litofature.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The date of the invention of paper seems<br/>
to prove that some of the most important<br/>
arts connected with the process of civiliz-<br/>
ation are not extremely ancient in China.<br/>
In the time of Confucius they wrote on<br/>
the finely pared bark of the bamboo with<br/>
a stile; they next used silk and linen, why<br/>
the character CHY paper is compounded<br/>
of that for silk. it was not until A. D. 95<br/>
that paper was invented. The materials<br/>
which they use in the manufacture are va-<br/>
rious. A coarse yellowish paper used for<br/>
wrapping parcels, is made from rice straw.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The better kinds are composed of the<br/>
LINER, or inner bark of a species of MORUS,<br/>
as well as of cotton, but principally of<br/>
bamboo. As a reading people, the litera-<br/>
ture of China is, as may be expected, very<br/>
abundant in quantity, if not superexcellent<br/>
in quality. The main portion consists of<br/>
plays, romances, and novels. The general<br/>
character of these indicates a powerful<br/>
imagination and a love of the grotesque;<br/>
but the literary tone is low, and there is<br/>
little, if any, moral purpose evinced in the<br/>
development of the plots. The historical<br/>
literature is highly significant of the na-<br/>
tional character. There is a continuous<br/>
history of China from the earliest ages<br/>
down to the conclusion of the Mongol<br/>
Tartar dynasty, called “The Twenty-one<br/>
Historians,” consisting of nearly three<br/>
hundred of those BROCHURES, or thin vo-<br/>
lumes, stitched with silk, about ten of<br/>
which are generally contained in a folding<br/>
case. Yet we should search in vain in<br/>
these volumes for anything beyond a bar-<br/>
ren chronicle of facts and dates. Trains<br/>
of reasoning and lessons of political phi-<br/>
losophy can scarcely be looked for in a<br/>
country, the theory of whose government<br/>
has always been despotic, however tem-<br/>
pered by other circumstances. – “Instead<br/>
of allowing,” observes Mr. Gutalaff, every<br/>
correctly, "that common mortals had any<br/>
part in the affair of the world, they speak<br/>
only of the emperors who then reigned.<br/>
They represent them as the source from<br/>
which the whole order of things emanated,<br/>
and all others as mere puppets, who moved<br/>
at the pleasure of the autocrat. This is<br/>
truly Chinese ; the whole nation is repre-<br/>
sented by the Emperor, and absorbed by<br/>
him.—EXCHANGE
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Alcohol in the Brain.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not uncommonly we see very promising<br/>
youths, who have shown great brilliancy<br/>
of mind, and strength and energy of char-<br/>
acter, commence drinking (moderately, to<br/>
be sure) at as early an age as twelve; per-<br/>
haps they take beer more frequently than<br/>
anything else, but as they approach man-<br/>
hood, the character of the mind is changed<br/>
—they become dull, almost stupid, and<br/>
have lost all the energy they once showed.<br/>
Their own hopes, as well as those of their<br/>
friends, are thus disappointed, for the for-<br/>
mer integrity of the mind is never regain-<br/>
ed. I suppose it will be understood, from<br/>
the remarks made in the early part of<br/>
what I have said, that alcohol in any form,<br/>
when taken into the system, goes forward<br/>
not to assist in nourishment, but to deteri-<br/>
orate the tissues of the brain, and unfit<br/>
them for performing their offices in a<br/>
healthy manner. At the age of from ten<br/>
to fourteen the brain is fast acquiring the<br/>
bulk it is ever after to maintain, and with<br/>
the growth in size there is a corresponding<br/>
growth in activity and power. If, in this<br/>
transitional period, we subject it to the<br/>
influences of so unnecessary an agent as<br/>
alcohol, we should expect it to be in some<br/>
way diverted from its natural growth. We<br/>
may not check its growth in size, but we<br/>
may diminish its quality, and it may re-<br/>
semble some fruits in whom the parent<br/>
plant has been supplied with improper<br/>
nourishment—the fruit is large and devel-<br/>
oped, but of a quality too poor for use.—<br/>
PROF. PHELPS, M. D.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The decoy which makes
Young Men Drunkards.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Go with us to the public house, where a<br/>
number of young men are assembled. All<br/>
is life and gayety. A few among them<br/>
may be young and timid. They approach<br/>
the counter, and wine, rum, and brandy,<br/>
are called for. One or two may stand back<br/>
and say, - No, gentlemen, we do not drink<br/>
any." Immediately the rest turn and be-<br/>
gin to taunt their friends who refuse to<br/>
drink, saying they are afraid of getting<br/>
''tight,'' of the ''ol' man;'' and some may<br/>
whisper audibly, ''Well, they are mean<br/>
fellows - they are afraid that they will<br/>
have to spend a cent!'' Here, you see, two<br/>
very sensitive nerves are touched—Cour-<br/>
age and Claverness. Their bosoms swell<br/>
with pride, and rather than bear these<br/>
stings of their companions, they step up to<br/>
the counter, and soon join in the revelry.<br/>
The ice is now broken and the first great<br/>
act in the drama performed. Others fol-<br/>
low in natural order, until the individual<br/>
who refused to drink at first, reels along<br/>
the public street without shame.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such is the manner in which thousands<br/>
of our promising young men are led away<br/>
by a false ambition; and thousands more<br/>
will follow in their path, unless they learn<br/>
the meaning of courage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have in our mind a number of no-<br/>
ble-hearted, good meaning men, who do<br/>
not possess strength of mind enough to<br/>
face this opposition. Rather than be call-<br/>
ed mean, they will follow up these habits<br/>
of drinking until their appetites become<br/>
uncontrollable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRESIDENT JOHNSON has made another<br/>
damaging speech (to himself) in which he<br/>
reviews the course of those opposed to his<br/>
policy. He has also made a brief response<br/>
to a colored crowd that was celebrating<br/>
the Emancipation Act. One thanked him<br/>
for his promise, when the President re-<br/>
plied: ''Yes, my man, you will find out in<br/>
the long run, who is your friend, and I<br/>
have always tried to be such.'' To this the<br/>
negro replied: ''Excuse me, Mr. Presi-<br/>
dent, but I hope you will do a little better<br/>
by us hereafter than you have been do-<br/>
ing.'''' Mr. A. H. Stephens has testified<br/>
before the Reconstruction Committee of<br/>
Congress ........ He held that the Southern<br/>
States lost none of their rights by rebel-<br/>
lion. ''True,'' says the EVENING POST,<br/>
but the REBELS in them lost all their<br/>
rights, EXCEPT THE RIGHT TO BE HANG-<br/>
ED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE COMMISSIONER of Customs, a day<br/>
or two since, received a report from a cus-<br/>
tom house officer stationed on the St.<br/>
Lawrence River, to the effect that a party<br/>
of smugglers had succeeded in laying pipes<br/>
at the bottom of the St. Lawrence, through<br/>
which they are engaged in pumping liquor<br/>
from Canada into the United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
INVESTIGATIONS into the nature of the<br/>
potato rot, have brought to light the fact<br/>
that it is created by insects imperceptible<br/>
to the eye, but innumerable in quantity,<br/>
which lay their eggs in the stem and send<br/>
the virus down to the root. A little black<br/>
speck, the size of a pin head, under the<br/>
microscope, turns out to be full two hun-<br/>
dred ferocious animals of the beetle form<br/>
and shape. A remedy is said to have been<br/>
discovered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To START A HAULEY HOME.—Fill<br/>
his mouth with dirt or gravel from the<br/>
road, and he'll go. Now, don't laugh at<br/>
this, but try it. The plain philosophy of<br/>
the thing is - it gives him something else<br/>
to think of. We have seen it tried a<br/>
hundred times, and it has never failed—<br/>
Ex.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ONE million tons of coal is given as the<br/>
annual product of the Chinese mines. The<br/>
consumption of coal in the Celestial Em-<br/>
pire is, therefore, one ton to every 406 per-<br/>
sons.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prospectus.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The object of the Company and the<br/>
facilities for its operations are thus brief-<br/>
ly stated in the prospectus. "It is pro-<br/>
posed to construct a line of Telegraph<br/>
by land from Maulmain or some other<br/>
point in the Tenasserim Provinces where<br/>
the British Indian line terminates, pass-<br/>
ing down the Malay Peninsula to Singa-<br/>
pore, touching at Penang and Malacca.<br/>
A branch line to be carried from Tavoy<br/>
to Bangkok, the capital of Siam, and<br/>
thence (with permission of the French<br/>
Government) to Saigon in Cochin China.<br/>
The length of these lines, it is estimated,<br/>
will be about 2,000 miles. The main line<br/>
will also be joined with that of the Ne-<br/>
therlands India Government by means<br/>
of a cable from Malacca to Bankalis in<br/>
Sumatra. The Governor General of In-<br/>
dia in Council is prepared to give every<br/>
reasonable assistance and facility to the<br/>
construction of that portion of the line<br/>
which will pass through British territory,<br/>
and the Governor General of Nether-<br/>
lands India has expressed himself in ve-<br/>
ry favorable terms in regard to the pro-<br/>
posed junction with the Netherlands In-<br/>
dia telegraph system. Concessions, for<br/>
ninety-nine years each, of the exclusive<br/>
right to carry the lines through their<br/>
respective territories, have been granted<br/>
by His Majesty the King of Siam, the<br/>
Sri Maha Rajah of Johore and the Sul-<br/>
tan of Sulleugore, and have received the<br/>
sanction of the Government of India and<br/>
the approval of the Foreign Office. The<br/>
protection of the several native Govern-<br/>
ments has been formally promised in the<br/>
construction and working of the lines.<br/>
From enquiries which have been institu-<br/>
ted, it is believed that the proposed lines<br/>
from the Tenasserim Provinces to Singa-<br/>
pore and Bangkok could be erected with-<br/>
in one year from their being commenced,<br/>
and from the progress which is being<br/>
made with the line of the Netherlands<br/>
India Government through Sumatra, it<br/>
is expected that it will be completed be-<br/>
fore the end of 1867, so that there would<br/>
be no delay in bringing the two lines<br/>
into conjunction and immediate working.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With regard to the probable usefulness<br/>
of the line the prospectus continues as<br/>
follows. "The proposed lines would<br/>
form important links in the establish-<br/>
ment of telegraphic communication be-<br/>
tween Europe, via India, and the Aus-<br/>
tralian Colonies on the one hand and<br/>
China on the other. Negotiations have,<br/>
indeed, been opened with the several<br/>
Governments of the former, which have<br/>
promised every assistance and encourage-<br/>
ment to the extension of the line in that<br/>
direction. It is believed that the sanc-<br/>
tion of the King of Cochin China could<br/>
be obtained to the construction of a line<br/>
from the Siamese frontier to his capital,<br/>
Hue, on the Gulf of Tonquin, whence by<br/>
submarine cable an extension to Hong-<br/>
kong could be completed with stations at<br/>
the island of Hainan if thought necess-<br/>
ary. The advantages of a land over a<br/>
submarine line of Telegraph are obvious.<br/>
The much smaller cost of placing such a<br/>
line, (less by two-thirds) the greater<br/>
facilities for effecting repairs and their<br/>
trifling expense as compared with the<br/>
employment of steamers &c in the case<br/>
of submarine lines, need scarcely be<br/>
pointed out, and in fact the cost of erec-<br/>
ting the 2,000 miles of lines proposed,<br/>
with all other necessary outlay, is estima-<br/>
ted not to exceed Fifty pounds per mile<br/>
By small gratuities to the local chiefs of<br/>
the districts through which the lines will<br/>
pass their perfect security may be effect-<br/>
ually assured, whilst the experience of<br/>
the persons engaged in laying the Dutch<br/>
lines through Java and Sumatra, coun-<br/>
tries in all respects similar to the Malay<br/>
Peninsula, has shown that there are no<br/>
great physical difficulties to be overcome<br/>
and no danger to be dreaded from the<br/>
hostility of the natives or from the de-<br/>
structive habits of wild beasts."—The im-<br/>
portance of the scheme is too modestly<br/>
put forward here. It is not that a most<br/>
important link in an ultimate chain of<br/>
communication to China will have been<br/>
established; for it is more than probable<br/>
that both the Russian American wires<br/>
will have been at work before that by<br/>
way of British India will have reached<br/>
even Singapore, or Bangkok. But it is<br/>
the connection—-the only practicable<br/>
one—-which this peninsular route will ef-<br/>
fect between Great Britain and her vast<br/>
Australasian possessions; besides the im-<br/>
portant consideration that, whatever<br/>
other lines of telegraphic communication<br/>
may extend to China—that proposed by<br/>
the present Company is the only one<br/>
that will be independent of American,<br/>
Russian, and Continental influence. Al-<br/>
together, the scheme is one which, com-<br/>
mercially, offers a most promising invest-<br/>
ment for capital, and the great and polit-<br/>
ical importance of which it is impossi-<br/>
ble to over-estimate.—-STRAITS TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Momentous News From
Affghanistan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(ENGLISHMAN.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
News which we have just received from<br/>
Affghanistan may throw some light upon<br/>
the nature of the Russian negotiations<br/>
which, as we lately stated, are said to be<br/>
going on at Cabool. A strong re-action is<br/>
taking place in favor of the deposed<br/>
Ameer Sher Ali Khan; and a brother of his<br/>
who was at Tukhtabol, in Turkistan, has<br/>
induced the troops to throw off their alle-<br/>
giance to Afzool Khan, and declare in<br/>
Sher Ali's favour. In consequence of this<br/>
state of feeling, the old troops are regarded<br/>
by Afsool Khan with extreme suspicion,<br/>
and he has been compelled to disband<br/>
many of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A private letter, which we have every<br/>
reason to consider trustworthy, states that<br/>
the Ameer is in constant communication<br/>
with the Russian Envoys who have arrived<br/>
in Cabool, and that they have arrived at a<br/>
perfect understanding together. The<br/>
English Agent is said to have been dis-<br/>
missed, and to have arrived in Peshawar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Russians have taken Samarkand,<br/>
Shahr Sube, Mery, and Koorchee, and are<br/>
at present encamped at the last named<br/>
place which they are fortifying and are<br/>
preparing to advance. The distance of<br/>
Koorchee from Bokhara is about forty-<br/>
four miles. From another source it is re-<br/>
ported that the Russian Government has<br/>
collected an army of 200,000 men at Ak<br/>
Masjid and Vernoe in addition to that<br/>
engaged against Khokan and Bokhara<br/>
with the object of conquering the whole of<br/>
the Provinces of Central Asia and that the<br/>
Czar would have carried out his schemes<br/>
of conquest before, but for the Khan<br/>
Badisha of Khotan having applied to the<br/>
British Government for aid. They have<br/>
also in another direction taken two of the<br/>
cities of Ili from whence they intend sen-<br/>
ding forces against the Kalmuck Tartars.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Prussian Future.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
EXAMINER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has repeatedly been observed of late<br/>
years, that the great initiative in European<br/>
affairs belongs henceforth to Germany.<br/>
France had its day three quarters of a<br/>
century ago. England has had hers.<br/>
Both exercised great influence, and sowed<br/>
their political ideas and institutions to<br/>
spring up and flourish here, to be over-<br/>
grown and to perish there, neither fully<br/>
prevailing. It was thought that when<br/>
Napoleon the Third seized the reins of<br/>
government he would regain for France<br/>
the great initiative lost in 1810. The<br/>
French Emperor has been powerful and<br/>
active, prosperous and victorious. And<br/>
yet results have not turned out anywhere<br/>
as he intended. He launched the vessel,<br/>
but wind and tide were too strong to allow<br/>
him to hold the helm. And so European<br/>
changes, although owing their first impulse<br/>
to him, have still drifted into a state un-<br/>
foreseen by any. Has Prussia, or have its<br/>
statesmen, really obtained a firm grasp of<br/>
the helm? We doubt it much.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It will be said that Germany lost the<br/>
initiative in 1848; that it achieved its<br/>
revolution and made its popular voice as<br/>
well as its caused intellects predominant,<br/>
without being able to arrive at any result,<br/>
or lay even the foundations of a politi[?]al<br/>
edifice. But in 1866 Germany moved not<br/>
by its own impulse. It merely parodied<br/>
France's EMPIRE. Its present movement<br/>
has, no doubt, issued more from the brain<br/>
of one man than from the nation. Yet<br/>
still that is a German brain, developing<br/>
German ideas, and appealing to German<br/>
sentiments. So much so, that we do not<br/>
believe it possible or likely that even<br/>
Bismarck could succeed in introducing in-<br/>
to Germany a mere second edition of Im-<br/>
perial France.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whatever he does must at least be new.<br/>
A frank and undisguised despotism of<br/>
Prussia, with the concentration of all<br/>
power at Berlin, would be hazardous in<br/>
the extreme. It would be incompatible<br/>
with the presence or existence of a Ger-<br/>
man Parliament, in which Prussians pro-<br/>
per would be in a minority; and to make<br/>
such an attempt whilst dispensing with a<br/>
German Parliament would lead to dangers<br/>
of another kind. We must suppose, then,<br/>
that a Federal system of some sort will be<br/>
tried, and that Germans will be tried, and<br/>
that Germans will attempt something more<br/>
original and more up to the level of the<br/>
age than such a resuscitation of medieval<br/>
barbarism and rapacity as that shown by<br/>
General Manteuffel at Frankfort.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE OVERLAND approach to Western<br/>
China from India through Burmah is a<br/>
matter that seems to be attracting a great<br/>
deal of attention at home. We lately<br/>
mentioned that a deputation, comprising<br/>
several influential members of parliament<br/>
and large merchants, had waited on the<br/>
home government to enforce the advisabil-<br/>
ity of directing a survey of the country<br/>
through Burmah to Western China, in or-<br/>
der to ascertain the most practicable route<br/>
for a railway. Since then, the Liverpool,<br/>
and other Chambers of Commerce, have<br/>
united with that of Manchester in prose-<br/>
cution of that object, and a formal memor-<br/>
ial upon it is to be presented to the Sec-<br/>
retary of state. We sincerely trust that<br/>
this movement will be regarded favourably<br/>
by the Derby Ministry, for there can be no<br/>
doubt that the formal sanction of the<br/>
British Government, if not actually essen-<br/>
tial to the success of the enterprise, will<br/>
greatly facilitate it.—EVENING MAIL
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN EXCHANGE, paper, among other<br/>
suggestions which will enable a person to<br/>
avoid the cholera, says: "Endeavor, if<br/>
possible, to keep a clear conscience, and<br/>
two or three clean shirts. Rise with the<br/>
lark, but avoid larks in the evening. Be<br/>
above ground in all your dwellings, and<br/>
above board in all your dealings. Love<br/>
your neighbors as yourself, but don't<br/>
have too many of them in the same<br/>
house with you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DR. NUNNISH, a French surgeon,<br/>
says the simple elevation of a person's<br/>
arm will always stop bleeding at the nose.<br/>
He explains the fact physiologically, and<br/>
declares it a positive remedy. Another<br/>
recommends pressing hard on the upper<br/>
lip. Rapid chewing of any substance is<br/>
also spoken of as a remedy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A GENTLEMAN, having occasion to<br/>
call upon an author, found him in his<br/>
study writing. He remarked the great<br/>
heat of the apartment, and said: - "It is<br/>
as hot as an oven." "So it ought to be,"<br/>
replied the author, "for it's here I make<br/>
my bread."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE Birds, of the air die to sustain<br/>
thee; the beasts of the fields die to nour-<br/>
ish thee; the fishes of the sea die to feed<br/>
thee; our stomachs are their common<br/>
sepulchres, with how many deaths are our<br/>
poor lives patched up; how full of death<br/>
is the life of momentary man.—-CHARLES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“MY DEAR MURPHY.” Said an Irish-<br/>
man to his friend, “why did you betray<br/>
the secret I told you?” “Is it betraying<br/>
you call it ? Sure, when I found I wasn’t<br/>
able to keep it myself, didn’t I do well<br/>
to tell it to somebody that could?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A FRENCH, comic paper, APROPOS of<br/>
the needle gun, says a weapon has been<br/>
invented which fires twenty balls a min-<br/>
ute and has a musical box in the butt,<br/>
thus doing away with the necessity of<br/>
regimental bands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE EMPEROR NAPOLEON, has just<br/>
subscribed ten thousand francs towards<br/>
the erection of a monument to Joan of<br/>
Arc, and the restoration of the Donjon<br/>
tower at Rouen where she was tortured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NATURE—-Bids me love myself, and<br/>
hate all that hurt me; reason bids me<br/>
love my friends, and hate those who en-<br/>
vy me; religion bids me love all and hate<br/>
none. Nature showeth care, reason wit,<br/>
religion love. Nature may induce me,<br/>
reason persuade me, but religion shall<br/>
rule me. I will hearken to nature in<br/>
much, to reason in more, to religion in<br/>
all.—-WARWICK.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE HOME PAPERS, state, that in<br/>
addition to providing the finest fleet of<br/>
transports hitherto built for the convey-<br/>
ance of troops to and from the East, a<br/>
commodious hospital will be erected at<br/>
Suez, for the reception of invalid soldiers<br/>
requiring rest and medical treatment af-<br/>
ter the passage from India, and before<br/>
undertaking the run across the desert;<br/>
and if, on arriving at Alexandria, any<br/>
should be found too ill to embark imme-<br/>
diately, arrangements have already been<br/>
concluded with the authorities of a for-<br/>
eign hospital in that city for their re-<br/>
ception.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER,
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 186 6
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COASTING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks, and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have<br/>
received por last Mail a fine assortment<br/>
of clothes for gentlemen, as Jackets,<br/>
Waistcoats, Trousers etc. etc. fit for<br/>
the season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
