---
linkTitle: 'March 29th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 29th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 29th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 35
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, March 29th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 12.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EXTRACTS.
Universal Suffrage.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher in a Sermon<br/>
preached in Brooklyn N. Y. Dec. 7th<br/>
1865, discoursed on Universal Suffrage in<br/>
the following remarkable language. While<br/>
it proves him to be far beyond the age in<br/>
which he lives, who shall say that twenty<br/>
years will not bring mankind fully to his<br/>
present stand point. Since he began his<br/>
illustrious carreer there have been greater<br/>
wonders than that accomplished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And that which our fathers had<br/>
hereditarily was in their children met<br/>
by another poisonous tendency, of a<br/>
like kind. So that the doctrine of the<br/>
equality of men and their civil safety<br/>
in perfect liberty was fast receiving its<br/>
death-blow. But this war, and the<br/>
great revolution in the public mind,<br/>
together with the progress of that divine<br/>
providence which makes us as the womb<br/>
out of which higher thoughts are born,<br/>
have changed the state of things; and<br/>
we are now standing on the threshold<br/>
of a better realization of the doctrines<br/>
of civil rights than ever before was<br/>
known. The doctrine of suffrage, im-<br/>
partial, equal, and universal, is the<br/>
doctrine of to-day. It may be that it<br/>
cannot assert its full authority to-day;<br/>
but from this day forward there will<br/>
be no rest in any state, or in any part<br/>
of this nation, until this doctrine is<br/>
recognized. [Applause.] What you<br/>
can do, or what you cannot do, to-<br/>
day, may be a question; but the stream<br/>
of things in the world points toward<br/>
the augmentation of democratic ideas.<br/>
All the delayed tendencies of our<br/>
American institutions point in that<br/>
direction. All the ideas of this great<br/>
American people, when they shall have<br/>
been emancipated, from the prejudices<br/>
and hatreds engendered by slavery,<br/>
will work toward this great consum-<br/>
mation. And nothing is surer than<br/>
that the day will ere long come in this<br/>
land when civil rights will be im-<br/>
partially and universally distributed to<br/>
all men alike—and among them, as<br/>
highest and chiefest, suffrage, which<br/>
makes a man a potentate among his<br/>
fellow sovereigns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And I do not stop at the point of<br/>
suffrage as between skin and skin. The<br/>
mere question of color is transient.<br/>
There is a deeper prejudice as between<br/>
sex and sex than there is as between<br/>
skin and skin. And the day is com-<br/>
ing, not only when every man, though<br/>
he be dark as midnight, shall vote;<br/>
but when, as the household gather<br/>
around the family altar to read God's<br/>
Word, so father, and mother, and<br/>
brother, and sister shall gather around<br/>
the polls to vote. And we shall never<br/>
escape from the piggish steam of politics<br/>
fill in this matter of suffrage man ceases<br/>
to put asunder what God has joined<br/>
together.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Men may think that this harping<br/>
upon the question of suffrage is a poor<br/>
and petty thing, in the presence of<br/>
greater and more substantial realities;<br/>
but tell me, if you can, what is greater<br/>
and more sublime than this very ques-<br/>
tion of suffrage. That bit of paper<br/>
which is called a vote is not mere<br/>
paper; it is the symbol of a man's will.<br/>
And what is the will of an assembled<br/>
nation? The king is a man sitting on<br/>
a throne and giving laws to an empire;<br/>
but what is he compared with an<br/>
empire sitting on a throne and giving<br/>
laws to itself? The voice of thirty<br/>
million men carries both music and<br/>
thunder; and nothing is so sublime on<br/>
God's earth as the silent omnipotence<br/>
of the ballot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When winter has for months held the<br/>
earth in bondage, and the period come<br/>
for its emancipation, what is it that is<br/>
sent for its rescue? The driving light-<br/>
ning; the resounding thunder; the<br/>
pelting storm. The raindrops, soft<br/>
and mellow, come plashing down. All<br/>
through the night they fall, and fall;<br/>
and in the morning where is the snow?<br/>
It is wasted and gone. The rivers<br/>
are bound with icy fetters; the rain<br/>
falls, and falls, and falls; and behold<br/>
the ice is rotten and sunk to the bot-<br/>
tom, or is swept out to the sea, and<br/>
the rivers are set free. The earth is<br/>
brown and russet, and the rain still<br/>
falls, and falls, and falls; and myriads<br/>
of roots wake up and send forth green<br/>
banners: and in every tree and bush<br/>
and vine, on every hillside, through<br/>
every valley, and in every field, are<br/>
signs and tokens of resurrection. A<br/>
more wonderful power has there been<br/>
in these silent plashing drops, falling<br/>
still as dust, to bring out the green-<br/>
ness of resurrected spring, than there<br/>
would have been in myriads of the<br/>
mightiest chariots if God had sent them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Silent falls the ballot, and away go<br/>
shackles. Silent falls the ballot, and<br/>
away go bondages. Still silent falls<br/>
the ballot, and a whole continent is<br/>
renewed, and liberty stands dressed<br/>
in her spring greenery. And on God's<br/>
earth there is nothing more beauteous<br/>
and sublime than the spectacle of a<br/>
nation voting.-—N. Y. Independent.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Route with Western China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This long-mooted subject, of such<br/>
paramount local interest, and which<br/>
has had such strong public advocacy,<br/>
unaided, unfortunately, by Govern-<br/>
ment approbation, has now a blush of<br/>
prospect upon it. The attention of the<br/>
English authorities and public has<br/>
been so frequent and strongly drawn<br/>
to it of late, and it may be supposed,<br/>
so convincingly that (it is alleged) the<br/>
Secretary of State for India has for-<br/>
warded instructions to the local Gov-<br/>
ernment to entertain the subject, and<br/>
give their attention to it, if the pro-<br/>
posed scheme be found based on<br/>
practicability. We may fancy, there-<br/>
fore, that supposing such statement<br/>
correct, and that we have thus got<br/>
the wedge so far in the matter, the<br/>
remainder of the project will not be<br/>
immensely difficult to overcome, the<br/>
contemplated route and its obvious<br/>
advantages have been so familiarized<br/>
to the public—-more immediately that<br/>
of Burma—-by repeated and lengthen-<br/>
ed discussion in the local journals,<br/>
that it would be superfluous to re-open<br/>
the outline in this brief notice of the<br/>
pleasing circumstance we record.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Wonderful Railway
Engineer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE wildest romance that was ever<br/>
written, is not so marvellous as some<br/>
true stories of the lives of great men.<br/>
Out of the humblest homes, in the<br/>
lowest depths of social life, God has<br/>
sometimes caused a man to arise, who<br/>
has attained to the summit of human<br/>
greatness, and left his impress on the<br/>
institutions of his age and country:<br/>
like the lark, that builds its lowly nest<br/>
amid the clods of the valley, and yet<br/>
soars aloft, and sings its morning song<br/>
above the clouds. But, of course, the<br/>
instances are rare of such progress<br/>
from the lowly to the lofty, and some-<br/>
time the cases are more wonderful<br/>
than instructive, for it is not easy to<br/>
note the steps, or trace the path, of<br/>
these mental gladiators of our race.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Something miraculous, either in them-<br/>
selves, or their circumstances, or both,<br/>
makes the case a brilliant exception.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the life of George Stephenson,<br/>
while wonderful as to progress, and<br/>
astounding as to results, is chiefly in-<br/>
structive, as showing us a steady, step-<br/>
by-step plodding career, from the lowest<br/>
rindle [?] in the social ladder to the highest.<br/>
He had a long climb, a heavy toil, a<br/>
hard struggle, before he gained a good<br/>
position, and began to breathe the free<br/>
air of success, or bask in the sunshine<br/>
of prosperity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Robert and Mabel Stephenson, were<br/>
a poor, honest couple, who lived at<br/>
the colliery village of Wylam—eight<br/>
miles from Newcastle-on-Tyne. Like<br/>
many labouring people, they had but<br/>
one room, in a little detached house<br/>
still standing, whose four apartments<br/>
were let off to as many families. Mabel,<br/>
though of delicate constitution, was<br/>
spoken of as “a real canny body,”<br/>
which means in Northumberland, a<br/>
good housewife, a kind, sensible woman.<br/>
Robert was of a slender frame, and<br/>
most amiable disposition. He had an<br/>
eye for all that was beautiful in nature,<br/>
and a heart to feel both love and pity<br/>
to the animal creation. His occupa-<br/>
tion was that of fireman to the pumping<br/>
engine of the colliery. His wages<br/>
were twelve shillings a week. Their<br/>
family consisted of six children—James,<br/>
George, Eleanor, Robert, John, and<br/>
Anne, at the average difference of two<br/>
years between the ages of each child.<br/>
George was born June 9th, 1781. Poor<br/>
neighbours, who yet remember the<br/>
family, bear this honourable testimony<br/>
to them. “They had very little to<br/>
come and go upon, they were honest<br/>
folk, but sore hadden down in the<br/>
world.” “Honest folk!” What a<br/>
blessing to inherit an honest name,<br/>
and to have during childhood an<br/>
honest example. This poor, but<br/>
virtuous home, was the only school<br/>
the children knew; bread was dear,<br/>
and it was hard to get them food, so<br/>
schooling was altogether beyond them.<br/>
It was a great day for little George,<br/>
when he was first trusted to carry his<br/>
father’s dinner to him, and to take<br/>
charge of his little brothers and sister,<br/>
and keep them from straying on the<br/>
wooden tram-road, where the children-<br/>
waggons dragged the coal past the<br/>
doorway of the Stephenson’s lowly<br/>
dwelling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When George was eight years old,<br/>
the family following their work, remov-<br/>
ed to Dewley Burn, a few miles off,<br/>
and here George first began to earn an<br/>
honest penny by labour. A widow,<br/>
named Grace Ainslie, had a little farm,<br/>
and her cows used to graze on the sides<br/>
of the tram-road or waggon-ways, and<br/>
she needed a boy to herd them, and<br/>
keep them from straying. For this<br/>
service, little George had twopence a<br/>
day. While watching the cows, the<br/>
boy found time to make whistles out<br/>
of reeds, and to model clay engines, in<br/>
a bog near at hand, a proceeding that<br/>
looked not much more inviting than<br/>
making dirtpies, but the mechanical<br/>
genius of the future engineer was even<br/>
then stirring within him. Before the<br/>
child could stride across the furrows,<br/>
he was set to leading the horses at<br/>
ploughing, and he used to say in after<br/>
life, he went to work when other child-<br/>
ren were asleep in their beds. For-<br/>
tunately, it was work in the open air,<br/>
and he had intervals of leisure for play,<br/>
so it did not hurt him. His wages<br/>
rose gradually from twopence to four-<br/>
pence, and then he was taken on to<br/>
work at the colliery as a “picker,”<br/>
(taking stones and rubbish out the coal)<br/>
until he reached the sum of eightpence<br/>
a day. He is said then to have been<br/>
“a grit bare legged laddie,” full of fun,<br/>
and always trying to imitate every-<br/>
thing he saw or heard, but never in<br/>
all his frolics, unkind. He was very<br/>
fond of birds, and a favourite black-<br/>
bird used to roost in his cottage, fly<br/>
out and enjoy its liberty all day, and<br/>
even depart to the woods to pair and<br/>
rear its young, returning for shelter in<br/>
bad weather, to George, and this went<br/>
on for years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At fourteen years of age, George<br/>
thought it a great promotion when he<br/>
was taken on to assist his father in<br/>
firing the engine, at the wages of a<br/>
shilling a day. He now began to study<br/>
the engine, in the hope of the sooner<br/>
doing a man’s work, and earning a<br/>
man’s wages. He had no one to teach<br/>
him anything; it was by cleaning and<br/>
taking to pieces as he could, different<br/>
parts, that the meaning and purpose<br/>
of the whole came into his mind. His<br/>
diligence was observed, and by the<br/>
time he was sixteen, he was put to<br/>
firing a pumping engine at a neighbour-<br/>
ing pit, and when, on the first Satur-<br/>
day night, he was paid twelve shillings<br/>
for his week's work, the same wages<br/>
his father earned, he said as he come<br/>
out and told his fellow workmen, "Now<br/>
I'm a made man for life."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From this time to his eighteenth<br/>
year, he continued to make progress,<br/>
and gained the character of a clever,<br/>
steady workman, always to be depend-<br/>
ed on. But while he was thus improv-<br/>
ing as a worker, a new want sprung<br/>
up in his mind. He could neither<br/>
read nor write. He had the good<br/>
sense to perceive that it was needful if<br/>
he was to continue to improve his<br/>
condition, he must be able to do both.<br/>
So no false shame prevented him from<br/>
making a beginning, grown man as he<br/>
now appeared, at his book. He found<br/>
a teacher, Robin Cowens, who kept<br/>
an evening school, and George paid<br/>
threepence a week, and began the<br/>
mystery of reading and writing. He<br/>
did not learn very fast; everything<br/>
was gradual in George Stephenson's<br/>
progress. After a year's study, he was<br/>
pleased at the age of nineteen, to be<br/>
able to write his name. Soon after, a<br/>
Scotchman named Andrew Robertson<br/>
set up a night-school, and as he was<br/>
a skilful arithmetician, George Stephen-<br/>
son became his scholar; and soon took<br/>
great delight in figures, employing his<br/>
thoughts during the day in doing his<br/>
sums mentally, and making great<br/>
progress. The good young workman<br/>
was very happy at this time, and he<br/>
was the means of happiness to others.<br/>
His parents were comforted for all their<br/>
trials by seeing how steady and diligent<br/>
their son was. Round his engine fire,<br/>
flocks of birds, mostly robins, would<br/>
gather for the crumbs he gave them,<br/>
and his faithful dog daily brought his<br/>
dinner in a can suspended round his<br/>
neck, to the pit. Every living thing<br/>
loved the brave and gentle youth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When he was twenty years of age,<br/>
and after some difficulty from the envy<br/>
of an overseer, he had learned to be<br/>
"a Breaksman," with wages from £1<br/>
14s. to £2 a fortnight; he learned in<br/>
his evening hours to mend shoes, and<br/>
as he did all he undertook in the best<br/>
manner he was able, he soon became<br/>
expert as a shoe-mender. This new<br/>
branch of employment was destined<br/>
to effect an important change in his<br/>
condition. Fanny Henderson, a young<br/>
servant at a neighbouring farm-house,<br/>
was not only fair to the eye, but good<br/>
and sweet-tempered; one of those<br/>
young woman whose modesty and<br/>
worth elevate womanhood. Her<br/>
shoes went to George to sole, and the<br/>
young man with all the fervour of his<br/>
honest love, carried the shoes about<br/>
with him in his pocket, and was proud<br/>
and pleased that he had made "a good<br/>
job of them,"—no doubt Fanny thought<br/>
so to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Out of this shoe-mending business,<br/>
George saved his first guinea, and be-<br/>
gan to consider himself as he said,<br/>
"a rich man." He was rich in the best<br/>
sense. Good health and good conduct<br/>
are true riches. When his fellow-<br/>
workmen on Saturday afternoons were<br/>
lounging about with bad companions,<br/>
or spending their earnings at the pub-<br/>
lic house, George was taking the engine<br/>
to pieces, cleaning it, learning it all<br/>
by heart, and it was then said of him,<br/>
"He never missed a day's work, and<br/>
never was intoxicated in his life."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
British Workman
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A wood Thief Surprised.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gentleman living in Terra Haute,<br/>
whose stove wood melted away faster<br/>
than was warranted by the mildness of<br/>
the weather, charged a fine looking<br/>
stick with a few ounces of powder, and<br/>
left it on the pile. The Express thus<br/>
relates the sequel:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Wednesday forenoon an explosion<br/>
was heard in a house near by, and a<br/>
kitchen window was spared no panes.<br/>
On going to the spot, a sight might<br/>
have been seen. The stove had joined<br/>
a peace conference, a kettle of pork and<br/>
cabbage shot up through the roof like<br/>
an arrow. A dish of apples stewing<br/>
on the stove, gave the ceiling the ap-<br/>
pearance of a map of California: A<br/>
cr[?]t was sleeping under the stove<br/>
went through the broken window as<br/>
though after the doctor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cat has not been heard from<br/>
since, but a smell of burnt cat hair<br/>
pervades that house very thoroughly.<br/>
A flat iron was hoisted into a pan of<br/>
dough, a chair lost three legs, the<br/>
wood-box looks sick, while the roof of<br/>
the house looks like a bursted apple<br/>
dumpling."— Lo. Co News
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
John Adams' Courtship
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent of the Boston Tran-<br/>
script gives the following interest-<br/>
ing reminiscence:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John Adams sought the hand of the<br/>
daughter of Rev. Mr. Smith, of Wey-<br/>
mouth, and Miss Abigail was pleased<br/>
to accept the proposal of Mr. Adams,<br/>
much to the chagrin of the parson,<br/>
the objection being that Adams was a<br/>
man of humble origin and moderate<br/>
ability, and could never aspire to any-<br/>
thing more than the position of a hum-<br/>
ble village lawyer. His visits to her<br/>
home were frequent and prolonged, but<br/>
no hospitalities were tendered by the<br/>
Rev. Mr. Smith, either to Adams or his<br/>
nag, for while Abigail only had watch-<br/>
ful care over him, his "bay" passed<br/>
the weary hours of night in feeding<br/>
on the hitching post.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, Abigail had a sister whose<br/>
name was Mary, who was betrothed<br/>
to a wealthier, and it was believed<br/>
more promising young man, whose<br/>
presence was welcomed most cordially<br/>
by the reverend's family.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The good parson had promised<br/>
each of his daughters that on the oc-<br/>
casion of their marriage he would<br/>
preach a sermon from a text of the<br/>
bride's own selection. Mary first<br/>
married, and "beautifully appropriate"<br/>
did the father think the text— "And<br/>
Mary hath chosen that good part!" In<br/>
due time Abigail marries, and chooses<br/>
for her text, "For John came neither<br/>
eating nor drinking, and they say, He<br/>
hath a devil." Tradition does not tell<br/>
us, as we remember, how the text<br/>
pleased the father, but the sermon was<br/>
preached, Mary, indeed, chose a good<br/>
part; her life was a happy one, and<br/>
her husband was a man of means and<br/>
respectability. Abigail was a woman<br/>
of strong affections, a practical wife,<br/>
and possessed a great nobility of char-<br/>
acter, while the names of her husband<br/>
and son will live as long as the love<br/>
of liberty inspires the soul of man.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Working and Thinking.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a no less fatal error to despise<br/>
labor when regulated by intellect, than<br/>
to value it for its own sake. We are<br/>
always in these days trying to separ-<br/>
ate the two; we want one man to be<br/>
always thinking, and another to be al-<br/>
ways working, and we call one a gen-<br/>
tleman and the other an operative;<br/>
whereas, the workman ought often to<br/>
be thinking, and the thinker ought<br/>
often to be working; and both should<br/>
be gentlemen in the best sense. As<br/>
it is, we make both ungentle, the one<br/>
envying, and the other despising his<br/>
brother; and the mass of society is<br/>
made up of the morbid thinkers and<br/>
the miserable workers. Now it is on-<br/>
ly by labor that thought can be made<br/>
healthy, and only by thought that<br/>
labor can be made happy, and the<br/>
professions should be liberal, and there<br/>
should be less pride felt in peculiarity<br/>
of employment, and more in excellence<br/>
of achievement.—Anon.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
What an Iron Bar Became.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bar of iron worth five dollars<br/>
worked into horse-shoes, is worth ten<br/>
dollars and a half, made into needles,<br/>
it is worth $355; made into penknife<br/>
blades, it is worth $3,285; made into<br/>
balance-springs of watches, it is worth<br/>
$250,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a drilling the poor bar must<br/>
undergo to reach all that; but ham-<br/>
mered and beaten and pounded and<br/>
rolled and rubbed and polished, how<br/>
was its value increased! It might well<br/>
have quivered and complained under<br/>
the hard knocks it got; but were they<br/>
not all necessary to draw out its fine<br/>
qualities, and fit it for higher offices!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And so, all the drilling and training<br/>
to which you are subject, all the trials<br/>
and hardships, thumps and pains which<br/>
often seem so hard to you, serve to<br/>
bring out your nobler and finer qual-<br/>
ities, and fit you for more responsible<br/>
posts, and greater usefulness in the<br/>
world.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
March 29th 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The Royal remains of His
Majesty the 2nd King.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having learned that it would be<br/>
agreeable to the friends of His Ma-<br/>
jesty the late second king to have his<br/>
European and American friends<br/>
visit his remains in the royal urn, we,<br/>
in company with our wives and<br/>
children presented ourselves on the<br/>
morning of the 27th inst. at the gate<br/>
of the WANGNA for this purpose.<br/>
Here we found our friend and near<br/>
neighbor Phya Mont'ean Tawraisan<br/>
the Prime Minister for the Wangna<br/>
department waiting for us according<br/>
to appointment. He requested us to<br/>
be seated until he could exchange his<br/>
silk apparel for one entirely of white<br/>
which Siamese custom very properly,<br/>
as we think, consider the most suita-<br/>
ble for mourning purposes. His Ex-<br/>
cellency took off nearly every thread of<br/>
raiment in which he came from home<br/>
and dressed himself entirely in white<br/>
cotton shirting ; and this he did in<br/>
our presence so adroitly as not to ex-<br/>
pose his person in the least. Being<br/>
thus ready, His Excellency conducted<br/>
us through a ponderous gate of the<br/>
palace, across a beautiful lawn into<br/>
the private chapel of the second king.<br/>
Its name is P'rat'minang Poot'ienwan<br/>
it would seem to have been originally<br/>
used for a royal audience hall. It is<br/>
probably not less than 100 feet long,<br/>
40 wide and as many high to the ceil-<br/>
ing. Its walls, as usual, have hosts<br/>
of angelic beings painted on them.<br/>
Towards the further end of the hall<br/>
sit the chief brazen idol on a throne<br/>
fifteen feet high. The plat-form of<br/>
its seat was pyramidal in form some-<br/>
what like a pagoda with rectangular<br/>
gradations on which smaller idols were<br/>
placed. We noticed one of silver, one<br/>
of gold, and one of glass. These were<br/>
all furnished with the usual showy<br/>
articles of glass, gold and silver shrub-<br/>
bery, sundry figures made of alabaster<br/>
and marble, artificial flowers and<br/>
fruit etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were next conducted out of this<br/>
chapel to another royal hall under<br/>
another roof, called P'rat'minang Itasra<br/>
Winitch'ie—-the throne of royal judg-<br/>
ment. This hall is about the size of<br/>
the chapel hall, but more richly fin-<br/>
ished and furnished. On entering it<br/>
you are struck with the display made<br/>
toward the further end. Your eyes<br/>
fix at once on the royal urn standing<br/>
on an octagonal pyramid twenty feet<br/>
high. Directly over it there is sus-<br/>
pended a seven storied white canopy<br/>
each story having a gilded band en-<br/>
circling it. The lower story may be<br/>
six feet in diameter, the top one less<br/>
than one foot, and the intervening ones<br/>
all evenly graduated to those extremes.<br/>
The whole canopy is about ten feet<br/>
high, suspended from a small circular<br/>
niche in the ceiling. The short handle<br/>
of it appears to rest on a small gold<br/>
ball on the top of the spire of the urn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The urn has the appearance of being<br/>
most richly decked with precious stones<br/>
but probably there is far more of show<br/>
than reality. Its size and shape is adapted<br/>
to an adult human body in a sitting<br/>
posture. The part for the shoulders<br/>
is the broadest, that for the neck much<br/>
smaller, and that for the head a little<br/>
enlarged, with the form of a Siamese<br/>
crown on its top, and a gilded spire<br/>
extending from it to the canopy. Its<br/>
general form appears to be octagonal.<br/>
Its foot is a little larger than its mid-<br/>
dle. In this urn we were informed<br/>
the royal remains are seated clothed in<br/>
full state with a crown upon the head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The base of the pyramidal throne<br/>
on which the body sits is probably not<br/>
less than forty-five feet in circumfer-<br/>
ence. It is narrowed to the proper size<br/>
for receiving the royal urn by right<br/>
angle graduations. On these are tastefully<br/>
arranged small artificial trees made of<br/>
solid gold and silver placed under<br/>
glass screens—artificial flowers and<br/>
fruit made of glass porcelain and<br/>
other materials—alabaster and mar-<br/>
ble figures of men women and child-<br/>
ren—silver, bronze, and glass figures<br/>
of birds celestial and terrestial—splen-<br/>
did lamp-stands all fitted with white<br/>
wax candles etc. etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The body of the pyramid makes a<br/>
brilliant appearance of itself, because<br/>
of its carved work heavily gilded,<br/>
with small pieces of glass blue, green<br/>
and brilliant accurately cut into di-<br/>
verse angles and forms, neatly fitted<br/>
in the carving. But the appearance is<br/>
doubtless vastly richer than the reality.<br/>
The glass is made in Siam in the form<br/>
of globes with a lining of lead on the<br/>
inside. By cutting the lead lining<br/>
in any form you please, the glass<br/>
breaks precisely in that form. Most<br/>
of the Siamese showy articles of<br/>
state are thus decked and made to look<br/>
brilliant and rich with comparatively<br/>
little cost above that of the work of<br/>
carving and setting in the glass. The<br/>
articles look well at a distance but will<br/>
not bear close inspection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In front of the royal pyramid there<br/>
is a strip of gold cloth six inches wide<br/>
and twenty or thirty feet long extend-<br/>
ing down from the urn along the<br/>
front side of the pyramid, and its<br/>
lower end neatly folded and laid on a<br/>
stand. The object of this strip or<br/>
band is to form a communication be-<br/>
tween the body of the deceased, the<br/>
officiating priests, and the sacred books.<br/>
Hence all the priests take hold of it<br/>
when performing certain of their re-<br/>
hearsals. Just at the foot of this stand<br/>
is a card-rack in which are sundry<br/>
letter-envelopes in mourning, contain-<br/>
ing letters of condolence, probably,<br/>
that have been received by the Supreme<br/>
king or other relatives of the deceased<br/>
king. On the right hand side of the<br/>
throne is the toilet which the deceased<br/>
used when living. The stand, pitcher,<br/>
wash-bowl, tumblers, soap, towels,<br/>
mirror, &c. are just as we used to see<br/>
them in His Majesty's dressing room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We noticed behind the base of the<br/>
throne two small figures of white<br/>
persons carved out of alabaster stout<br/>
or white marble horribly emaciated,<br/>
sitting on the floor, each with one foot on<br/>
the knee. We could not divine for what<br/>
purpose they were put there, unless<br/>
it be to symbolize the wasting power<br/>
of disease and that death is certainly<br/>
approaching even kings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A little to the right of the pyramid<br/>
is a real throne, used by the de-<br/>
ceased in life—and there is another of<br/>
superior dimensions in the rear of the<br/>
hall. The seat of the former may be<br/>
4 feet above the floor—-the latter 8 or<br/>
10 feet. Each of these is covered by the<br/>
usual Sawckrâ chât or the many storied<br/>
royal umbrella. In front of the royal<br/>
pyramid are four artificial trees from<br/>
5 to 6 feet high made, it was said, of<br/>
solid gold. And in the rear there<br/>
are four silver trees of the same size<br/>
made of solid silver. There are round<br/>
about the pyramid the usual gold<br/>
wrought standards of royalty from<br/>
12 to 16 in number. They are simply<br/>
the Sawckrachât on a smaller scale<br/>
than those covering the thrones. Some<br/>
are 3—some 5—and some 7 stories<br/>
high. On the left hand of the pyra-<br/>
mid is a large spittoon made apparently<br/>
of solid gold; and near by are the<br/>
gold sandals which His Majesty wore<br/>
whenever he appeared in his most mag-<br/>
nificent estate. We took them up and<br/>
examined them critically. The inner<br/>
sole is a thick plate of fine gold—and<br/>
the under one of common leather<br/>
having the ball of the foot decked<br/>
with what appeared to be small rubies<br/>
and diamonds, but more probably of<br/>
glass composition. The uppers of the<br/>
sandals were adorned with the same<br/>
material. We noticed a gold betel<br/>
box which we could more readily be-<br/>
lieve is enriched by many small dia-<br/>
monds and rubies. The gold pin with<br/>
which the deceased fastened his top-<br/>
knot when a little boy was displayed<br/>
on a plate of corresponding richness<br/>
with other precious mementoes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole area of the spacious<br/>
hall occupied by the pyramid and its<br/>
appurtenances was screened from the<br/>
other parts by rich tapestry. The one<br/>
in front was woven with beautiful<br/>
figures of gilded flower vases. The<br/>
one in the rear had small leaves cut<br/>
from sheets of pure gold sewed with<br/>
great labor upon the woolen fabric,<br/>
thickly studding the whole with heavy<br/>
gold plate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we entered the hall, the front<br/>
curtains were opened to give us full<br/>
view. And when we were retiring<br/>
they were closed. During nearly all<br/>
the half hour we were in the hall a<br/>
band of 12 Buddhist priests were en-<br/>
gaged in chanting a kind of funeral<br/>
dirge. A little before we closed our<br/>
observations we heard the word given<br/>
that it was time for them to take their<br/>
last meal for the day. There were<br/>
twelve little trays of food arranged<br/>
in a row all ready for them. The<br/>
dirge ceased and a far more pleasant<br/>
exercise for them followed. Their<br/>
food appeared to be neatly prepared,<br/>
and was indeed quite tempting to the<br/>
writer, not to enlarge upon the zest<br/>
with which the clerical fraternity par-<br/>
took of it,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed that this chanting<br/>
of the priests and feeding them is to<br/>
be continued daily until the final cere-<br/>
monies take place about 10 months<br/>
hence.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR,-— Your correspondent in her<br/>
last article without having rightly de-<br/>
fined the nature of that concluding<br/>
remark "taking away at one sweep<br/>
the whole object of salvation and the<br/>
teachings of scripture" has made an<br/>
assertion at once so grave, and so per-<br/>
fectly contrary to the spirit of the<br/>
article she refers to, that I am forced,<br/>
most unwillingly, upon holier ground<br/>
than I had ever dreamed of entering.<br/>
I cannot stop to trifle with the why or<br/>
wherefore, but with all reverence, and<br/>
all the kindliness that a common faith<br/>
inspires, beg to refer 'Penelope' to<br/>
our mutual 'Sublime Instructor'—-who<br/>
has alone pointed out, by his every<br/>
day walk in life, the loftiest possible<br/>
height of human virtue-—who alone<br/>
reached up to, and compassed that most<br/>
perfect of philosophical truths "char-<br/>
ity"—-who in the mysterious promp-<br/>
tings of His infinite sympathy with<br/>
man, lived, died and awoke again in<br/>
this world of ours, for us, and in order<br/>
that "all" might share in the full and<br/>
perfect "fruition" of his good work,<br/>
and now "ministers" for us and our<br/>
frailties, at the right hand of Him<br/>
whom creation calls God, Revelation<br/>
Light, but Wisdom Compassion; for<br/>
it was from His teaching and practical<br/>
life, I discovered (however imperfectly)<br/>
that though he mixed freely with the<br/>
world—-saw it as only He could in all<br/>
its various aspects, said never a word,<br/>
nor let fall from His sacred lips the<br/>
smallest or feeblest whisper of a cen-<br/>
sure against any of the forms of social<br/>
enjoyment, customs &c. of his day—-<br/>
that when some would be righteous<br/>
persons rebuked him for eating with<br/>
publicans and sinners, He replied<br/>
"Go ye and learn what that meaneth<br/>
I will have mercy and not sacrifice";<br/>
further that he emphatically enjoined<br/>
on His followers, as a right, just, and<br/>
bounded duty to "render unto Caesar<br/>
the things which are Caesar's, and unto<br/>
God the things which are God's."<br/>
Also to every faithful steward He<br/>
charged the judicious management of<br/>
only one world, as far as I can dis-<br/>
cover, and that the present, and all<br/>
his promises of blessings, and rewards<br/>
are held out to us, to induce us first<br/>
to lead a true, honest, good life here,<br/>
in order to secure a happier one here-<br/>
after. Strange, it seems therefore, that<br/>
those who are especially commanded<br/>
to hope and believe all things favora-<br/>
ble of others, should have such an<br/>
aptitude for discovering faults, and<br/>
while straining at "a gnat"—-dancing<br/>
and its immoral tendencies,—-should<br/>
find so little difficulty in swallowing "a<br/>
camel" in the shape of "all unchari-<br/>
tableness" To such our Saviour said<br/>
"ye pay tithe of mint and cummin<br/>
but have omitted the weightier matters<br/>
of the law, judgement, mercy, faith,<br/>
these ought ye to have done, and not to<br/>
leave the others undone."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In conclusion allow me to remark<br/>
that is required just that which "Pen-<br/>
elope" pretends to ignore, (for I cannot<br/>
believe that she really does so,) a phil-<br/>
osophy that might bring a saint down<br/>
from Heaven, the Home of our high-<br/>
est ideal—to laugh with those that<br/>
laugh, and to weep with those that<br/>
weep" to become "all things to all<br/>
men" in the great work of winning<br/>
some to Christ. Or one, as broad<br/>
deep, and expansive as that of Shak-<br/>
spear's, with surface beneath surface,<br/>
and scope enough to fill the most ben-<br/>
evolent of minds to rightly appreciate<br/>
the law of mutual fitness all round,<br/>
that every thing is good in its place,<br/>
that a time being appointed to hope, to<br/>
pray, and to mourn, proves a time<br/>
appointed to laugh, to dance, to sing, to<br/>
play.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Zeal such as Penelope's in riding a<br/>
favorite "hobby" is good in its place,<br/>
too, though it does not excuse exclu-<br/>
siveness of soul, or any amount of<br/>
"bad" temper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Jesuit may be a good type of the<br/>
faith he lives by, but that does not<br/>
justify another standing outside of the<br/>
threshold of his soul, to deny to him<br/>
that which he claims for himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fangs of Africa or the Steins<br/>
of Cambodia, may have natures of<br/>
as substantial a value, as we have, and<br/>
may not be pointed at as miserable<br/>
blots, for they in the work of a "Great<br/>
Artist" form a part of a perfect whole.<br/>
If they lived as we do under the<br/>
growth of six thousand years experi-<br/>
ence, might have discovered ere this<br/>
what power there is in a courteous<br/>
and earnest examination, and not have<br/>
denied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
carried a flame, where light alone<br/>
would suffice. To us they are not<br/>
without their value, these Fangs and<br/>
Steins, for they prove a God, and<br/>
there is much to be respected even in<br/>
their shade, laughter, joy, sorrow,<br/>
life, death, and a better resurrection.<br/>
Nemo tam pauper vivit quam natus-<br/>
est.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
ULYSSES.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sokan conoluded.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from No. 10.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the year of the rat, 4th of the<br/>
decade, civil era 1214 there was a<br/>
Sókan festival in the palace of the<br/>
second king of the present reign. The<br/>
mount Krilat was displayed at that<br/>
time and other things and plays more<br/>
than ordinary, but they were not of<br/>
the highest degree as was customary<br/>
for the Chówfa Sókan. They were<br/>
only similar to such as had been had<br/>
in the palace of the 2nd kings before<br/>
that time. Hence from this time for-<br/>
ward it become customary whenever<br/>
the festival of the Sókan was observed<br/>
in the palace of the second king to have<br/>
royal processions for displaying the in-<br/>
signed of royalty, and the drums of<br/>
victory; but they were held on the<br/>
New years holidays, and were not at-<br/>
tended with the highest ceremonies,<br/>
and there was no mount Krilat, and<br/>
no great ado in advertising the ceremo-<br/>
nies. This became the standard of the<br/>
Sókan festivals in the palace of the<br/>
second king for all the Práong Chóws<br/>
of the palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But as regards the palace of the first<br/>
king there were no princes or princesses<br/>
of suitable age for receiving the honors<br/>
of the Sókan until the year of the cock,<br/>
3d of the decade. civil era 1223,<br/>
Christian era 1862. In that year as<br/>
Prachów look t'o princess Ying<br/>
yowálák had attained to a suitable age<br/>
for receiving the Sókan, the royal<br/>
council of Princes, nobles, and lords<br/>
bowed before His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
king and begged that the king would<br/>
be pleased to have a great and com-<br/>
plete Sókan festival such as has not<br/>
been held for more than fifty years—<br/>
pleading that witnesses of the complete<br/>
Sókan so long since had now become<br/>
very few, and that the few living have<br/>
forgotten much of what they then saw,<br/>
and that the vast majority of the peo-<br/>
ple now living in Siam have never<br/>
seen the like. For these reasons we<br/>
do humbly entreat His Majesty the<br/>
Supreme king to grant this our request<br/>
that it may be for example for the time<br/>
come.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whereupon the king gave command<br/>
to prepare for a great Sókan festival.<br/>
Preparations were accordingly made<br/>
complete in all their parts excepting<br/>
there was no mount Krilat.—At the<br/>
time of that festival occasion there<br/>
were added to it the ceremonies for<br/>
giving the name Chowfa Choola<br/>
Longkorn bawdin t'ará t'ép'áyom<br/>
kôot mahá boorôotáyá rátáná rátchará<br/>
wiwongs wára p'ongs bawri p'át siri<br/>
wat'á nárách'á kôoman, to His royal<br/>
Highness, engraved on a gold plate and<br/>
by this H. R. H. was promoted to the<br/>
rank of Sómdetch Prá Chów look-ya<br/>
t'ô Chówfa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These Sókan festivals were held in<br/>
the 4th month—the year of the cock<br/>
civil era 1223, Christian era March<br/>
1862.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The custom of the royal Sókan were<br/>
established as above described. In the<br/>
year of the dog there were three chil-<br/>
dren of His Majesty who attained to<br/>
the age suitable for receiving the hon-<br/>
ors of the Sókan. There names were<br/>
Práong Chów Ying TáksInáchá, Prá-<br/>
ong Chów Ying Sómswáttce, and Prá-<br/>
ong Ying Brá P'ák-sawn. It was the<br/>
pleasure of His Majesty the king to<br/>
have these three princesses receive the<br/>
Sókan with all the usual ceremonies<br/>
as beforetime. The festival for the<br/>
three princesses was held in the 4th<br/>
month the year of dog, 4th of the de-<br/>
cade, civil era 1224, Christian era 1863.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the 4th month of the same year<br/>
there was a Sókan in the palace of the<br/>
2nd king for a Práong Chów. It was<br/>
a great festival with all the customary<br/>
ceremonies and plays, and the mount<br/>
Krilat on a small scale similar to<br/>
the one before in the year of the rat<br/>
4th of the decade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this, coming down to the year<br/>
of the rat, 6th of the decade there<br/>
were two Práong Chóws children of<br/>
His Majesty the Supreme king who had<br/>
arrived at the age for the Sókan. There<br/>
names were Báktará p'ímon p'áráná,<br/>
and Mahá Bhadhorn. His Majesty<br/>
having had an example in a Siamese<br/>
king of the 26th reign named Prá-<br/>
Rama Tiba[?]n Máha Rach's Prása[?]<br/>
Tawang, who had his son Práong<br/>
Chòw-In receive the Sôkan at a royal<br/>
country palace on the Island of Bân-<br/>
lane, determined to revive that old<br/>
style; and inasmuch as His Majesty<br/>
was pleased to give command that at<br/>
this time the festival of the Sôkan<br/>
should be held at His Majesty's palace<br/>
at Petchaburee according to that an-<br/>
cient custom. This took place in the<br/>
2nd month of the year of the rat, 6th<br/>
of the decade, civil era 1226, Christian<br/>
era 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now according to the old and pro-<br/>
per custom of the Sókan no P'ra-ong<br/>
Chôws, who were not of the rank of<br/>
Chôwfa had a right to the higher hon-<br/>
nors of the festival. But inasmuch as<br/>
the old custom had been innovated in<br/>
the reign of P'ra-bât Sômdelet P'ra<br/>
pôôt'j-yâwif'a Chôôlalôke as also in the<br/>
reign of P'ra-bât Sômdet P'ra-pôôt'i<br/>
lot la nâp'alei in the palace of the 2nd<br/>
king when there were great proces-<br/>
sions for the Sókan made for P'ra-ong<br/>
Chôws exceeding the old custom on<br/>
two occasions, as also on two occasions<br/>
in the present reign in the palace of<br/>
the 2nd king, going beyond the cus-<br/>
tom of old time, and thus establishing<br/>
a precedent for the future, it became<br/>
a matter of necessity that in the-palace<br/>
of the Supreme king that that preced-<br/>
ent should be followed. And this is<br/>
because the honors conferred by the<br/>
Sókan are regarded of the first import-<br/>
ance, and the people who desire to<br/>
witness the ceremonies are many, and<br/>
they wait with intense interest for the<br/>
time of the Sókan festivals to arrive;<br/>
So that they cannot quite trust that<br/>
the time will come of course, but feel<br/>
impelled to beg of the king to com-<br/>
mand the ceremonies to be held.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now at this time Prince Sômdet<br/>
P'ra Chôw lôôk t'o Chôwfa Choo-<br/>
longkorn, having attained to a suita-<br/>
ble age for receiving the Sókan, being<br/>
full 12 years of age, and having pre-<br/>
viously been favored with various and<br/>
extraordinary honors equal in every<br/>
respect to those conferred formerly on<br/>
the two Chôwfas, sons of P'ra-bât<br/>
Sômdet P'ra pôôt'i lot la nâp'alei, it<br/>
seemed proper that this prince should<br/>
receive likewi-e the same most ex-<br/>
traordinary honors of the Sókan on<br/>
this occasion as were conferred on<br/>
those two former occasions that they<br/>
should stand for prveodents in the<br/>
future time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now all who shall be called out to<br/>
aid in this festival occasion let them<br/>
perform their several parts on this<br/>
festival occasion with full heart and<br/>
strength, thinking that they thus hon-<br/>
or then lords and masters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And as concerning all foreigners<br/>
who have not become acquainted with<br/>
the history of this Sókan festival, we<br/>
beg that they will not murmur the<br/>
thought that all this ado is of no ad-<br/>
vantage to the country and the king-<br/>
dom, saying it obliges the people in<br/>
great numbers to spend their time<br/>
and strength for nought, and calls<br/>
them out in great multitudes to<br/>
squander their time in witnessing it.<br/>
We beg that they will suspend such<br/>
judgment upon the festival, for it is<br/>
regarded as of great importance in the<br/>
kingdom as may be seen by the sketch<br/>
given of it above. It is a long stand-<br/>
ing custom.—But such extraor-dinary<br/>
occasions do not occur often. There<br/>
are not usually more than one or two in<br/>
a single reign. If we should now cut<br/>
off the custom and have no more of<br/>
the festivals the people, informed in<br/>
Siamese history, would feel exceeding<br/>
bad and would murmur out their grief<br/>
by saying that the Supreme king fav-<br/>
ors so highly European custom, that<br/>
he casts away our venerable instit-<br/>
utions very easily. Hence we conclude<br/>
that it is suitable that we should hold<br/>
on to our ancient customs so that they<br/>
shall not vanish away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now as regards the present occa-<br/>
sion for the Sókan festival, let the<br/>
people in great multitudes bring their<br/>
offerings of gold and silver, and pre-<br/>
sent them to the son of the king at<br/>
the Sókan, according to the ancient<br/>
custom from time immemorial. All<br/>
who comply with this notification are<br/>
expected to do it as a free will offer-<br/>
ing, and not as being compelled by<br/>
any command of the king; and they<br/>
will thus show themselves pleased<br/>
with the Prince who is to be the sub-<br/>
ject of the Sókan. The king makes no<br/>
demands of the kind. Whoever is<br/>
pleased to aid as above intimated or<br/>
not let him act freely. To refuse to<br/>
aid will not be regarded as any offence.<br/>
Whoever shall be pleased to make any<br/>
offerings to the prince on the occasion<br/>
will be remembered with gratitude;<br/>
and whenever he shall have any festiv-<br/>
al for cutting the top-knots of his<br/>
own children or grand children let him<br/>
inform the king of, and he will make<br/>
presents to the subject of the festival<br/>
in return according to the old custom<br/>
of reciprocity on such occasions.<br/>
Therefore let no one misunderstand or<br/>
murmur about this matter, as there<br/>
can be no good cause for it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Given on Thursday the 2nd month<br/>
the 11th day of the waxing moon, the<br/>
year of the cow, 7th of the decade<br/>
civil era 1227, it being 5342 days<br/>
since the beginning of the present reign,<br/>
corresponding with the Christian era<br/>
Dec. 28th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
The Weather.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having had scarcely a drop of rain<br/>
since the 5th of February, the heavens<br/>
have become brass over our heads and<br/>
the earth iron under o it feet, and<br/>
the heat quite oppressive from 10 a. m.<br/>
to 4 p. m. There were signs of rain<br/>
yesterday for the first time in seven<br/>
weeks. It was quite exciting to see<br/>
the elements gathering their forces for<br/>
a storm—the heavens covered with<br/>
black clouds—thunder and windstrug-<br/>
gling, as it were, against each other—<br/>
the one bent upon bringing the rain<br/>
down, the other on driving it away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wind was completely victorious,<br/>
Not a drop of rain, so far as we could<br/>
see, fell upon our great metropolis in<br/>
all the bluster—It is very likely that<br/>
a small portion of Siam a little to East<br/>
of us had a shower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Generally our evenings and morn-<br/>
ings are delightfully temperate—al-<br/>
most paradisaical. And latterly our<br/>
moonlight evenings have been so en-<br/>
chantingly sweet that one feels it hard<br/>
to retire until midnight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We noticed last evening a magnific-<br/>
ent circle about the moon when she was<br/>
on the meridian. It was at least 60<br/>
degrees in diameter. The inner part<br/>
of it was very nearly like a rainbow<br/>
in color and the outer white like fleecy<br/>
clouds, but of uniform size of a degree<br/>
or more, most beautifully blending it-<br/>
self into the blue ether.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The longer we live in Siam the<br/>
more are we impressed with the con-<br/>
viction that God has spared no pains<br/>
in making the climate of her vast<br/>
prairielands, under tidal influence, one<br/>
of the most salubrious and delightful<br/>
in the world, and her soil without a<br/>
a parallel for its richness and inex-<br/>
haustableness. It is to our minds really<br/>
exhilarating to think of the beauty<br/>
and glory to which Siam would at-<br/>
tain, under a strong christian govern-<br/>
ment continued for scores of years,<br/>
and that such a time is surely coming<br/>
for her, however slow in its approach<br/>
and however far it may be in the<br/>
future.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the king left on Sunday<br/>
morning the 23rd, and is expected to<br/>
return in time to send his mail by the<br/>
next "Chow Phya". In consequence<br/>
of His Majesty's absence as also of<br/>
H. E. Chow Phya Kalahom, the<br/>
Prime Minister, we are quite shut out<br/>
from getting news from head quarters.<br/>
The royal court has, for the time be-<br/>
ing, been removed to Petchaburee<br/>
some 80 miles distant, and there is no<br/>
telegraphic line or railroad or other<br/>
rapid steam connection between the<br/>
two seats of government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to be able to inform<br/>
our readers, that we have in hand a<br/>
communication from the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment for our Siamese paper, receiv-<br/>
ed before His Majesty's departure, as-<br/>
suring us that the English Company<br/>
who requested the privilege of making a<br/>
Telegraphic line through Siamese terri-<br/>
tory to connect Calcutta, Maulmain and<br/>
Bangkok with Singapore, will certainly<br/>
obtain their petition; and that the gov-<br/>
ernment has great hopes of the usefulness<br/>
of that line. Surely this looks quite<br/>
encouraging for Siam as well as for<br/>
all this Eastern world. Let us rejoice<br/>
in the hope of Siam's continual pro-<br/>
gress in improvements. We hope in<br/>
our next to give a translation of that<br/>
interesting document.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fright at the Royal Mint.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of our readers may, perhaps,<br/>
recollect that one of the correspondents<br/>
of the "Recorder," some three weeks<br/>
since, inquired "if we were never to get<br/>
any more of the new flat Ticals," and at<br/>
the same time complaining that "the old<br/>
bullets have mostly become so worn<br/>
by use that it is very difficult to pass<br/>
them." We have quite recently been<br/>
surprised to hear that that very short<br/>
article of the most simple and plain<br/>
English has been so misread that it<br/>
created a wonderful hubbub at the<br/>
royal Mint. It was understood to<br/>
complain of the flat Ticals as being<br/>
difficult to pass on account of their<br/>
spurious qualities. What a pity it is<br/>
that the Siamese government has not<br/>
provided herself with correct readers<br/>
of the Queen's English (not of the<br/>
King's) from her own sons! And<br/>
since, even now, after fifteen years of<br/>
the most enlightened reign Siam has<br/>
ever had, she has scarcely one such in<br/>
any grade from the throne to the dung-<br/>
hill. How strange it is that she does not<br/>
more thoroughly awake to a sense of<br/>
the importance of having many such<br/>
men!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now since her best English schol-<br/>
ars made that gross mistake in reading<br/>
those few words in our paper, one of<br/>
the men concerned in the Mint, we<br/>
learn, was suddenly thrust into prison<br/>
last Sunday morning under the impres-<br/>
sion that he, probably, had been en-<br/>
gaged in making the flat Ticals of spu-<br/>
rious material as was supposed to be<br/>
complained of in the article alluded to,<br/>
and several of the overseers of the<br/>
Mint have been frightened almost out<br/>
of their wits lest terrible judgment<br/>
shall fall upon them also in the awful<br/>
confusion. They have dispatched mes-<br/>
senger after messenger to enquire of us<br/>
into the certain meaning of the article<br/>
in question. And we have been very<br/>
unhappy to quiet their fears with the<br/>
assurance that there is not a word of<br/>
complaint in it of the new flat Ticals,<br/>
nor indeed of the old "bullets" as to<br/>
their genuineness, but simply an en-<br/>
quiry why govername t does not issue<br/>
more of the new and far preferable<br/>
coin.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Be in Earnest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Be in earnest! God who formed thee,<br/>
And with might and honor armed thee,<br/>
Ne’er designed that thou should’st squander<br/>
Life in vanity, or wander,<br/>
Childlike, after bursting bubbles.<br/>
Made to buffet stormy troubles—-<br/>
Made to breast the stormy billow—-<br/>
Made to battle in the sternest—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Be in earnest.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Be in earnest! What thou doest,<br/>
What thou plannest or pursuest,<br/>
Plan, pursue and do with spirit,<br/>
Never care, though thou inherit<br/>
Glory dimmer than the brother'e—-<br/>
Power weaker than another's—<br/>
Use thy power—-use it rightly;<br/>
And in faith, nor prize it lightly,<br/>
And where'er they power thou turnest,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Be in earnest.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Be in earnest in thy feelings;<br/>
If in Sorrow's wept appealings<br/>
Thou impulsively respondest—<br/>
If thou cherish hopes the fondest—<br/>
If in Friendship thou confidest-—<br/>
Or if Folly thou deridest-—<br/>
If thou battle with Aggression—-<br/>
If thou struggle with Oppression-—<br/>
If with Patriot's flame thou burnest-—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Be in earnest!
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Calcutta.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. C. Markham has completed his<br/>
report on the Chinchoua cultivation of<br/>
Ceylon. The experiment has proved<br/>
quite successful. He brings strong<br/>
testimony to show that the plants ac-<br/>
climatised in India are likely greatly<br/>
to excel the original ones of South<br/>
America in the yield of alkaloids. The<br/>
young prunings yield large quantities<br/>
of quinine, and the quantity of alka-<br/>
oids is increased by the growth of moss<br/>
round the stem. Moreover strips of<br/>
bark can be continually taken from the<br/>
same tree without injuring it, if only<br/>
the wounds are at once covered by<br/>
moss. The red bark of India and<br/>
Ceylon will fetch as high a price as the<br/>
Caliaya of Bolivia, the most valuable<br/>
of all the barks, or 4s. a pound. In the<br/>
chinchoua bark there are 4 febrifuge<br/>
substances found in proportions vary-<br/>
ing with the species of plant., viz.;<br/>
quinine, quinidine, cinchonidine and<br/>
cinchonine. The best chemists state<br/>
that quinidine and cinchonidine are<br/>
nearly equal in their effects to quinine,<br/>
although the latter only is of any com-<br/>
mercial value at present, but it is of<br/>
the greatest importance to get rid of<br/>
the prejudice and error on this point.<br/>
For this purpose a commission of<br/>
medical men should be appointed to<br/>
report upon the subject. The estimat-<br/>
ed number of plants in Ceylon is<br/>
550,000 and of those on the Neilgher-<br/>
ries 776,000. So that, with the plants<br/>
in various stations in India, the cul-<br/>
tivation has now reached about a mil-<br/>
lion and a half since the first plants were<br/>
introduced six years ago. Private<br/>
enterprise has taken up the cultivation<br/>
which promises to add enormously to<br/>
the wealth of India, while it reduces<br/>
the almost prohibitory cost of quinine<br/>
to the poor.—Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Saigon.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The official Courrier of Saigon is<br/>
enthusiastic on the progress of the<br/>
French settlement of "Cochin-China."<br/>
The revenue has risen from 1,344,000<br/>
francs in 1862 to 4,063,000 francs last<br/>
year and an estimate of 973,000 francs<br/>
more this year. Most of the increase<br/>
seems to be due to the tax on villages,<br/>
the sale of land, and the harbour and<br/>
customs dues. We are not told what<br/>
the settlement costs France, but the<br/>
expense must be in the same propor-<br/>
tion as that of Algeria, for there is a<br/>
proportionally large military force.<br/>
The writer says "Aucune question<br/>
n'intéresse plus l'avenir de la colonie<br/>
que l'instruction publique. La grand-<br/>
eur future de la Cochin-chine dépend<br/>
de la conquête morale de l'élément<br/>
annamite." In the three provinces of<br/>
the settlement the only large towns<br/>
are Saigon and Cholon which have a<br/>
united population of more than 60,000<br/>
souls. A sum of 20,000 francs has<br/>
been assigned for an Exhibition of<br/>
industry and agriculture. It is a pity<br/>
that an opposition paper is not allow-<br/>
ed in Saigon any more than in Paris,<br/>
that we might know exactly how much<br/>
of the Courrier's picture is real.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Commercial Interests
in China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are particularly pleased to find<br/>
by the English papers, that the ac-<br/>
counts which India has for some months<br/>
past received of the piracies opposed<br/>
to our trade at some of the ports of<br/>
China, have also reached England; and<br/>
it is stated that "the condition of our<br/>
China trade will be brought before<br/>
Parliament on an early day after its<br/>
opening." This is a circumstance<br/>
which has long pleaded for such a dis-<br/>
cussion and investigation; and possi-<br/>
bly no more opportune period has<br/>
occurred, than now, when having the<br/>
tried and tactical man, Sir Rutherford<br/>
Alcock, on the spot as our Envoy at<br/>
the Court of Pekin; under whose<br/>
cogitations and energy the serious<br/>
matter may be expected to be prac-<br/>
tically dealt with. All that is gen-<br/>
erally known, even in India, consists<br/>
of occasional and isolated newspaper<br/>
paragraphs; which information simply<br/>
amounts to the concise fact, that our<br/>
trade along the whole seaboard of<br/>
China is now and again seriously<br/>
damaged by pirates, over whom we<br/>
seem to have no power, and at whose<br/>
mercy our coasting vessels are left<br/>
completely. It need not of course be<br/>
for an instant doubted, that such an<br/>
injurious as well as inglorious state of<br/>
things cannot be left uninterfered with,<br/>
and such a blot on the name of Eng-<br/>
land be allowed to continue. The<br/>
questions on the subject are, how and<br/>
why does it continue? This seems to<br/>
be the great and leading fact for en-<br/>
quiry—-in connection with which the<br/>
Home News suggests as queries; "Is<br/>
our naval power in these waters suf-<br/>
ficient to protect our commerce? If it<br/>
be, what is the cause of its failure to<br/>
do so? Does it arise from injudicious<br/>
distribution, or want of vigilance?" It<br/>
may be thought that these are pro-<br/>
blems of very easy solution, by author-<br/>
ity on the spot—-and, assuredly, the<br/>
sooner they are solved, and satisfac-<br/>
torily so, the better for English trade<br/>
in that locality, and the more cre-<br/>
ditable to the national character. By<br/>
latest accounts from the country, it<br/>
would appear that piracy has reached<br/>
such a fearful height of impunity in<br/>
the Chinese and Malayan seas, "that<br/>
it is now carried on openly, in day-<br/>
light, and without the least shadow of<br/>
disguise." As far as we can judge<br/>
from the eastern intelligence which<br/>
reaches us, Japan seems to be the<br/>
great centre of attraction of the Ad-<br/>
miral's attention; and, barring the<br/>
serious matter we are descanting on,<br/>
it might be all very well to endeavour<br/>
to force an extension of an incipient<br/>
trade in that country, which there can<br/>
be no doubt will eventually become<br/>
valuable; but surely an already rich<br/>
and extensive one should not be left<br/>
unprotected in our commercial chiv-<br/>
alry at Yokohama. This conduct to<br/>
seems to us to savour of that want of<br/>
prudential philosophy, which we are<br/>
warranted to expect from great com-<br/>
mercial nations. It looks very much<br/>
like neglecting the goose, in our an-<br/>
xiety for the golden egg. Such is not<br/>
precisely complimentary to English<br/>
policy, it is true; yet it is a miniature<br/>
portrait of what is just now going on,<br/>
as above represented, with English<br/>
commerce in China, through the non-<br/>
suppression of piracy. We must hope<br/>
accordingly.—-Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Men Who Cannot Make
Speeches.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the most singular develop-<br/>
ments of the times is the appearance<br/>
in American public life of a class of<br/>
men who cannot make speeches. Thus,<br/>
we have a Lieutenant-General who,<br/>
when he is fairly cornered by the ad-<br/>
miring crowd, will make two or three<br/>
polite bows, but will not let a word<br/>
out of his mouth any more than he<br/>
would Pemberton out of Vicksburg,<br/>
or Lee out of Richmond. Gen. Sher-<br/>
man, on similar occasions, attempts<br/>
but the most meagre replies, although<br/>
he is ready and pungent enough with<br/>
his pen. Gen Thomas returns thanks,<br/>
and that is all; while the gallant Sher-<br/>
idan simply says: "excuse me boys,<br/>
you know I never make speeches.-<br/>
Boston Journal.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-We should walk through life as<br/>
through the Swiss mountains, where a<br/>
hasty word might bring down an<br/>
avalanche !
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-There are two reasons why a man<br/>
sometimes cannot get credit; one is<br/>
because he is not known; the other,<br/>
because he is [?]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Every censurer of other people<br/>
knows ten times as much ill of himself<br/>
as he does of the worst of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Regard what I am! never mind<br/>
what my father was!'' is an old Arabic<br/>
saying.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A late heavy shower of rain shewed<br/>
one ludicrous sight—an attempt to<br/>
crowd two fashionably dressed women<br/>
under one umbrella.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Our politicians say, it is sweet to die<br/>
for country, sweeter yet to live for it,<br/>
and sweeter of all to live on it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—It is easy to say “Know thyself,”<br/>
but who is to introduce you?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Most people go through life without<br/>
making the advantageous acquaintance<br/>
in question.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The crowning fact, the kingliest act<br/>
of freedom is the freeman's vote.<br/>
Whittier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A thrifty wife wonders why the men<br/>
can't do something useful. Might not<br/>
they as well amuse themselves in<br/>
smoking hams as in smoking cigars?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Swift says, when a man avers that<br/>
he is of no party, he certainly belongs<br/>
to a party, but it is one of which he is<br/>
ashamed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Many run about after happiness,<br/>
like an absent-minded man hunting<br/>
for his hat while it is on his head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—In a country churchyard we find the<br/>
epitaph—"Here lies the body of James<br/>
Robinson and Ruth, his wife;" and<br/>
underneath is the text—"Their warfare is<br/>
accomplished."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—France has had 61 queens. Misera-<br/>
ble lives they led—Two executed.<br/>
Nine died young—Seven were wid-<br/>
owed early.—Three cruelly treated.—<br/>
Three exiled.—The rest either poi-<br/>
soned or died broken hearted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A judge in Indiana threatened to<br/>
fine a lawyer for contempt of court.<br/>
"I have expressed no contempt for<br/>
the court," said he, "on the contrary,<br/>
I have carefully concealed my feelings."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Some mischievous wags one night<br/>
pulled down a turner's sign and put<br/>
it over a lawyer's door. In the morn-<br/>
ing it read, "All sorts of turning and<br/>
twisting done here."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Patrick O'Flaherty said that his<br/>
wife was very ungrateful, for "whin<br/>
I married her, she hadn't a rag to<br/>
her back, but now she is covered<br/>
with 'em."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I gave the fellow a shilling" said<br/>
Sir Walter Scott, on one occasion<br/>
when six-pence was the fee, and added,<br/>
"remember you owe me six-pence,<br/>
Pat." Said Pat, "May your honor<br/>
live till I pay you!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An honest Hibernian trundling along<br/>
a hand cart containing all his valua-<br/>
bles was accosted with—" Well,<br/>
Patrick, you are moving again I see!"<br/>
"Faith, I am," he replied, "for the<br/>
times are so hard, it's a dale cheaper<br/>
hiring hand carts than paying rent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One day the philosopher Blis<br/>
found himself in the same vessel with<br/>
a crowd of sorry scoundrals. A tem-<br/>
pest came on, and instantly the band<br/>
began to invoke the succor of the gods<br/>
"Be quiet, you wretches!" said the<br/>
sage, "if the gods perceive you are<br/>
here, we are gone."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_14 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r1b4">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MARCH 29TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r77">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r77">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>TON</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>TON</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FOR</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Atma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Watson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">683</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raa">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Katraka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">708</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra9">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r80">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">H. Luduina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Brink</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">483</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01">Holl.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Nordberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Swed.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Heng Hoi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jupiter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Conception</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Siagon</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Cobby</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">St Mary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Kroms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Creighton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">120</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rad">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r87">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Brema</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Weyhausen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb1">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8e">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rde">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Brewester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rde">
        <p class="r49">550</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rf9">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b5">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r169">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02"><b>Vessel's Name.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrived.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r02"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Destination.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r50">
        <p class="r01">Atma</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">523</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Watson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Shanghan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r01">B. C. L.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">A. M. Lawrance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">606</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Taylor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Piekenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Catherine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Tannen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Elleda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">178</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Rundberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">H. Ludwine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">Holland</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">483</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Brink</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">283</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Megerdrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Lennox Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">698</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Dobbie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Piekenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r01">Maury</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">698</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Harms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Piekenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r01">Sir Lancelot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">368</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Mc Dougall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Education in India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bring an extract from a Speech of<br/>
Sir Mumookhjee Cursetjee of Bombay,<br/>
at the Enquiry.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Education in India, till 30 years ago,<br/>
had lain dormant, and was still sur-<br/>
rounded by almost insurmountable<br/>
obstacles. Among the enlightened<br/>
class in India, the number of which<br/>
might almost be counted upon the<br/>
fingers, there was but one opinion—-<br/>
namely, that the only way to promote<br/>
the improvement of the native popula-<br/>
tion morally, intellectually, and politi-<br/>
cally was by advancing education,<br/>
male and female, in every legitimate<br/>
manner. The half enlightened class,<br/>
by their own intercourse with Europe-<br/>
ans, and by witnessing the progress<br/>
made by native youths educated in<br/>
the colleges of India, were convinced of<br/>
the advantages of education, but would<br/>
only allow their children to avail them-<br/>
selves of it to a limited extent. When<br/>
the Native Education Society of Bom-<br/>
bay—-established a quarter of a cen-<br/>
tury ago, chiefly through the exertions<br/>
of Mountstuart Elphinstone, who had<br/>
done more for India than all the other<br/>
governors put together—began its opera-<br/>
tions, many Parsees and other influen-<br/>
tial natives, fearing that the schools<br/>
would exercise undue influence over<br/>
the minds of the natives in converting<br/>
them to Christianity, withheld their<br/>
support. On becoming a director of<br/>
that society in 1838 he offered a prize<br/>
for an essay, to be written by one of<br/>
the head boys, upon female education,<br/>
but the managers decided that the sub-<br/>
ject was not suited for general ventila-<br/>
tion, and the money he had given for<br/>
the prize remained to this day unap-<br/>
propriated. Since then, however, 50<br/>
essays and hundreds of articles on the<br/>
question of female education had been<br/>
written and published in India. An<br/>
impression prevailed that as children<br/>
became more educated and enlighten-<br/>
ed they were more likely to embrace<br/>
Christianity. The topic was a very<br/>
delicate one, and perhaps he ought not<br/>
to touch on it in that assembly. He<br/>
was not a Christian himself, but the<br/>
more men's minds were enlightened<br/>
and the more they saw of life the bet-<br/>
ter, he believed, they would be able to<br/>
judge for themselves on this subject.<br/>
If any of the natives thoroughly believ-<br/>
ed that Christianity was for their good,<br/>
it was far better that they should<br/>
declare their conversion openly than<br/>
that they should remain hypocrites,<br/>
thinking one thing and doing diame-<br/>
trically the opposite.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Why do the recriminations of mar-<br/>
ried couples resemble the sound of<br/>
waves on shore? Because they are<br/>
murmurs of the tied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—He that cannot forgive others breaks<br/>
the bridge over which he must pass<br/>
himself; for every man has need to be<br/>
forgiven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Sal, what time does your folks<br/>
dine?" "Soon as you goes; that's mis-<br/>
sus' orders."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A person who tells you of the faults<br/>
of others, intends to tell others of your<br/>
faults.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C. CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
wil be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S & Co with their patronage areassure-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg<br/>
to inform that in consequence<br/>
of the decease of their friend,<br/>
PAUL SCHILL Esq. the firm<br/>
of MESSRS SCHILL, MALHERBE<br/>
& co. having entered into<br/>
liquidation and their con-<br/>
nexion with the said firm,<br/>
but for the liquidation of their<br/>
interest in the same, having<br/>
entirely ceased from the date<br/>
of 31st December 1865, the<br/>
same have formed at Bangkok<br/>
a new Import and General<br/>
Commission business under<br/>
the firm of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D HENRY & co.<br/>
into which MR. HUGO RANBER<br/>
also Partner in their Saigon<br/>
firm, has been admitted as a<br/>
Partner too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
Bordeaux, 1st January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED<br/>
would hereby inform the pub-<br/>
lic that they have a well as-<br/>
sorted stock, on hand, of all<br/>
kinds of liquids and other<br/>
merchandise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY
& CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, March 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
Union Hotel.<br/>
THE OLDEST<br/>
ESTABLISHED HOTEL<br/>
IN BANGKOK.<br/>
Billiard Tables and Bowling<br/>
Alleys are attached to the<br/>
Establishment.<br/>
P. CARTER,<br/>
Proprietor. Bangkok, 14th Jan. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_20 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
