---
linkTitle: 'May 3rd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - May 3rd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); May 3rd'
date: 2025-12-05T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 40
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, May 3rd, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 17.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Suspension of the Habeas
Corpus Act in Ireland.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With reluctance, evidently unfeigned<br/>
and deep, her Majesty's Government have<br/>
asked extraordinary powers from Parlia-<br/>
ment to enable them to stifle the Fenian<br/>
conspiracy; and, with equal reluctance,<br/>
Parliament have complied with the re-<br/>
quest. A bill for suspending the Habeas<br/>
Corpus Act in Ireland passed through<br/>
both Houses on Saturday, and immediate-<br/>
ly received the assent of the Crown. Un-<br/>
less previously repealed, it will have effect<br/>
until Sept. 1, 1866. It authorizes the<br/>
Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to apprehend<br/>
and detain until that date any persons<br/>
whom he suspects of conspiring against<br/>
her Majesty's person and Government.<br/>
Its provisions have already been put in<br/>
force against a considerable number of<br/>
persons known to the police as active<br/>
participants in an insurrectionary plot,<br/>
and the principal object for which it was<br/>
passed will by this time have been main-<br/>
ly accomplished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It had been the hope of her Majesty's<br/>
advisers, and the not unreasonable ex-<br/>
pectation of her subjects in general, that<br/>
the embryo rebellion, which adopts the<br/>
name of Fenianism, would have been<br/>
crushed by a calm but vigorous enforce-<br/>
ment of the ordinary powers of law; nor<br/>
had that hope been abandoned even so<br/>
short a time ago as the opening of Par-<br/>
liament. The conspiracy, however, only<br/>
staggered for a few days under the blow<br/>
which the Special Commission had inflic-<br/>
ted upon it, and very speedily resumed<br/>
its progress. The seat of its vitality is<br/>
on the other side of the Atlantic, whence<br/>
there is a constant flow into Ireland of<br/>
men, materials, and money for fomenting<br/>
rebellion. The emissaries from this cen-<br/>
tral organisation have learned, by the<br/>
experience of their convicted predeces-<br/>
sors, to pursue their treasonable calling<br/>
under such precautions as may keep them<br/>
out of reach of legal evidence; and al-<br/>
though their persons and designs are, in<br/>
many instances, well known, they are a-<br/>
ble to evade the present administrative<br/>
powers of justice. The Irish Executive,<br/>
apprehending, it would seem, an approach-<br/>
ing outbreak, but precluded by Constitu-<br/>
tional restraints from acting upon the in-<br/>
formation they possess, cannot answer<br/>
for the preservation of the public peace<br/>
unless authorized by Parliament to set a-<br/>
side the customary safeguards of person-<br/>
al liberty, and to proceed against the ac-<br/>
tive organizers of insurrection on sus-<br/>
picion in default of legal evidence. The<br/>
alternative submitted to the Legislature<br/>
on Saturday last was—-a concession to the<br/>
Government of legal authority to lay<br/>
their hand at once upon suspected con-<br/>
spirators, or a collision attended with<br/>
more or less loss both of life and proper-<br/>
ty. Parliament wisely and humanely<br/>
chose a policy of restraint to one of<br/>
bloodshed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The necessity for the measure has, we<br/>
think, been made out. The Irish Gov-<br/>
ernment, it may be fairly presumed, pos-<br/>
sesses fuller information than they can<br/>
just now make public, consistently with<br/>
their purpose of rooting out this Fenian<br/>
plot. But they have told enough to con-<br/>
vince the most sceptical that serious mis-<br/>
chief is brewing, and to show clearly<br/>
enough that the ordinary power of law is<br/>
insufficient to put a stop to it. Probably<br/>
they have not been a moment too early<br/>
in their application to Parliament, for<br/>
promptitude and decision may rescue, not<br/>
only Ireland, but the enemies of her<br/>
peace, from much worse evils. A clean<br/>
sweep of the paid emissaries who have<br/>
spread themselves over the island, and<br/>
who, by a lavish expenditure of the funds<br/>
with which they are supplied from vari-<br/>
ous sources, and by delusive promise of<br/>
assistance, are busy in beguiling an ignor-<br/>
ant peasantry and in seducing soldiers<br/>
from their allegiance, will be an act of<br/>
mercy as well as of executive vigour. It<br/>
will instantly stay the current of sedition-<br/>
mongers from beyond the seas, and, in all<br/>
likelihood, will turn it back to the quart-<br/>
er whence it comes. Meanwhile the<br/>
dupes of conspiracy will wake up to the<br/>
reality of the case, and will find that the<br/>
anticipation that had been so carelessly<br/>
but so confidently entertained by them<br/>
were but a feverish dream. Then, when<br/>
the dark shadow of Fenianism has slunk<br/>
away into the final retreat of lying vanities,<br/>
the same Parliament, we trust, that has<br/>
suspended the Habeas Corpus Act will set<br/>
itself earnestly to the much more difficult,<br/>
but also far nobler, work of conquering<br/>
disaffection, and by wise, kindly, and apt<br/>
legislation, will render future conspiracy<br/>
impossible.—-ILL. LON. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Peabody Benefaction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The announcement, two or three weeks<br/>
since, of Mr. Peabody's second donation<br/>
of £100,000 "for the benefit of the poor<br/>
of London," which, added to that bestow-<br/>
ed in March, 1862, making a minimum<br/>
of a quarter of a million sterling, has been<br/>
followed by the publication of that gent-<br/>
leman's letter to the trustees of his fund.<br/>
The scale of munificence upon which the<br/>
American banker has dispensed his boun-<br/>
ty is so vast that it dwarfs the most ex-<br/>
travagant limits of eulogy, and makes us<br/>
"beggars in thanks." The practical wis-<br/>
dom, however, which he has displayed in<br/>
indicating his wishes as to how the money<br/>
may be most usefully employed, is quite<br/>
worthy of the gift. He authorizes his<br/>
trustees to use any portion of the fund<br/>
in building lodging-houses for the labour-<br/>
ing poor; but, as the difficulty of obtain-<br/>
ing sites within the area of the metropolis<br/>
becomes greater every year, he desires<br/>
that eligible freehold sites may be sought<br/>
out and secured at a distance from the<br/>
Royal Exchange not exceeding ten miles.<br/>
He suggests that the most economical<br/>
arrangements procurable might be made<br/>
with railroad companies "for the convey-<br/>
ance of working people at stated hours<br/>
to and from London at such moderate<br/>
fares as will come within their means."<br/>
Should dwellings erected by the trustees<br/>
be remote from schools, they are to be at<br/>
liberty to set apart space adjacent to the<br/>
buildings, and to erect thereon school-<br/>
houses for the children of the families<br/>
holding tenements; but the course of<br/>
education to be given in such schools is<br/>
to be strictly of an elementary and liter-<br/>
ary character, from which all sectarian<br/>
influences and denominational jealousies<br/>
must be rigidly excluded. These school-<br/>
rooms, Mr. Peabody hints, furnished with<br/>
books, periodicals, and newspapers for<br/>
such as might choose to attend, might be<br/>
open some hours during the evening; and<br/>
popular and scientific lectures might be<br/>
introduced occasionally, "at a charge, if<br/>
any, merely sufficient to defray necessary<br/>
expenses." He recommends that where<br/>
the lodging-houses are situated at an in-<br/>
convenient distance from good markets,<br/>
apartments, either within or near the<br/>
buildings, be provided, "in which the<br/>
tenants may organize co-operative stores<br/>
for supplying themselves with coal and<br/>
other necessary articles for their own<br/>
consumption;" and he desires that his<br/>
trustees will, after the year 1868, publish<br/>
annually in the London newspapers, in<br/>
the month of February, "a report of the<br/>
progress in buildings (if any should be<br/>
commenced), with an account of receipts<br/>
and expenditures, with the various items<br/>
attending the management of the fund."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One is at a loss which most to admice<br/>
—the liberality which conferred the gift<br/>
or the thoughtfulness which has traced<br/>
out the channels through which the ben-<br/>
efits of it to the London poor may flow.<br/>
There is, however, one circumstance con-<br/>
nected with the suggested manner of ex-<br/>
pending it which will add incalculably to<br/>
its worth. The buildings erected by<br/>
means of this fund, and tenanted by<br/>
honest and industrious poor, will pay a<br/>
considerable sum total in the shape of<br/>
rent; and the constantly and progres-<br/>
sively increasing income so accruing will,<br/>
in its turn, be laid out in the same way.<br/>
The founder of the original fund evid-<br/>
ently views it with satisfaction in this<br/>
light. "It will act more powerfully in<br/>
future generations than in the present;<br/>
it is intended to endure for ever." His<br/>
trustees fully recognize this characteristic<br/>
of the two donations committed to their<br/>
management. "The most moderate re-<br/>
turn, they say in their reply to the do-<br/>
nor, "from so large an investment will<br/>
furnish a permanent income, the judici-<br/>
ous expenditure of which must in time<br/>
exert an irresistible influence in raising<br/>
the character of that class of houses<br/>
which are now occupied by the labouring<br/>
population in all parts of the metropolis;<br/>
and thus to a remote posterity your name<br/>
will continue to be held in grateful re-<br/>
membrance by the people of London as<br/>
the benefactor of the poor on a scale<br/>
hitherto unequalled in this or any other<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Peabody will live, we trust, to see<br/>
some of the moral results to be expected<br/>
from his liberality. He has employed the<br/>
most efficient means within his reach<br/>
to attract public attention to a matter<br/>
which has been suffered too long to lie<br/>
comparatively unheeded, and the neglect<br/>
of which has already proved to be a pro-<br/>
lific source of evils, physical, social, and<br/>
moral.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(From our own Correspondent.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
PARIS, Thursday, Feb. 15.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Senaté having last week given a<br/>
general approval to the Address in reply<br/>
to the Emperor's speech, has since oc-<br/>
cupied itself in discussing the various<br/>
paragraphs seriatim. The notable incid-<br/>
ent arising out of this debate was the<br/>
ludicrous tirade against England and<br/>
everything English indulged in by the<br/>
well-known anglophobist, the Marquis de<br/>
Boissy. Apropos of the meeting of the<br/>
French and English fleets at Cherbourg,<br/>
the Marquis gave expression to a feeling<br/>
which is more common over here than is<br/>
generally supposed. He ridiculed the<br/>
notion of there being anything like real<br/>
sympathy between the navies of France<br/>
and England. "Are the two navies,"<br/>
exclaimed he, "friends or foes? Friends,<br/>
never! Foes, certainly! This is the feeling<br/>
they have in their hearts." The crot-<br/>
chety Marquis saw great reason for<br/>
rejoicing that England had what he be-<br/>
lieved to be two grand dangers ahead—-a<br/>
war with America and a Fenian revo-<br/>
lution—-and proclaimed that he wished to<br/>
hold up PERFIDE Albion to the scorn of<br/>
all nations, and to rouse every civilized<br/>
Power against her. The president called<br/>
the speaker to order, and the audience<br/>
expressed its disapprobation; neverthe-<br/>
less, the Marquis persevered until he had<br/>
fired off his last shot, when he resumed<br/>
his seat with an air of triumph. During<br/>
the discussion of the particular paragraph<br/>
of the address relative to Mexico, Mar-<br/>
shal Forey startled his fellow-senators by<br/>
proclaiming it as his opinion that not only<br/>
ought the return of the French troops to<br/>
be delayed, but that fresh reinforcements<br/>
should be sent out in aid of the Emperor<br/>
Maximilian. The Government, as<br/>
may be supposed, lost not a moment in<br/>
disavowing all that the Marshal had said<br/>
upon this latter point. The Roman ques-<br/>
tion was the next important matter that<br/>
came up for discussion, and Pius IX.'s<br/>
friends mustered strong and lauded the<br/>
Papal administration to the skies, and<br/>
abused Victor Emmanuel and his ad-<br/>
mirers in good set terms. This brought<br/>
forward M. Rouher, who, after expres-<br/>
sing his confidence in the good faith of<br/>
the Italian Government, remarked that<br/>
France would not cease to keep in view<br/>
the reconciliation of the Pope with the<br/>
kingdom of Italy. The Address was on<br/>
Wednesday unanimously adopted.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Austria.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The draught of the address in reply<br/>
to the Emperor's speech at the opening<br/>
of the Hungarian Diet has been brought<br/>
forward in the Lower House. The ad-<br/>
dress expresses confidence in the Sove-<br/>
reign, and congratulates his Majesty on<br/>
the Constitutional sentiments contained<br/>
in the speech from the throne and on his<br/>
recognition of the continuity of rights.<br/>
The address accepts the Pragmatic Sanc-<br/>
tion as the basis of negotiations, and<br/>
points out that the safety of Austria and<br/>
the independence of Hungary are not<br/>
antagonistic. It announces that a special<br/>
bill will be prepared for the settlement<br/>
of matters common to Hungary and the<br/>
rest of the monarchy, and declares the<br/>
readiness of the Diet to negotiate with<br/>
the other provinces, while reserving the<br/>
independence of each. It also states<br/>
that the desire of the Diet is to bring about<br/>
the real restoration of the Constitution,<br/>
and expresses hopes that his Majesty will<br/>
speedily be crowned as King of Hungary.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Spain.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Panama state that Peru<br/>
had formed an offensive and defensive<br/>
alliance with Chili, and had declared war<br/>
against Spain. Five Peruvian vessels of<br/>
war had sailed with orders to join the<br/>
Chilian squadron and commence hostili-<br/>
ties immediately. The Spanish fleet had<br/>
thoroughly blockaded Valparaiso, and<br/>
was expected to make an attack on that<br/>
city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In consequence of the serious declara-<br/>
tions contained in the Spanish Red Book<br/>
respecting the policy of Spain towards<br/>
Italy, the Cabinet of King Victor Em-<br/>
manuel have despatched an energetic note<br/>
to Madrid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By way of New York we have news<br/>
from Chili and Peru. It is to the effect<br/>
that an alliance against the Spaniards had<br/>
been formed by these two States.<br/>
The blockade of the Chilian ports,<br/>
with the exception of Valparaiso and<br/>
Calders, had been raised. Off the latter<br/>
port there had been a fight, in which she<br/>
Spaniards got the worst of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
United States.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President, in reply to a delegation<br/>
of coloured men, who requested that<br/>
negroes should be allowed the right of<br/>
suffrage and representation, said he be-<br/>
lieved that the negroes in the south would<br/>
not be benefited by those rights, and that<br/>
the result would be a war of races. To<br/>
another delegation, who waited on him to<br/>
express satisfaction at his policy, he an-<br/>
nounced his intention to adhere to the<br/>
doctrines expressed in his annual mes-<br/>
sage ; and that, as he was not a candidate<br/>
for re-election, he could afford to do right.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The House of Representatives has pass-<br/>
ed a bill extending the privileges of the<br/>
homestead law to freedmen, and giving<br/>
eighty acres of public land in Mississippi,<br/>
Louisiana, Florida, or Arkansas, to each<br/>
settler, without distinction of color, on<br/>
payment of five dollars at the time of<br/>
settlement. Over 10,000,000 acres have<br/>
been appropriated to this purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Government having disowned the<br/>
outrage on Bagdad, the principal actors in<br/>
the affair were being arrested. The whole<br/>
blame is thrown upon General Crawford.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The New York Tribune states that<br/>
the Marquis De Moatholon and Mr.<br/>
Seward have had a final interview on<br/>
Mexican affairs, at which it was under-<br/>
stood the Emperor Napoleon had ordered<br/>
the withdrawal of all the French troops<br/>
from Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate, by a vote of 31 to 10, has<br/>
adopted the amendment to the bill for<br/>
protection in civil rights, declaring all<br/>
natives of the United States not subject<br/>
to foreign Powers, except Indians, to be<br/>
citizens, without distinction of colour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The House of Representatives had<br/>
adopted, by a majority of 120 to 46, a<br/>
resolution in favour of an amendment to<br/>
the Federal Constitution, providing that,<br/>
in allotting representatives to the several<br/>
States, according so the number of their<br/>
population, no persons excluded from the<br/>
suffrage on account of their colour shall<br/>
be reckoned among the population.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During an interview with some senators<br/>
President Johnson had declared that he<br/>
regarded the extension of the suffrage to<br/>
negroes in the district of Columbia at the<br/>
present time as a measure fraught with<br/>
evil both to whites and blacks. He had<br/>
likewise declared his aversion to any fur-<br/>
ther amendments of the Federal Con-<br/>
stitution. He added that if there were<br/>
to be any amendment—-which he did not<br/>
deem at all necessary-—he thought repres-<br/>
entatives should be allotted to States in<br/>
proportion to the aggregate number of<br/>
voters, and direct taxation should be ap-<br/>
portioned in proportion to the aggregate<br/>
amount of property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Federal debt, on Feb. 1, amount-<br/>
ed to 2,842,000,000 dollars, being an in-<br/>
crease of 17,000,000 since Jan. 1.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bombay mail has not brought news<br/>
of much interest. The apprehension of<br/>
further outbreaks on the Peshawar fron-<br/>
tier had subsided, and the assembled<br/>
troops had been ordered back to their<br/>
cantonments. It was thought, however,<br/>
that hostilities would have to be renewed<br/>
in Bhootan, as the abandoned guns had<br/>
not been restored to the English Govern-<br/>
ment in conformity with the treaty of<br/>
peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Jamaica Question.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A THIRD series of papers relating to<br/>
the disturbances in Jamaica was issued,<br/>
as a bluebook, yesterday week.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principal paper is a despatch from<br/>
Governor Eyre explanatory of the man-<br/>
ner in which Dr. Underhill's letter ob-<br/>
tained publicity in the island. In reply<br/>
to Mr. Cardwell's inquiry, Mr. Eyre<br/>
says: —"I did not direct, authorize, or in<br/>
any way sanction the publication of that<br/>
letter; nor do I know in what manner or<br/>
through whom it was made public." He<br/>
then goes on to explain that, for the pur-<br/>
pose of obtaining information to enable<br/>
him to prepare a report respecting the<br/>
letter, he found it necessary to send<br/>
copies of it to the custodes, to the minis-<br/>
ters of religion of all denominations, and<br/>
to several other persons from whom he<br/>
thought he might get useful information.<br/>
As Mr. Eyre says, considering the large<br/>
number of persons to whom Dr. Under-<br/>
hill's letter thus became known, the ma-<br/>
jority of whom were not under the con-<br/>
trol of the Government, it is not surpris-
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
ing that it soon found its way into the<br/>
public prints. Mr. Eyre flatly denies<br/>
that the letter was printed in the GAZETTE.<br/>
He contends that the publication of the<br/>
letter was the necessary consequence of<br/>
its having been sent to the Secretary of<br/>
of State, and he therefore holds that the<br/>
whole responsibility rests upon the writer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(All the forgoing articles are from the<br/>
ILL. LONDON NEWS of Feb. 17th and 24th)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tattooing.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the customs of the New Zea-<br/>
landers is particularly worthy of atten-<br/>
tion—that of tattooing. It is found in<br/>
various parts of the world, and is of very<br/>
ancient origin. Its history begins at least<br/>
with Herodotus, who informs us that both<br/>
in Thrace and Lybia, the natives were ac-<br/>
customed to puncture and color their<br/>
faces, and various parts of their bodies.<br/>
The practice of pricking different forms<br/>
on the person—-crowns, anchors, and the<br/>
like—-is still common among our soldiers<br/>
and sailors. It has been asserted that in<br/>
some of the Egyptian paintings there is a<br/>
distinct indication of tattooing on some<br/>
of the figures. It is well known that our<br/>
ancient British forefathers dyed their<br/>
bodies with wood, and painted or tattooed<br/>
them with various designs. Many savage<br/>
tribes still adhere to the custom, but it<br/>
is nowhere more prevalent than among<br/>
the New Zealanders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The word “tattoo,” by which we now<br/>
designate all those indelible devices which<br/>
have been pricked into the skin, is of<br/>
Oceanic origin, and has been traced to<br/>
the language to Tahiti. The operation<br/>
is regarded with religious veneration, as<br/>
the individual tattooed is supposed by<br/>
this means to be placed under the imme-<br/>
diate protection of a divine being. The<br/>
god of the tattoo is called Tiki, and his<br/>
worship prevails through the Oceanic<br/>
group. The images of Tiki are like most<br/>
other savage idols, chiefly remarkable for<br/>
their ferocious expression—the natives<br/>
apparently associating extreme wisdom<br/>
and power with excessive ugliness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all the Oceanic Islands, tattooing is<br/>
practised in the same manner. The in-<br/>
struments employed are neither numer-<br/>
ous nor complicated. They consist of a<br/>
pick—-a needle-like tool-—a small wooden<br/>
hammer, that serves both to drive in the<br/>
needle, and to remove the blood that<br/>
gushed out. The process is described by<br/>
the New Zealanders as “Moko,” and it is<br/>
still practised. A traveler, long resident<br/>
in New Zealand, tells us that in crossing<br/>
through a native village one morning, he<br/>
observed Tawi, one of the aborigines,<br/>
tattooing another, the son of Dire-depahi,<br/>
on the upper part of the thigh. The<br/>
operation was evidently very painful;<br/>
but it was borne with stoical patience.<br/>
The prick employed was made of the<br/>
wing-bone of a pigeon, sharpened to a<br/>
point. With this instrument, which was<br/>
ingeniously fitted into a handle, the op-<br/>
erator traced the various lines required<br/>
for the completion of the device, strik-<br/>
ing it now and again with a piece of<br/>
wood about a foot in length. The blood<br/>
flowed freely, but the patient remained<br/>
perfectly calm, supporting himself, as he<br/>
lay half erect, on his elbow. The needle<br/>
was frequently dipped into water mingled<br/>
with the juice of a tree, thus giving a<br/>
dark color, almost black, to every line.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An operation so painful and so tedious<br/>
is necessarily extended over a long period.<br/>
No man, however savage or stoical, could<br/>
submit to being tattooed from head to<br/>
foot without intervals of repose. A chief<br/>
must be thoroughly tattooed; but to ac-<br/>
complish the complete work, occupies<br/>
years. It is begun in infancy, and con-<br/>
tinued at intervals, but is seldom finished<br/>
before manhood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The artists whose business it is to tat-<br/>
too are held in great estimation. They<br/>
are assigned a high social rank, and are<br/>
well paid for their labour. Some of them<br/>
exhibit very considerable ability in the<br/>
design and execution of the devices which<br/>
they imprint on the skin of their patients.<br/>
They are generally of what might be<br/>
called an ornamental character, although<br/>
the effect produced scarcely merits the<br/>
term. Scroll-work, geometrical figures,<br/>
and the like, are principally employed;<br/>
fruits, flowers, or animals are rarely at-<br/>
tempted. A recent traveler expresses<br/>
himself as fully convinced that were<br/>
some of these native artists placed under<br/>
proper instruction, they would take no<br/>
mean rank among the painters and sculp-<br/>
tors of Europe.—-THE FRIEND.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}<br/>
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS<br/>
—-Captain Winner once recieved a<br/>
sharp answer from a negro which will<br/>
bear repeating. The black man had<br/>
long been acquainted with him, gene-<br/>
rally helping him load his vessel. In<br/>
the course of a conversation one day<br/>
Winner accidentally remarked that he<br/>
was a Christian. “You a Christian!”<br/>
said the darkey, in astonishment,<br/>
“Law’s a mighty massy I’d never found<br/>
it out in the world if you hadn’t told<br/>
me.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
May 3rd 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Provinces & States
of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of our correspondents, under<br/>
date of the 10th ult., propounded to<br/>
us two important questions, for the<br/>
purpose of eliciting information now<br/>
peculiarly needed by the foreign com-<br/>
munity and the several governments<br/>
in treaty relations with this country,<br/>
concerning the several States and de-<br/>
pendencies of Siam. The first ques-<br/>
tion is—-How many Provinces are<br/>
there? and the second-—What are their<br/>
relations to the central government?<br/>
We had studied the general subject<br/>
involved in these questions a long while<br/>
before the questions were propounded<br/>
to us, but much more carefully since.<br/>
From what we had learned before and<br/>
have recently added to our stock of<br/>
knowledge touching this matter, we<br/>
will now venture an attempt to answer<br/>
the questions, only promising, that<br/>
while we think our answer will be<br/>
found in the main correct, we cannot<br/>
flatter ourselves that it will not con-<br/>
tain some, and perhaps, many mistakes,<br/>
for one of the most difficult things to<br/>
be done in this country is to obtain<br/>
perfectly accurate information on sub-<br/>
jects relating to Siamese territory and<br/>
government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The civil government of Siam<br/>
is mainly divided between two Prime<br/>
Ministers—-viz.-—Chôw P'raya Sré-<br/>
suriwôngs t'ôh Sâmuhâ P'râ Kâlahôme<br/>
and Chôw P'râya P'oot'ârap'eiwat'nôh<br/>
Sâmuhâ Nayôk. Theformer is regard-<br/>
ed as being on the right hand, and the<br/>
latter on the left of the throne-—with<br/>
the idea that the king is sitting on his<br/>
throne with his face to the east. Hence<br/>
that part of his kingdom at his right<br/>
hand is the Southern division, and that<br/>
part at his left hand is the Northern<br/>
division; and such is in fact the<br/>
general division of the kingdom be-<br/>
tween these two Prime Ministers. But<br/>
it is not strictly so, for there is another<br/>
high Minister who comes in and claims<br/>
by law as belonging to his jurisdiction<br/>
a considerable portion of Siam North<br/>
of a due line East and West of the<br/>
capital, and a very large portion South<br/>
and West. The title of this high Lord<br/>
is Chôw P'raya P'râklang. Hence there<br/>
is in fact three Noble Lords to whom<br/>
all the kingdom of Siam is apportioned<br/>
out in charge-—that is to say all the<br/>
state business appertaining to each of<br/>
these several divisions must be trans-<br/>
acted under the seal of the Lord to<br/>
whom it is assigned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The seal of Chôw P'râya Srêsuri-<br/>
wông P'râ Kâlahôme is the figure of<br/>
a kôch'sâe (an animal somewhat like<br/>
a lion but having two ivory tusks like<br/>
an elephant). The seal of Chôw P'râya<br/>
P'oot'ârap'ei Sâmuhâ Nayôk is the<br/>
figure of a lion, and the seal of Chôw<br/>
P'râya P'râklang is the figure of a lotus<br/>
flower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chôw P'râya Kâlahôme is over every<br/>
thing that concerns the military and<br/>
navy. Chôw P'râya P'oot'ârap'ei is<br/>
over all that appertains to the habita-<br/>
tions and dwellings of the people—-<br/>
numbering and classifying them—-the<br/>
appointment of magistrates among<br/>
them, and the royal treasury in general.<br/>
Chôw P'râya P'râklang is over all the<br/>
foreign interests—-as foreign corres-<br/>
pondence—-reception of ambassadors<br/>
and consuls, together with all the<br/>
business they may have with the Siam-<br/>
ese government—and all vessels of trade<br/>
both domestic and foreign-—He has<br/>
also an important charge over the Trea-<br/>
sury department, and hence that part<br/>
of his title called P'râklang. But this<br/>
charge, if we understand it correctly,<br/>
is strictly speaking, subordinate to the<br/>
Prime Minister of the Northern division.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All other departments of govern-<br/>
ment are merged into these three grand<br/>
divisions—-as for example the agricul-<br/>
tural department, having the noble<br/>
Lord Chôw P'râya P'ôulât'ape at its<br/>
head, and the department of ruling<br/>
the capital, guarding the royal palaces,<br/>
having Chôw P'râya Yômârat, the Lord<br/>
mayor, at its head, fall under the Min-<br/>
ister of the Northern division and all<br/>
their business must have the sanction<br/>
of his seal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each of the three Lords over the<br/>
three grand divisions of the govern-<br/>
ment, has a fixed number of Provinces<br/>
or States over which he exercises a<br/>
special authority and throughout which<br/>
his own particular seal is essential to<br/>
sanction all state business, and these<br/>
States are denominated, interior or in-<br/>
prop, centrally and outer. The interior
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
and central belong to Siam proper—<br/>
the outer are simply tributary States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each one of the High chiefs has his<br/>
own system of judiciary comprising<br/>
several grades of courts. Appeals may<br/>
be made from the lower to the higher<br/>
and from the highest to the supreme<br/>
tribunal, at which the king himself<br/>
is judge, or some prince or other high<br/>
officer of government, to whom the<br/>
king especially refers the case. The<br/>
latter is the usual course. Appeals from<br/>
the P'râklang's highest court must be<br/>
made to the tribunal of one or the<br/>
other of the Prime Ministers. This<br/>
we believe is "the king's high<br/>
way" for the people to obtain justice.<br/>
But it is much more pleasant to look<br/>
at it as sketched on paper than it is in<br/>
the usual experience of the people.<br/>
There are many "lions in the way"<br/>
and unlike those found by Bunyan's<br/>
pilgrim, they are unchained.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each of the three Ministers is al-<br/>
lowed by old custom (which is law)<br/>
so to manage the affairs of his juris-<br/>
diction, so that he shall be well paid<br/>
for his charge. Their salaries are<br/>
far from being adequate to their sta-<br/>
tions, and their perquisites are proba-<br/>
bly many fold more than their salaries.<br/>
It is the universal custom for the<br/>
people to lay presents at the feet of<br/>
their rulers high and low, whenever<br/>
they desire any favor from them, and<br/>
the more valuable the presents the<br/>
more sure of course are they of ob-<br/>
taining their requests. The natural<br/>
tendency of these presents is to act as<br/>
bribes, and bribing on a large scale<br/>
with all its horrible corruptions grows<br/>
out of this pernicious custom. It<br/>
must be abolished if Siam is ever to<br/>
take an honorable rank among civili-<br/>
zed nations. Her officers of govern-<br/>
ment, from the highest to the lowest<br/>
must have salaries sufficient to support<br/>
them well in the discharge of their<br/>
duties, and it must be made a high crime<br/>
for them to take any thing in the<br/>
character of a bribe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chôw P'râya Kâlahome holds a<br/>
special jurisdiction over the Western<br/>
and South Western provinces. These<br/>
are Prât'ôômât'aneô, Nâk'awn K'u'an<br/>
k'ân, Nâk'awn Séét'âmarât, Chôôm-<br/>
p'awn, Lâng-sôôan, T'alâng, P'ét-<br/>
ch'âbureô, Klawngwan, Bangtâp'an,<br/>
Takôôa-t'oông, Takôôa-pa, Kôôi,<br/>
Pran, Ch'eiya, P'at'âlôông, and Sâng-<br/>
k'lâ. He also has authority over the<br/>
outer provinces and counties on the<br/>
Malayan peninsula—viz. Pâttang, Srai,<br/>
Yaring, Kâlantan, Tringanu, Cam-<br/>
mâmand, Nawng chick, Jala, Ramarand<br/>
Ragel, on the eastern side; and on the<br/>
western side he has Kedah, Plis, and<br/>
Sâtoon &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chôw P'râya P'oot'âp'eii has special<br/>
authority over the following States at<br/>
the North, Northeast and Northwest<br/>
viz.-—Singâbureô, Sâbureô, Lôpbu-<br/>
reô, Sârabureô, Pra-ch'ei-ch'an,<br/>
Ayuthia, Nâk'awn-nayok, Prâchim,<br/>
Ch'ach'ôôang-sow, Sôôp'an, T'arong,<br/>
Bua-ch'ôôm, Ch'eitaran, Kâmpran,<br/>
Nâk'awn Râtch'asema, Prât'âbong,<br/>
Nâk'awn Siamrap, Râhââng, Ootârâ-<br/>
dit, P'itsanôôloke, Sawank'âloke,<br/>
Sôôk'ôt'ei, Kâmp'aang-p'et, P'ich'ei,<br/>
Nâk'awn Sawân, P'ichit, Mânorôm,<br/>
Ch'einât, Oot'ei, Int'âbureô, and<br/>
P'rômbureô. He has also supervis-<br/>
ion of the tributary states in northern<br/>
Cambodia, Cheangmai, Lamp'ôôn,<br/>
P'raa, Nân, Lôôang-P'râbang, Nâ-<br/>
k'awn P'ânom, Nâk'awn-ch'ôôm, and<br/>
P'asâk.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chôw P'râya P'râk'lang holds<br/>
jurisdiction in the Southeastern part of<br/>
the kingdom over the States of Ch'ân-<br/>
tabureô, Trat, R'ayawng, Ch'onbureô,<br/>
Samôôt'âprakan,-—at the North Non-<br/>
t'âbureô, and at the West Samôôt'-<br/>
songk'ram, Sâk'awnbureô, and Nâ-<br/>
k'awnch'eisôô.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He also has a general charge over<br/>
the states in Southern Cambodia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Each of the interior or inner pro-<br/>
vinces is ruled by a governor appointed<br/>
by the King of Siam without any re-<br/>
gard to hereditary descent from the<br/>
previous incumbent. The governors<br/>
are usually selected from among men<br/>
in or about the capital whom the king<br/>
delights to honor, and from such, ge-<br/>
nerally, as have been trained into gov-<br/>
ernment service as sons of nobles and<br/>
lords;—-this vein of aristocracy being<br/>
as essential to the monarchy of Siam<br/>
as to any other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The duties of each governor are to<br/>
rule the State over which he is placed<br/>
in the name of the king, taking the<br/>
supervision of all the civil affairs of<br/>
the State, administering justice to<br/>
the people, executing special demands<br/>
of the Supreme government upon the<br/>
services or the property of the people,<br/>
and to collect taxes and imposts, the<br/>
same as is done in the capital. The<br/>
usual Siamese phrase by which the<br/>
act of ruling a Province or State is<br/>
designated, is the significant one kin<br/>
muang—-literally eat the State. The<br/>
idea is that the ruler gets his liveli-<br/>
hood and wealth by that service<br/>
and from the people of the same.<br/>
There was originally, no doubt, much<br/>
more of truth than poetry in the<br/>
phrase, the great object being to get<br/>
a living with riches and honors out of<br/>
the people, and not to remove obstruc-<br/>
tions in the way of the people’s being<br/>
blessed with prosperity. But we fan-<br/>
cy that matters have been gradually<br/>
improving in this respect since the<br/>
present reign commenced; still there<br/>
remains too much reason for a literal<br/>
rendering of the phrase in regard to<br/>
many of the governors that now rule<br/>
those States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Provinces denominated central<br/>
as for example Nāk’awn Rātchāsēma,<br/>
Prattabong, Nākawn Siamrap, and<br/>
Rahāāng are usually governed by<br/>
their own hereditary chiefs and offi-<br/>
cers. The laws and customs and mode<br/>
of government in those Provinces are<br/>
much the same as at the Capital, with<br/>
but few modifications to suit their<br/>
peculiar circumstances. The control-<br/>
ling power is vested in the chief alone.<br/>
The taxes and imposts are collected<br/>
by his authority and transmitted to<br/>
the Capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The outer or tributary States of<br/>
Siam, as for example Cheang-Mai,<br/>
Lampoon, Luang Prâ bang and the<br/>
other Laos Provinces at the North,<br/>
are ruled by their own hereditary<br/>
princes who have laws and customs<br/>
peculiar to themselves. Their taxes<br/>
and imposts are collected for them-<br/>
selves alone, and not for the supreme<br/>
government at Bangkok. But the<br/>
Laos chiefs are accustomed to send an<br/>
annual tribute to the government of<br/>
Siam, and the Malayan tributary pro-<br/>
vinces are expected to send to the<br/>
supreme government a triennial tri-<br/>
bute, consisting principally of silver<br/>
and gold artificial trees of various<br/>
sizes from 3 feet to 6 feet high with<br/>
corresponding branches and leaves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the Siamese tributary States are<br/>
virtually under the Protectorate of<br/>
the King of Siam—-the king being<br/>
Lord paramount or Suzerain. When<br/>
a chief accedes to the seat of supreme<br/>
authority in any tributary State, it is<br/>
necessary that he obtain the sanction<br/>
of the Suzerain. In case the Suzer-<br/>
ain is called upon to select a chief for<br/>
any tributary State, he must make<br/>
the selection from that State and the<br/>
prince must be unanimously approv-<br/>
ed by both officers and people of the<br/>
State. Enjoying such popularity his<br/>
appointment may be confirmed by the<br/>
king of Siam, and not otherwise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Should quarrels and disputes arise<br/>
between the chief and his subordi-<br/>
nate rulers, or should they act un-<br/>
justly and make complaints against<br/>
each other, producing confusion and<br/>
anarchy, it is then the duty of His<br/>
Siamese Majesty their Suzerain to<br/>
send an army to restore peace and<br/>
punish the leader or leaders of the<br/>
trouble, whom the majority of the<br/>
officers of government and of the<br/>
people condemn. This the king does<br/>
by bringing him or them to the Capi-<br/>
tal for punishment as transported<br/>
criminals. The king does not him-<br/>
self or by proxy adjudicate in such<br/>
cases. That is done, as above inti-<br/>
mated, by the judiciary of the tribu-<br/>
tary State to which the criminals<br/>
belong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Should war be made upon a tribu-<br/>
tary State by a neighboring State not<br/>
tributary to Siam, and the govern-<br/>
ment of such a tributary State duly<br/>
inform His Majesty the king of Siam<br/>
of the matter, and request his aid<br/>
His Majesty their Suzerain will, in<br/>
such a case, feel himself under obliga-<br/>
tion to render assistance to the amount<br/>
of his ability.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Udangmejay, the present capital of<br/>
Cambodia was formerly a tributary<br/>
of Siam as Cheang Mai now is. “But<br/>
the French came and made a treaty<br/>
with the chief by which his country<br/>
has been made an independent nation<br/>
and he has become as an absolute<br/>
sovereign, or a free chief under the<br/>
mutual protectorate of the Emper-<br/>
or of France and the Monarch of<br/>
Siam. Yet even now, the chief King<br/>
of Cambodia is doing some times ac-<br/>
cording to former customs, giving in-<br/>
formation of certain affairs to the Sia-<br/>
mese authorities.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hope and trust there is<br/>
much correct and important informa-<br/>
tion in the above notes, and that all<br/>
the errors which may be found in this<br/>
our effort to answer the questions of<br/>
our correspondent will be promptly<br/>
corrected by him who is so well able<br/>
and has ever shewn himself willing<br/>
to communicate information concern-<br/>
ing Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To our Buddhist Champion.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
IN ANSWER TO ARTICLE IN No 16.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We will at the outset frankly ac-<br/>
knowledge that our antagonist has in<br/>
his last article displayed much more<br/>
tact and power at argumentation than<br/>
we had conceived it possible for him<br/>
to summon. And we are really sur-<br/>
prised to find that he, having been<br/>
educated in the temples of Siam, is so<br/>
well acquainted with the European<br/>
rules of polemic controversy. It<br/>
would almost seem that he had been<br/>
trained in a fully civilized land, and<br/>
had received lessons on argumenta-<br/>
tion from some of our distinguished<br/>
western logicians. We were particu-<br/>
larly impressed with his remarks on<br/>
the importance of arguing directly to<br/>
the point in question, and keeping out<br/>
all subjects and even words irrelevant<br/>
to that point. We fully agree with<br/>
him in the views he has so clearly and<br/>
forcibly expressed in that regard; and<br/>
it has ever been our purpose as well<br/>
as principle to discuss with him ac-<br/>
cording to that excellent rule of a<br/>
"point blank now" at the point in<br/>
question. We had flattered ourselves<br/>
that we had in the main held to that<br/>
rule in our practice, and were quite<br/>
taken aback to find that our antago-<br/>
nist was of the opposite opinion, and<br/>
was feeling himself very dishonorably<br/>
treated, not to say insulted, by what<br/>
he conceived to be our violation not<br/>
only of that good rule of logic, but al-<br/>
so of the Buddhist sacred books, in<br/>
our mode of reply to him in No 13.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now we would humbly beg his<br/>
pardon for having given him this of-<br/>
fence. It was not intended, neither<br/>
do we think that there was much rea-<br/>
son for him to judge that we did "lug<br/>
in irrelevant matter" and thus attempt<br/>
"to cover up the point" under dis-<br/>
cussion. When and where did we<br/>
"lug in the subject of lions and other<br/>
stories into our argument"? He<br/>
himself most surely "evinces a deli-<br/>
rious mind" in seeming to suppose<br/>
that all the subjects on which we<br/>
have dilated in the *Bangkok Recor-<br/>
der* for the last six months were quite<br/>
out of place because they had no<br/>
bearing upon our discussion. We can<br/>
scarcely suppress our risibility when<br/>
our royal champion gives us to<br/>
think that he felt himself hard pressed<br/>
against a wall by the *outrageous* and<br/>
quite unexpected side push he charges<br/>
us of having given him. But now<br/>
that he has come out of his cramped<br/>
quarters and is displaying uncommon<br/>
freedom and power, we feel that it is<br/>
becoming in us to be sober minded<br/>
since the Lion of Buddhism has been<br/>
so much aroused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We confess that our reply to him<br/>
on his objections to the Bible for its<br/>
simple and unscientific account of<br/>
the origin and use of the Rainbow,<br/>
was such as might seem to render us<br/>
guilty of the charge of dodging "the<br/>
question" by a "side push with irre-<br/>
levant matter." The reasons why we<br/>
took the course we did with that arti-<br/>
cle, we have already sufficiently stated<br/>
in No 13 and 15. But as we have<br/>
learned that such reasons have little or<br/>
no force in his or any other Buddhist's<br/>
mind, we feel now determined to give<br/>
him henceforth only a "fist for<br/>
fist argument" and scrupulously<br/>
avoid all appearance of "pushing him<br/>
with our side."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the exception of that one ar-<br/>
ticle which we did indeed rather rude-<br/>
ly treat, we beg to ask our antagonist<br/>
and with him all who have read our<br/>
previous replies to his objections to<br/>
the Bible, if we were not faithful in<br/>
answering nearly or quite all the<br/>
skeptical questions he propounded?<br/>
Take for instance the objections he<br/>
alleged against the Bible concerning<br/>
the account it gives of the creation<br/>
some days after the light, the rudeness<br/>
of Noah's Ark, his apparent ignor-<br/>
ance of ship-building and navigation<br/>
the want of continued miracles to<br/>
confirm the truth of Christianity, etc.<br/>
When and where did we violate that<br/>
excellent rule of logic to which our<br/>
antagonist professes to have such<br/>
high regard? So far from it, we<br/>
have heard from our friends in many<br/>
quarters that in their opinion we had<br/>
stuck too closely to that rule, and were<br/>
occupying too much space in our small<br/>
paper with arguments on points too<br/>
plain to require an argument.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the course of our reasoning, we<br/>
have had occasion to put here and there a<br/>
question to our champion as grave<br/>
and important to the argument as why<br/>
he ever put to us. But what has he<br/>
done with them? Not one has he<br/>
made the slightest attempt to answer,<br/>
but treated them all, as he falsely<br/>
charges us of having done with his—<br/>
by covering them all up with irrele-<br/>
vant matter. Indeed he has virtually<br/>
reiterated questions that we had care-<br/>
fully answered before, and flourishes<br/>
them about as though we had never<br/>
written a word that had any bearing<br/>
upon them. We had labored to show<br/>
him that the Bible uses popular lan-<br/>
guage and scarcely ever employs scien-<br/>
tific al terms in speaking of the sky, the<br/>
sun, moon and stars, just as he him-self,<br/>
with all his knowledge of astronomy,<br/>
does in speaking to his children. But<br/>
instead of offering a word of reply to<br/>
it, he came forward with another ob-<br/>
jection of the same class, which he<br/>
thought he had found in the Bible<br/>
account of the rainbow. He flatter-<br/>
ed himself that he could prove from<br/>
that, that the writers of the Bible were<br/>
utterly ignorant of science, inasmuch<br/>
as they appear not to have known that<br/>
the rainbow is “simply an ocular<br/>
illusion that it is not in the cloud at<br/>
all nor in fact any where else.” And<br/>
because he thinks Miss Mary of the<br/>
Hoilo [?] America has demonstrated that, he<br/>
judges the Bible cannot be a book wor-<br/>
thy of our confidence. Now because he<br/>
thus ignored our previous reasoning<br/>
all this, we were but too successfully<br/>
tempted to treat lightly, even border-<br/>
ing on ridicule that outrage allso [?] of<br/>
polemical civility and sound logic.<br/>
But enough of this fault finding. Let<br/>
all the past be dropped, hoping that<br/>
both parties will be benefitted by our<br/>
mutual criticisms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We desire the best good of our an-<br/>
tagonist and of the hundreds of mil-<br/>
lions he represents, and therefore feel<br/>
happy to labor unweariedly “in sea-<br/>
son and out of season” in the paper<br/>
and out of it, and by all authorized<br/>
modes of reasoning and persuasion if<br/>
by any means we may convince him<br/>
and his most venerable host—unpar-<br/>
alleled in numbers, of the inimitable<br/>
excellence of the Bible as a light to<br/>
guide the footsteps of mankind to ho-<br/>
liness and happiness here, and to eter-<br/>
nal life hereafter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having thus cleared the way we<br/>
will in a future issue resume an or-<br/>
derly and orthodox argumentation<br/>
with our Buddhist Champion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Queen Victoria and the Bible.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a noble and beautiful answer of<br/>
our Queen—-the monarch of a free people,<br/>
reigning more by love than law, because<br/>
seeking to reign in the fear of God —it was<br/>
a noble answer she gave to an African<br/>
Prince who sent an embassy with costly<br/>
presents, and asked her in return to tell<br/>
him the SECRET of England's greatness<br/>
and England's glory; and our beloved<br/>
Queen sent him, not the number of her<br/>
fleet, not the number of her armies, not<br/>
the amount of her boundless merchandise,<br/>
not the details of her inexhaustible wealth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She did not, like Hezekiah; in an evil hour,<br/>
show the ambassador her diamonds and<br/>
her jewels, and her rich ornaments, but<br/>
handing him a beautifully bound copy of<br/>
the Bible, she said, "Tell the Prince that<br/>
THIS IS THE SECRET OF ENGLAND'S GREAT<br/>
NESS."—BRITISH WORKMAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
KING EDWARD VI.-—At the coronation<br/>
of this youthful king, which was on<br/>
February 20th, 1547. he being then only<br/>
nine years old, when three swords were<br/>
brought, as signs of his being king of<br/>
three kingdoms, he said there was one<br/>
yet wanting. And when the nobles about<br/>
him asked him what that was, he answer-<br/>
ed, "The Bible! That book," added he,<br/>
"is the sword of the Spirit, and to be<br/>
preferred before these swords. THAT, in<br/>
all right, ought to govern us, who use the<br/>
sword, by God's appointment, for the<br/>
people's safety. He who rules without<br/>
the Bible, is not to be called God's minis-<br/>
ter, or king. From that alone we ob-<br/>
tain all power, virtue, grace, salvation,<br/>
and whatsoever we have of Divine<br/>
strength."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some interesting anecdotes connected<br/>
with the youthful days of this excellent<br/>
prince, have been preserved. One day<br/>
when engaged with some companions in<br/>
amusements suitable for his age, he<br/>
wished to take down something from a<br/>
shelf above his reach. One of his play-<br/>
fellows offered him a large book to stand<br/>
upon; but, perceiving it to be the Bible,<br/>
King Edward refused such assistance with<br/>
indignation, and reproved the offender,<br/>
saying that it was highly improper that<br/>
he should trample under his feet that pre-<br/>
cious volume, which he ought to treasure<br/>
up in his head and heart."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
BRITISH WORKMAN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir: —This was a case tried in the<br/>
British Consulate in which James Mc<br/>
Kay was plaintiff, and Daniel Mac-<br/>
lean defendant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plaintiff produced a contract<br/>
dated in 1862, in which he had agreed<br/>
with Mr. John Clay, engineer pro Dan-<br/>
iel Maclean, to lift a boiler then sunk<br/>
in the river for the sum of $ 70. The<br/>
defendant was to find all labor and<br/>
material for the same.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The defendant then stated, that very<br/>
probably the plaintiff bought the said<br/>
contract in Hong Kong, for twenty<br/>
dollars.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plaintiff then produced a letter<br/>
from Mr. Kempt, clerk to Borneo Co.<br/>
Limited, stating that he was present at<br/>
the writing and signing of the said con-<br/>
tract. The Consul took the letter in<br/>
his hand and threw it down on the table<br/>
the same as if it was on fire, saying that<br/>
he would not read any letters of that<br/>
sort; (and said) the witness would be<br/>
summoned to appear and put on oath.<br/>
The plaintiff then lifted Mr. Kempt's<br/>
letter off the table, seeing there was not<br/>
the least chance of it igniting, and put<br/>
it in his pocket.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The defendant then stated that he had<br/>
lifted three boilers for the plaintiff's<br/>
one, and that he had never seen the<br/>
plaintiff before, and that he had never<br/>
received any bills for the amount claim-<br/>
ed, except one with an impertinent note,<br/>
and that he superintended the work<br/>
himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plaintiff then said the defend-<br/>
ant was not there except on three oc-<br/>
casions, and each of these times, on-<br/>
ly from fifteen minutes to half an hour;<br/>
and here was Mr. Moore present that<br/>
carried three bills for the amount claim-<br/>
ed in 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Consul then said that he would<br/>
put the cause off from this day the 11th<br/>
to the 16th April.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 16th 1866, at 10 A. M. plain-<br/>
tiff and witnesses had arrived at the<br/>
Consulate; at 11, 45 A. M. the defend-<br/>
ant came. The plaintiff and witnesses<br/>
were then called in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First witness, Mr. Kempt sworn—<br/>
stated, that the contract now produced<br/>
is the same which was written and sign-<br/>
ed in my presence, and further the<br/>
plaintiff was working on board of two<br/>
gun-boats for several days and nights,<br/>
but how long he could not now say.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Witness was then ordered outside.<br/>
Mr. Moore was then called, and<br/>
sworn:—stated, that when he was<br/>
chief-mate of the "Bangkok Mark"<br/>
plaintiff sent him on three different<br/>
occasions with bills to the defendant.<br/>
On two occasions he gave the bills to<br/>
Mr. John Clay, engineer to the de-<br/>
fendant, and the third time he carried<br/>
a bill which was receipted; he brought it<br/>
back again as Mr. Clay said he would<br/>
come on board himself that afternoon<br/>
and settle it, but did not come: and Mr.<br/>
Moore further stated, that on this last<br/>
occasion he got two new nuts made for<br/>
the truss-bands of the fore-yard, and<br/>
that he asked Mr. Clay what he was to<br/>
pay for them. Mr. Clay answered, no-<br/>
thing for such a trifling affair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the time the last witness was<br/>
on oath the defendant was laughing<br/>
all the time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Defendant sworn:—stated, that he<br/>
never authorized Mr. Clay to engage<br/>
the plaintiff or any one else. Consul<br/>
then asked him if he saw the plaintiff<br/>
there at work, he answered, that he did<br/>
and a number more of Europeans,<br/>
but he could not tell who they were.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Plaintiff was then sworn:—and<br/>
stated, that there was no Europeans<br/>
at work there, except Mr. Clay, Mr.<br/>
Norton, and plaintiff. Consul then<br/>
asked plaintiff if he could swear that<br/>
Mr. Clay was authorized by defendant<br/>
to engage the plaintiff, he answered, no.<br/>
The Consul then said, he would de-<br/>
cide the case against the plaintiff.<br/>
The plaintiff then said, that he would<br/>
appeal to the supreme Court. Consul<br/>
answered, he could not. Plaintiff then<br/>
asked for the decision of the Court in<br/>
writing. Consul said he could not have<br/>
it. The plaintiff then said, that he<br/>
would have to leave Court as a forger,<br/>
referring Consul to defendant's state-<br/>
ment of the 11th inst. viz:—"Plaintiff<br/>
having bought the said contract for<br/>
$20 in Hongkong," Consul said, he<br/>
did not hear defendant make that<br/>
statement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Plaintiff then referred the Consul to<br/>
Mr. D. J. Edwards and Mr. Moore, who<br/>
were both present. The Consul stated<br/>
that it was wrong of the defendant to<br/>
make that statement. This finished<br/>
the case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plaintiff leaves the above state-<br/>
ments and decision of Court to an in-<br/>
telligent public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When Consul's have only one Ear,<br/>
and one Eye to hear and see with, it<br/>
is high time they were recalled home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JAMES McKAY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor.-—Notwithstanding your<br/>
very enviable position as an assistant<br/>
in efforts to keep the cars of progress<br/>
on the track and the passengers from<br/>
jumping out and breaking their necks,<br/>
still I must tender my sympathies to<br/>
you and those engaged with you in<br/>
the same Herculean undertaking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While it delights me to see the grow-<br/>
ing inquiry of all classes after all sorts<br/>
of knowledge, not excepting religious<br/>
the grandest of the whole, I am pain-<br/>
ed that you have so few works of sci-<br/>
ence and literature prepared in the<br/>
languages of the people to put in the<br/>
hand of the masses, by which their<br/>
multiplied inquiries would be solved<br/>
without occupying space in your too<br/>
small paper. Were your inquirers,<br/>
as formerly, only personal visitors, you<br/>
could have the assistance of maps and<br/>
drawings, chymical and philosophical<br/>
apparatus, etc. as do all teachers of<br/>
science in Christian countries. But<br/>
these cannot be introduced into a<br/>
newspaper; and to pars[?] your native<br/>
correspondents without some suitable<br/>
answers to their inquiries would be<br/>
tantamount, in their estimation, to an<br/>
acknowledgment of a defeat, not<br/>
thinking for a moment that though a<br/>
man has truth on his side, it is much<br/>
easier for another to ask him questions<br/>
concerning that truth than for him to<br/>
answer them. Even the most eminent<br/>
philosophers frankly acknowledge that<br/>
a child's questions are often beyond<br/>
their ken. Homer, the great Grecian<br/>
poet, it is said, worried himself to<br/>
death because he could not answer the<br/>
inquiry of an ignorant fisherman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, though it be a fact that your<br/>
helps are so limited, I am glad to see<br/>
you encourage the spirit of inquiry e-<br/>
ven at the hazard of having it come<br/>
up sometimes not in the most desirable<br/>
form, for it will lead eventually, I<br/>
might say, according to the laws of<br/>
mind, necessarily, to the procuring of<br/>
men by those in power, whose ener-<br/>
gies shall be wholly devoted to the<br/>
work of translating books on science<br/>
and literature, as well as religion at<br/>
whatever cost. And I am happy to be a-<br/>
ble to say, that there are now men well<br/>
qualified for the responsible underta-<br/>
king, and would enter into it should<br/>
they be called for, which I venture to<br/>
predict for your encouragement, will<br/>
not be long hence. For this grand un-<br/>
dertaking His Majesty the King to-<br/>
gether with some of the princes,<br/>
the Prime Minister and others are e-<br/>
ven now quite well furnished, having<br/>
good European libraries which in their<br/>
present form are of little service ex-<br/>
cepting to a few amateurs in the English<br/>
language, and even those would much<br/>
better understand translations of their<br/>
English books into their own lan-<br/>
guage. Most of our scientific works<br/>
are written for cultivated minds, and<br/>
must be so translated as that they will<br/>
be adapted to a people like this, who<br/>
have no terms to express the most<br/>
simple principles. This is especially<br/>
true in chemistry, philosophy and met-<br/>
aphysics. They know a great deal a-<br/>
bout the mind, it is true, and much<br/>
more about matter, but have no such<br/>
thing as natural, moral, or mental<br/>
philosophy as a science, and hence new<br/>
terms must be introduced and a new<br/>
class of words added to their vocabu-<br/>
lary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And here is suggested the necessity<br/>
of having that Siamese and English<br/>
Dictionary of yours completed. It is<br/>
now much needed, and will be still<br/>
more so continually as the people be-<br/>
come more intelligent. What student<br/>
in Europe or America would not as<br/>
soon think of doing without his din-<br/>
ner as his dictionary? And yet the Si-<br/>
amese have nothing worthy of the name.<br/>
I hope you will get your Siamo-Eng-<br/>
lish dictionary through the press as<br/>
soon as possible, though I am not so<br/>
stupid as to suppose that with all the<br/>
business already upon you, you can ac-<br/>
complish such a work without a good<br/>
deal of time, and much less, without am-<br/>
ple remuneration. The time is past that<br/>
you Americans, should work for the<br/>
Siamese "free gratis and for nothing"<br/>
as your missionaries have hitherto done<br/>
and are still doing for the most part.<br/>
The Siamese have risen too high in<br/>
the scale of nations to prize what costs<br/>
them nothing. They have learned to<br/>
take from your hands the grandest<br/>
historical and religious books the<br/>
world possesses without a civil "thank<br/>
you," which the most uncultivated of<br/>
them would not fail to do should you pre-<br/>
sent them with a mere flower. They<br/>
have become accustomed to feel that<br/>
the reception of the books you offer<br/>
them is a sufficient reward for your<br/>
kindness, while England's sons not<br/>
many centuries ago could not pur-<br/>
chase an entire copy of the sacred vol-<br/>
ume for a $1000. The Siamese need<br/>
not wonder at the slow progress Eng-<br/>
land made towards civilization when<br/>
literature was so expensive, whilst<br/>
they themselves, with all the extraor-<br/>
dinary helps within their reach are no<br/>
more rapid in their advancement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Persevere then with a steady hand<br/>
and loving heart, always encouraging<br/>
investigation on all important subjects,<br/>
and you will have the sincere thanks<br/>
and approbation of all the good if no<br/>
others.{{< news/indent4 >}}SIGMA.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor.—-It seems to me that<br/>
your informant, whoever he is, was<br/>
not at the grand party given last week<br/>
by the Harbor Master, in honor of the<br/>
lately married couple, or he would not<br/>
say it was such a grand affair, every<br/>
body being so much pleased, and such<br/>
grand speeches we had.!! Unfortunate-<br/>
ly I was one of the guests on that eve-<br/>
ning and very sorry I was, for such<br/>
an ill arranged affair I have not seen<br/>
in many a day, and as for speeches, or<br/>
any thing in that line, there were none.<br/>
The worthy host of that evening should<br/>
not have forgotten the King’s party,<br/>
and the Consuls of Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One half of the guests being so much<br/>
slighted, and in fact some of them felt<br/>
insulted, were not in a good mood to<br/>
be sociable. It was a miserable affair.<br/>
A good many would have left the ta-<br/>
ble altogether, if it would not have<br/>
been disrespectful to the bride and<br/>
bridegroom. But they finally made up<br/>
their minds to worry it out the best<br/>
way they could, fully determined not<br/>
to get into such a scrape again if<br/>
they can avoid it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours one of the
VICTIMS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Sir:—Our much respected fellow<br/>
countryman Thomas Miller Esq. A. G.<br/>
R. O. A. C. has again taken his de-<br/>
parture from Siam for his native land.<br/>
On this occasion his stay with us has<br/>
been short.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His first residence in Bangkok to-<br/>
gether with his last, gives his many<br/>
old friends an opportunity of judging<br/>
of his many evil and good qualities.<br/>
May happiness and good fortune at-<br/>
tend him through life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
An old Friend.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Paper.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We desire to remind our patrons<br/>
and readers generally that the "Dang-<br/>
kok Recorder" is a free paper issued<br/>
from a free press and open for free<br/>
discussion; and that while our feelings<br/>
would sometimes lead us to suppress<br/>
damaging complaints alleged against<br/>
one or the other of the parties con-<br/>
cerned in a discussion, impartial justice<br/>
will not allow us to do so, since the<br/>
party feeling aggrieved has equal free-<br/>
dom to make himself heard through our<br/>
columns. But while we offer to the<br/>
public a free platform on which all<br/>
may stand forth and be heard, we<br/>
must of course desire and endeavor as<br/>
any good chairman of a public debate<br/>
would do, to exclude all scurrility and<br/>
intermeddling with strictly private af-<br/>
fairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our local subscribers probably wan-<br/>
der why they do not get the weekly is-<br/>
sues of the Recorder on the morning<br/>
of the next day after their dates. Our<br/>
apology is that the little pay we get<br/>
for the paper will not allow of the ex-<br/>
tra expense of working at night. We<br/>
wish in every issue to include all the<br/>
local news up to the evening of Thurs-<br/>
day, and we must have at least<br/>
one day and sometimes two after that to<br/>
get each issue ready for distribution.<br/>
We shall henceforth endeavor to have<br/>
the paper reach our patrons in the ci-<br/>
ty generally on every Friday evening<br/>
but it will be Saturday morning some-<br/>
times before they will get it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are indebted to A Rodlich Esqr.<br/>
for the loan of two No's of the "London<br/>
Illustrated News" which were brought<br/>
from Singapore by the "Jacmel<br/>
Packet." From these we have gleaned<br/>
several interesting items of intelligence<br/>
the most important of which is the<br/>
suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act<br/>
in Ireland, but too clearly showing that<br/>
England has been in imminent danger<br/>
of a terrible rebellion, and feels that<br/>
she cannot even now prevent it with-<br/>
out taking the extreme measure she<br/>
has. We fervently hope and expect<br/>
she will prevent the much dreaded ex-<br/>
plosion, and adopt measures that will<br/>
eventuate in restoring peace and quiet-<br/>
ness among her Irish subjects.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The suspension of the Habeas corpus<br/>
act in the U.S. by the late President<br/>
Lincoln in 1861 was w. [we?] think, severely<br/>
criticised by most of the organs of the<br/>
British government But now being<br/>
brought into similar circumstances how<br/>
quickly and universally do they approve<br/>
of what they condemned in Lincoln. But<br/>
seeing that Lincoln's bold act resulted<br/>
well, it is surely wisdom in England to<br/>
follow the example.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The second great Benefaction of Mr.<br/>
Peabody for the benefit of the poor in<br/>
London inconneclion with the £150,000<br/>
he gave for the same object in 1862<br/>
is indeed magnificent and well worthy<br/>
of the praise of all men. But let us who<br/>
are poor and therefore cannot begin to<br/>
perform such a splendid deed, remem-<br/>
ber that we have the ability given to<br/>
us of God to do a deed in his sight<br/>
and that of all heaven, — as great and<br/>
very likely much greater than Mr.<br/>
Peabody's benefaction, by devoting<br/>
our little all to him as the widow of<br/>
the two mite's in the Gospel did.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have heard of nothing of any<br/>
special local interest occurring since<br/>
our last issue. Every thing is won-<br/>
derfully quiet in the city and the<br/>
country so far as our knowledge ex-<br/>
tends. The heavens only have been<br/>
in commotion, and the result has<br/>
been several grand thunder showers<br/>
by which "seed time" has been fully<br/>
inaugurated exactly in the right sea-<br/>
son according to Siamese observations.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no alarming disease preva-<br/>
lent among us. Even dysentry which<br/>
rather prefers this season to all 'others,<br/>
is not common. The slight fevers<br/>
which were quite rife a few weeks since<br/>
appear to be passing away. And the<br/>
"night sweats" which preyed upon al-<br/>
most every person during the hot<br/>
season are now only occasionally heard<br/>
of. In short we may say that our cli-<br/>
mate is now for the most part very<br/>
healthy and delightful.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RICE-—Good cargo, Tie. 67 P coyan.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Fair{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" 49{{< news/indent2 >}}do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Clean{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" 61{{< news/indent2 >}}do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Mill cleaned "{{< news/indent2 >}}" 2½ P picul.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Superior{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" 3 do<br/>
SUGAR—White No. 1 "{{< news/indent2 >}}11½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 10¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 3 " 9⅓ do<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Brown " 1 " 7 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 6 do<br/>
BLACK PEPPER{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 9¼ do<br/>
BUFFALO HIDES{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 10 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}HORNS{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 11¾ do<br/>
COW HIDES{{< news/indent2 >}}" " 15 do<br/>
GUM BENJAMIN No. 1 " " 210 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 115 do<br/>
TIN " 1 " 40 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 37 do<br/>
HEMP " 1 " 22 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 21 do<br/>
GAMBOGE " " 13 do<br/>
SILK—Kurst " " 35 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" Cochin China " 770 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" Cambodia " [..] do<br/>
STICKLAC—No. 1 " " 17 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " 14 do<br/>
CARDAMUMS—Best " " 27 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" Bastard " 27 do<br/>
SAPANWOOD—804 pls. " " 3½ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" [..] pls. " " 2¾ do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" [..] pls. " " 2½ do<br/>
BEES WAX " " 9¾ do<br/>
LUK KRABOW TREES " " 2¾ do<br/>
IVORY [..] " " 310 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" [..] " " 310 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" [..] " " 315 do<br/>
TEAKWOOD " " 10 { Yok.<br/>
ROSEWOOD—-No " " 200 to 190 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" " " 170 "<br/>
REDWOOD " 1 " 210 do<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}" 2 " [..] do<br/>
MATBAGS " " 6 do<br/>
GOLDLEAF—-Tie 10 P Tical weight.<br/>
EXCHANGE-—On Sight, 3s. 11d. per picul.<br/>
count 10 d.s. Hongkong, 3 Peen. discount<br/>
80 d.s. London, 4s. 6d. @ 1 $ coyan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS—-Owing to the few foreign<br/>
ship pine in port, freights have [fallen?] from<br/>
40 to 45 cents inside, and 40 cents up<br/>
side of the bar for Hong Kong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed for<br/>
Hong Kong since 19th April:<br/>
Swedish bark "Killinn" rice 4,000 pls.<br/>
sapanwood 58 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Auson" 3600 picul<br/>
dy 1103 pls. sapanwood 1235 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Fira" rice 2,000 picul, paddy<br/>
dy 220 pls. sapanwood 1235 pls. tin 145<br/>
pls. hemp 87 pls. mussels 283 pls. car-<br/>
damums 26 pls. gamboge 13 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British ship "Lennox Castle" rice 12,000<br/>
pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hanoverian brig "J. A. Fluchtte" rice<br/>
2925 pls. paddy 240 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
American ship "A. M. Lawrence" rice<br/>
15,000 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian bark "Cathrina Jungeson" rice<br/>
4890 pls. mussels 102 pls. tin 16 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Arroy" for Siam [with?] rice<br/>
240 pls. paddy 922 pls. sapanwood 11½<br/>
teak planks 80
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sir Isaac Newton.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An humble cottage in the retirement<br/>
village of Woolsthorpe, in Lincolnshire<br/>
was the birthplace of Isaac Newton,<br/>
in the year 1643. The sickly child<br/>
of an already widowed mother, who<br/>
obtained a scanty living from the pro-<br/>
duce of a small farm, his lot seemed<br/>
to present few attractions and fewer<br/>
hopes. Yet, as soon as he had found<br/>
opportunity afforded for the exercise<br/>
of his powers, there were presented<br/>
early indications of ingenuity, if not<br/>
of genius, in the mechanical contriv-<br/>
ances which he made; and in the mills<br/>
and clocks, the kite and sundials, with<br/>
which he surrounded himself, there<br/>
were evidences which augured much<br/>
for time to come. At any rate, his<br/>
meditative moods and book-porings<br/>
were soon found utterly incompatible<br/>
with the discharge of the humble duties<br/>
of agricultural life which were entrusted<br/>
to him. His friends wisely resolved<br/>
to favour the bent of his genius, and<br/>
he at length exchanged the stack-yard<br/>
and the stable for the academic clois-<br/>
ters of Trinity College, Cambridge,<br/>
where as a student and professor he<br/>
manifested those evidences of intellec-<br/>
tual power and achieved those extraor-<br/>
dinary discoveries which have given<br/>
immortality to his name.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our space forbids us to indicate the<br/>
various steps by which he rose to<br/>
eminence in those regions of astronomi-<br/>
cal science over which his genius loved to<br/>
expatiate; but that must be reserv-<br/>
ed, which gives more moral dig-<br/>
nity to his character than any mere<br/>
intellectual attainments could have<br/>
conferred. In those computations<br/>
which ultimately demonstrated the<br/>
universality of the influence of the law<br/>
of gravitation, he unexpectedly found<br/>
there was an inconsistency between<br/>
his calculations and his anticipations,<br/>
which invalidated his theory, and des-<br/>
troyed the hope which he had so fond-<br/>
ly cherished of attaining to the dig-<br/>
nity of solving one of the greatest pro-<br/>
blems of existence. Instead of attempt-<br/>
ing, as too many would have done,<br/>
to "make up the difference" from im-<br/>
agination or delusion, in order to save<br/>
their theory, he accepted the result;<br/>
and, by an act of self-denial which has<br/>
been emphatically characterized, as<br/>
"more heroic than any other recorded<br/>
in the annals of intellectual pursuit,<br/>
he dismissed the speculation from his<br/>
mind. His reward came at last.<br/>
Some false data, which he had assumed to<br/>
be true, were corrected, and the long<br/>
desired and long delayed conclusion<br/>
was obtained. The delight of that<br/>
triumphant moment, when he saw<br/>
that the mighty discovery was all<br/>
his own, can hardly be conceived; and<br/>
it is affirmed that such was his agita-<br/>
tion as he continued his calculations,<br/>
and found that every figure was bring-<br/>
ing him nearer to the culmination of<br/>
his desires, that he was at length un-<br/>
able to proceed, and was obliged to re-<br/>
quest a friend to conclude them for him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To convey some idea of the extent<br/>
of the discoveries of Sir Isaac Newton,<br/>
it is enough to say, that so intricate<br/>
and comprehensive have been the prob-<br/>
lems which he first opened up to re-<br/>
search, that despite the laborious efforts<br/>
of Clairault, D'Alembert, Euler, La-<br/>
grange, and Laplace, it is affirmed that<br/>
another century will be required to<br/>
complete the task. Yet, with a mo-<br/>
desty which throws into still nobler<br/>
relief his splendid attainments, New-<br/>
ton tells us, that his own efforts seemed<br/>
to him "as only a child picking up<br/>
pebbles from the shore, while the great<br/>
ocean of truth lay unexplored before<br/>
him"—-British Workman
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
God's Plan of Your Life
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Never complain of your birth, your<br/>
circumstances, your hardships; never<br/>
fancy that you could be something if<br/>
you only had a different lot and sphere<br/>
assigned you. God understands his<br/>
plan, and he knows what you want a<br/>
great deal better than you. The very<br/>
things you most deprecate as fatal mis-<br/>
fortunes or obstructions, are probably<br/>
what you most want. What you call<br/>
hindrances, obstacles, discouragements,<br/>
are probably God's opportunities; and<br/>
it is nothing new that the patient should<br/>
dislike his medicines, or any certain<br/>
proof that they are poisonous. No! 'tis<br/>
true to all such impatience — choke<br/>
that envy that gnaws at your heart<br/>
because you are not in the same lot with<br/>
others; bring down your soul, or rath-<br/>
er, or bring it up to receive God's will, and<br/>
do his work, in your lot, in your sphere,<br/>
under your cloak of obscurity, against<br/>
your temptations, and then you shall<br/>
find that your condition is never oppor-<br/>
tuned to your good, to 'consent with<br/>
—A Dr. Bushnell
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ear boring in Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Students of history are always anxious<br/>
to discover the customs, manners, habits<br/>
and peculiarities of those nations or re-<br/>
ces, with which they desire to become<br/>
acquainted. Among the domestic cus-<br/>
toms of many nations, both of ancient<br/>
and modern times, is that of boring the<br/>
ears. It has been practiced both by<br/>
christian and heathen nations from time<br/>
immemorial. It is intended as a means<br/>
to ornament the person. Formerly it was<br/>
a practice generally followed not only<br/>
among the female sex, but to some ex-<br/>
tent among the male sex of different na-<br/>
tions of Europe. The outward adorn-<br/>
ment of the person by dress and jewelry<br/>
is highly becoming in every intelligent<br/>
and rational creature, provided, it is not<br/>
carried to excess. But where that orna-<br/>
mentation requires any cruel or painful<br/>
operation to promote it, the object is<br/>
clearly inconsistent with the laws of<br/>
beauty and of nature.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For a long period, it was very fashion-<br/>
able in England to have the ears of a<br/>
child bored with a red hot needle. The<br/>
fond parent had that cruel and barbar-<br/>
ous plan adopted under the simple be-<br/>
lief that she was doing her duty to her<br/>
child. It would enable her child at ma-<br/>
turity of years to wear earrings and<br/>
drops. And it is almost wonderful to<br/>
think of the kinds of rings and drops,<br/>
which were once worn by ladies, and of<br/>
the great variety of materials of which<br/>
these ornaments were made. The fashion<br/>
is rapidly becoming obsolete in Europe<br/>
and especially in Great Britian. Parents<br/>
have more wisdom now than they once<br/>
had. They do not believe it to be quite<br/>
right, to subject, a child who is unable to<br/>
judge for herself, of the propriety of this<br/>
cruel procedure. To run a red hot nee-<br/>
dle through the lobe of both ears is no<br/>
trifling affair. It undoubtedly produces<br/>
a great deal of pain, and as to ear rings<br/>
or drops being any addition to the love-<br/>
liness and beauty of the female face, it<br/>
is very questionable. Human sentiment<br/>
looks upon the unnecessary infliction of<br/>
pain, as both unjust and barbarous.<br/>
Doubtless this cruel custom will be<br/>
wholly banished from enlightened com-<br/>
munities within another generation.<br/>
Surgeons used at one time, to bore the<br/>
ears of their patients, as a relief to weak<br/>
or sore eyes. But they now prefer,<br/>
where such a remedy may be thought<br/>
necessary, to place a seton through the<br/>
back of the neck, instead of disfiguring<br/>
a man’s looks by making holes through<br/>
his ears.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our local readers are well aware, that<br/>
this process of boring the ears is one of<br/>
the customs of the people of Burmah in<br/>
whose land we dwell. It is a very an-<br/>
cient custom among them, and is prac-<br/>
ticed indiscriminately among both sexes.<br/>
We have but to look at any [?]Burman we<br/>
meet in the street, to be convinced of<br/>
the fact. It is a practice which is pur-<br/>
sued among the families of kings, queens,<br/>
princes, nobles and the great men of the<br/>
country. In truth there is no portion of<br/>
the people exempt from it. The cere-<br/>
mony of boring the ears of a child is the<br/>
occasion of a great domestic festival a-<br/>
mong them. It was lately observed at<br/>
the Burmese capital. One of the Kings<br/>
children had its ears bored, and the fes-<br/>
tival lasted for several days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the humbler classes, it may<br/>
make a festival for a day, or only one<br/>
morning. In a ramble last week, we<br/>
witnessed the performance of this cere-<br/>
mony at Pazoondoung. It may be brief-<br/>
ly described. The preparations had been<br/>
in progress for three or four days. The<br/>
parents of the child have in the first<br/>
place a couple or three booths, or sheds<br/>
raised near their house on some suitable<br/>
spot. The booth is a mere covering<br/>
from the sun. Cloths are spread out on<br/>
a frame work of bamboo and then cur-<br/>
tains are hung round as screens. These<br/>
sheds are the rendezvous for the guests.<br/>
A raised floor is put up in one corner for<br/>
the officiating priests, and they are invi-<br/>
ted to be present very early in the morn-<br/>
ing to say prayers and receive the offer-<br/>
ings prepared for them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The offering consist mostly of those<br/>
symbolic trees of plenty, on which a<br/>
great variety of domestic utensils and re-<br/>
quisites are found growing. A yellow<br/>
cloth for the priest rolled up is placed at<br/>
the top, and an open umbrella crowns the<br/>
summit of the “TREE OF PLENTY.” Oc-<br/>
casionally two or three hundred meet to<br/>
assist in this domestic proceeding. Food<br/>
is prepared long before the day dawns,<br/>
mats are spread on the ground, and the<br/>
tables laid out with crockery for the<br/>
guests.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The hero or the heroine of the occa-<br/>
sion is dressed up most gorgeously in<br/>
gold tinsel and silks, and brought out to<br/>
have the operation performed. Mounted<br/>
on the raised platform the poongyees go<br/>
through their customary prayers, the<br/>
laity are all sitting crouching round and<br/>
uttering the responses. Some offerings<br/>
on those pagodas like trays are placed be-<br/>
fore the priests. When prayers are over<br/>
the child’s ears are then bored. If the<br/>
parents can afford it, the needles are<br/>
made of gold. These are inserted into<br/>
the lobe of each ear, and retained in<br/>
position by a bit of beetulnut behind and<br/>
a piece of onion in front. The child is<br/>
cheered up by kind words and presents,<br/>
but is not drugged in order to bear the<br/>
pain. This, cruel operation over, the<br/>
professional operator is rewarded for his<br/>
services. Sometimes it is undertaken by<br/>
a man and sometimes by a woman.<br/>
When the child’s ears are well, the gold<br/>
needles are given to the borer. The<br/>
friends seat themselves round the tables<br/>
for breakfast. This is generally a boun-<br/>
tiful meal. Occasionally they take a<br/>
cup of tea after breakfast, but never<br/>
anything stronger. Good clear water is<br/>
the universal beverage and an immense<br/>
supply of beetle is eaten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Rangoon Times.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Rinderpost.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This fearful scourge is still scatter-<br/>
ing destruction and death among the<br/>
herds of neat cattle and flocks of sheep<br/>
in the Old World; and every person in<br/>
America who raises good cattle or sheep,<br/>
or likes excellent beef, mutton, butter,<br/>
and cheese, is filled with fearful fore-<br/>
bodings at the thought that the scourge<br/>
may obtain a foothold among our an-<br/>
imals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. T. S. Gold, corresponding sec-<br/>
retary of the Connecticut Agricultural<br/>
Society, has sent us the following let-<br/>
ter for publication, which will be read<br/>
with interest. Whether the Massachu-<br/>
setts pleuro-pneumonia is or is not<br/>
identical with the “rinderpest,” or with<br/>
any other pest, it behooves every per-<br/>
son to manifest suitable interest in pro-<br/>
tecting our flocks and herds from eve-<br/>
ry disease of that character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. EDITOR.—-An article appeared<br/>
in The Independent of the 16th inst.,<br/>
from the Hon. Amasa Walker, on the<br/>
cattle plague. He appears to have a-<br/>
dopted the serious error of confound-<br/>
ing the “pleuro-pneumonia” or Mas-<br/>
sachusetts cattle disease, and the “rin-<br/>
derpest,” or Russian cattle plague.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pleuro-pneumonia was introduced<br/>
into Massachusetts in 1859; but by<br/>
prompt legislative action its ravages<br/>
were checked. It has been longer<br/>
known in the milk stables of New York<br/>
and Philadelphia, as the “stomp-tail<br/>
cow disease.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the “rinderpest” is admitted to<br/>
be a different and far more fatal disease.<br/>
Indigenious to the steppes of Russia,<br/>
in 1856. it spread into Germany. In<br/>
1857 Prof. Simonds, of the Royal Ve-<br/>
terinary College of England, was sent<br/>
to Germany by the Royal Agricultu-<br/>
ral Society to investigate the disease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prof. Simonds found it terribly dis-<br/>
tructive, and in the highest degree con-<br/>
tagious; but he reported “that no fear<br/>
need be entertained that it would reach<br/>
England.” He gives as the reasons for<br/>
this opinion, distance, insular position,<br/>
military cordons about infected dis-<br/>
tricts, and no direct cattle trade. Yet<br/>
by direct cattle trade from Russia the<br/>
disease has been introduced into Eng-<br/>
land, where it is spreading with fear-<br/>
ful rapidity. Indeed the history of<br/>
its progress forms the leading topic in<br/>
the journals. Sheep as well as cattle,<br/>
attacked by it, are capable of commu-<br/>
nicating the disease. Portions of dis-<br/>
eased animals, fodder from their stalls,<br/>
clothing of attendants, each can con-<br/>
vey the disease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As Ireland is still exempt from the<br/>
plague, the English Privy Council has<br/>
prohibited the importation into Ireland<br/>
from England “any cow, heifer, bull,<br/>
ox, or calf,” also “any skins, hides,<br/>
hoofs, or other parts of the above named<br/>
animals.” Sheep, swine, and goats<br/>
were afterwards subjected to the prohi-<br/>
bition. We agree with Mr. Walker<br/>
in the value of prevention, and earnest-<br/>
ly hope Congress will prohibit the im-<br/>
portation of any of these animals from<br/>
Europe. {{< news/indent4 >}} S. T. GOLD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-03_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Remedy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Worm's remedy has had, as far as<br/>
we can hear, every reasonable success.<br/>
Those who pinned or are pinning their<br/>
faith on remedies of their own proclaim<br/>
its failure, and the professors have pro-<br/>
nounced no benediction over it; but none<br/>
was expected. Mr. Duckham, the editor<br/>
of the "Hereford Herd Book," who is<br/>
by no means a believer in cures, bears<br/>
his testimony, among others to its effect<br/>
on two beasts belonging to a neighbour,<br/>
and their seems little doubt that if it had<br/>
been brought out months ago it would<br/>
have saved a very large percentage. It<br/>
is very curious that onions have always<br/>
been looked on as an antidote for this<br/>
diseas, and a hundred years ago it was,<br/>
we hear, a practice to hang a rope of<br/>
them round the beast's neck. Mr. Worms<br/>
recommends an increase in the quantity<br/>
of onions and garlic from 1 lb. to 2 lb.<br/>
each, the ginger from 1 lb. to 1¼ lb.; and<br/>
the assafœtida from ¾ lb. to 1¼ lb. If<br/>
their is scouring, he is in favour of the<br/>
following mixture for a full-grown beast:<br/>
—"One desert-spoonful of laudanum and<br/>
one wineglassful of catechu, in about a<br/>
pint of thick rice-gruel." How far these<br/>
remedies will be pursued, under the<br/>
poleaxe reign, it is difficult to say. It is,<br/>
however, certain that Dr. Wilkinson, with<br/>
his hyposulphite; and Mr. Worms, with<br/>
his medicine, are about the only pioneers<br/>
that we now have to help us to combat a<br/>
disease which might be brought over,<br/>
year after year, by an evil-disposed per-<br/>
son, in a quill—Ill. Lon. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dook Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
