---
linkTitle: 'April 5th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 5th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 5th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 36
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, April 5th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 13.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Under the Deep.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Down in the deep where the still waters sleep<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On the coral beds pillow'd with sand,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the Kings of the Sea their watchfullness keep<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}O'er the treasures of many a land,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I've a jewel more precious to me than the mines<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With their diamonds of beauty untold;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A gem that in lustre unfading outshines<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The purest of India's gold.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It was set in the crown of my joy long ago<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the pride of my heart was its throne,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where the light of its purity beamed in the glow<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of a love that no mortal hath known.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Save I, and my little one sleeping so still,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And who never can come back to me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Through the darkness and chill of the waters that fill<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}His sepulchre out in the Sea. <br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}O my darling I lost, O the anguish it cost,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The angels in heaven can tell<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}How the blossoms of hope died out in the frost?<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the Winter of sorrow that fell<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}On my soul when I knew that the gentle and true<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Had perished whom God could have saved,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And kept him for me and my love till he grew<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}To battle the perils he braved.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Now I sit on the shore and list to the roar<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of the breakers that dash at my feet,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And think of the face I shall see nevermore,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Till over death's billows we meet;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But down in my heart is a fountain of peace<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That gladdens my life while I weep.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A spring whose sweet comfortings never shall cease<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Until under the lilies I sleep.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For the tide in its flow is singing I know<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Through the coral groves over his breast,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And the rough rolling waves with their fringes<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Are rocking him gently to rest; like snow<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}While the soft Summer winds with the music of streams<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the ripples all whisper to me,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the moonlight's pale beams, the love and the dreams<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of my sailor boy under the sea.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
George Stephenson.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from No. 12.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 28th November, 1802,<br/>
George being a few months more than<br/>
twenty-one years of age, he married<br/>
at Newburn Church his beloved Fanny<br/>
Henderson, and took her to his newhome<br/>
at Willington Quay, six miles from<br/>
Newcastle. His industry had made a<br/>
nest little home for his young wife,<br/>
and she was sure to add to its comfort.<br/>
The sisters of Fanny had married<br/>
men in better worldly stations than<br/>
George Stephenson, but they were all<br/>
of a good stock—-capital housewives,<br/>
and full of warm-hearted sympathies<br/>
—-so that, by his happy union, George,<br/>
had now a new and prosperous family<br/>
circle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With new duties came new energy.<br/>
From mending shoes, George took to<br/>
making them, and he drove a good<br/>
trade in making shoe-lasts, which<br/>
were soon found of great excellence.<br/>
An accident happened at his cottage<br/>
that developed the young husband's<br/>
mechanical skill. While he was absent<br/>
one day, the chimney took fire, and<br/>
the neighbours, in putting it out,<br/>
swamped the dwelling with water, and<br/>
injured what was most prised[?] of all,<br/>
the eight-day clock. To send this to<br/>
a clock-maker for repairs would cost<br/>
more than they could afford. &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
George set himself to work to mend<br/>
the clock, and succeeded so well that<br/>
his neighbours from that time sent<br/>
him their clocks to repair, and gave<br/>
him the name of "the clock doctor."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 16th of December, 1803,<br/>
the young parents rejoiced over their<br/>
first-born, and as it proved, their only<br/>
child, now a man of world-wide cele-<br/>
brity. It marks the filial piety of<br/>
George, that he called his son after<br/>
his own worthy aged father, Robert,<br/>
little dreaming that M. P. would in<br/>
time be put after that name, and the<br/>
world would be the better for the<br/>
genius of Robert Stephenson as it has<br/>
been for that of his father.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The warm heart that had given its<br/>
love to so many dumb creatures was<br/>
sure to have plenty to bestow upon<br/>
this last dear claimant. His wife and<br/>
child were indeed a crown of rejoic-<br/>
ing. Perhaps the humble home, glad-<br/>
dened by their smiles, was too happy<br/>
for this earth—-certain it is, the light<br/>
of joy was soon to be quenched in<br/>
tears. The year after the infant was<br/>
born, the good and gentle mother was<br/>
called away to a heavenly home, and<br/>
her husband and babe were left deso-<br/>
late. With all the strength of his<br/>
strong nature must George Stephenson<br/>
have mourned his loss. His helpless<br/>
child was the best earthly comforter.<br/>
For his sake the grief must be borne,<br/>
the desolate future fronted with a calm<br/>
resolution, however the heart might<br/>
ache.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was a mercy that entire change<br/>
of scene came at that dreary time.<br/>
George Stephenson was invited to su-<br/>
perintend the working of a new en-<br/>
gine, at some works near Montrose, in<br/>
Scotland. Leaving his boy in good<br/>
care, he set out, and performed the<br/>
long journey on foot. He who has<br/>
given us railroads that we can traverse<br/>
with comfort and ease, at a penny a<br/>
mile, had then to tramp with his kit<br/>
on his back, a much more expensive<br/>
way, say nothing of the fatigue, but<br/>
there was then no help for it. He was<br/>
in Scotland a year—-paid regularly for<br/>
his child's maintenance, and contrived<br/>
to save £28. He wanted to make some<br/>
alterations in the engine, this led to a<br/>
disagreement, and longing to get back<br/>
to his child, he gave up his work, and<br/>
trudged back again. On the way, when<br/>
foot-sore and weary, he knocked at a<br/>
cottage and asked shelter, he was re-<br/>
fused. He entreated to be permitted<br/>
to lie down on some straw in an out-<br/>
house, the good woman, struck by his<br/>
manner, overcome her husband's re-<br/>
luctance, and they admitted him to<br/>
their fireside. He repaid their hospi-<br/>
tality by his pleasant conversation,<br/>
and they were so pleased with him,<br/>
that when, on the morrow, he offered<br/>
to pay them, they refused to take<br/>
money, asking only to be remembered<br/>
kindly. Many years after, when Step-<br/>
henson became a rich man, he called<br/>
upon this couple, who were not a lit-<br/>
tle surprised to find what a distin-<br/>
guished guest they had received.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There had been a heavy trouble in<br/>
his native home during the young<br/>
man's absence. The child was well,<br/>
but the father, Robert Stephenson, had<br/>
met with an accident, by which he was<br/>
terribly scorched, and rendered totally<br/>
blind. In this great affliction, the<br/>
family helped the old man as well as<br/>
they could, but that was not much, and<br/>
of necessity some debts were incurred. It<br/>
took £18 out of his £28 to do this, and<br/>
soon after, he moved the aged couple<br/>
to a comfortable cottage near his own<br/>
dwelling, and supported them there<br/>
until the close of their lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One who was so dutiful to his own<br/>
parents, richly merited that his son<br/>
should be dutiful to him, and in all<br/>
his biography, whether literary or scien-<br/>
tific, there is nothing more truly noble<br/>
and beautiful than the perfect love<br/>
between George Stephenson and his<br/>
congenial-minded son. Not often is it<br/>
permitted for parent and child to be so<br/>
completely congenial in the character<br/>
of their minds as were these. Amid<br/>
all his trials and his triumphs, it must<br/>
have been his greatest earthly comfort<br/>
that his son shared his honourable<br/>
toils, and drank deeply into his own<br/>
spirit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Very slow at this time was the outward<br/>
progress of our hero. He had not only<br/>
all those heavy kindred cares upon<br/>
him, but in 1807-8, he was drawn for<br/>
the militia, and the cost of procuring a<br/>
substitute swept away all his savings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many years after, when addressing a<br/>
society of young men at Belper, he<br/>
said "Not having served an apprentice-<br/>
ship to an engineer, I had made up my<br/>
mind to go to America, considering<br/>
that no one in England would trust<br/>
me to act as an engineer."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Between the years 1808-12, his first<br/>
skill as an engineer was put to the test.<br/>
A neighbouring coal-pit was drowned<br/>
with water, and the pumping engine<br/>
used, was wholly inefficient to draw<br/>
it off; after a long delay, the managers<br/>
agreed to let Stephenson try his hand<br/>
at improving the pumping engine; he<br/>
was completely successful, and a pre-<br/>
sent of ten guineas was made him<br/>
beyond his wages. His name was now<br/>
up through the country side, and he<br/>
was called to remedy the defects of<br/>
other engines. As usual, he varied<br/>
his toils by an ingenious employment<br/>
of his leisure. The housewives of the<br/>
district were indebted to him; for by<br/>
a simple contrivance, he made the<br/>
smoke-jacks at the chimney side rock<br/>
the cradles of the infants. He used<br/>
also to cut out men's suits of cloths<br/>
so dexterously, that "George Step-<br/>
henson's cut" is spoken of to this day;<br/>
meanwhile, his favourite occupations<br/>
of last making, and clock and watch<br/>
mending, went on, and filled up his<br/>
leisure—reading, writing, and above<br/>
all arithmetic not being forgotten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During these four years he saved<br/>
£100 in guineas; and during a demand<br/>
for gold, he sold his guineas for twenty-<br/>
five shillings each, and began to feel<br/>
his footing more secure in a worldly<br/>
sense, though his wages were still very<br/>
moderate. He was 31 years of age<br/>
before he obtained his regular em-<br/>
ployment as an engineer to a colliery,<br/>
at £100 a year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the strongest determinations<br/>
of Stephenson was that his son Robert<br/>
should have a good education. Ac-<br/>
cordingly he sent the boy to a good<br/>
school at Newcastle, where he proved<br/>
himself as diligent as even his active<br/>
father could wish. The youth's edu-<br/>
cation aided the further development<br/>
of his father's mind, for as Robert in<br/>
time attended the lectures at the New-<br/>
castle Literary Philosophical Society,<br/>
he was required to bring home an<br/>
abstract of what he heard, and few<br/>
more beautiful sights could be seen<br/>
than young Robert on a Saturday af-<br/>
ternoon, when he returned to his home<br/>
at Killingworth, giving his father an<br/>
account of scientific matters, or read-<br/>
ing with him some valuable scientific<br/>
book, or making drawings and experi-<br/>
ments. Both child and man were<br/>
carrying on their education.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wooden tram-ways that ran in<br/>
front of the cottage where Stephenson<br/>
first saw the light, were of course the<br/>
means of suggesting the modern rail-<br/>
way, and the first locomotive or tra-<br/>
veling engine that Stephenson made<br/>
was simply a contrivance by which<br/>
coal waggons might be propelled along<br/>
the tram-ways with more speed and<br/>
less expense. His own account of the<br/>
matter is this. "The first locomotive<br/>
I made was at Killingworth colliery,<br/>
and with Lord Ravensworth's money.<br/>
Yes! Lord Ravensworth was the first<br/>
to trust me with money to make a lo-<br/>
comotive engine." That engine was<br/>
made in 1813, and Stephenson called<br/>
it "My Lord."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He did not claim any inventive<br/>
power as to the locomotive. His men-<br/>
tal history is chiefly remarkable for<br/>
his aptitude at improving and apply-<br/>
ing what, but for his practical common<br/>
sense, might have only been scientific<br/>
curiosities. A man of wondrous gen-<br/>
ius in Cornwall, named Trevethie,<br/>
made a locomotive steam-engine to<br/>
travel on common roads, as for back<br/>
as 1802. But though marvellously<br/>
ingenious, there was such danger as-<br/>
sociated with this invention, that it<br/>
never found permanent favour or suc-<br/>
cess, and Richard Trevethie left a<br/>
name second to none as a man of gen-<br/>
ius, but he wanted what is as rare and<br/>
as valuable as genius—plodding, sound,<br/>
common sense. In these latter quali-<br/>
ties Stephenson excelled, and they<br/>
stood him in greater stead than the<br/>
loftiest genius without them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London Feb. 12th,—The proceed-<br/>
ings of the Royal commission in Ja-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
maica have commenced—-English ad-<br/>
vocates have been engaged on behalf of<br/>
Messrs. Gordon, Underhill, and others.<br/>
An American Revenue Commission have<br/>
submitted the Report to Congress,<br/>
proposing a tax of five cents per pound<br/>
on Cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A letter received from Deebeh Las-<br/>
sam (l) announces that the Abys-<br/>
sinian captives are still alive, and jour-<br/>
neying with the Emperor. Egyptian<br/>
Government missed Schori; (l) sold<br/>
into slavery nearly four thousand Ne-<br/>
groes, crops for Mutic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Galle, 15th Feb.-—Arrived, Steamer<br/>
Madras, from Australia, Sydney, Jan-<br/>
uary 20th, other dates not received.<br/>
No news of importance from New Zea-<br/>
land. The utter failure of the Hanhan<br/>
fanaticism in the East has disgusted the<br/>
majority of the people with the war,<br/>
which may be said to in a fair way of<br/>
dying off. The murderers of Revd.<br/>
Valkner not yet been tried at Adelaide.<br/>
Excitement about new gold-fields<br/>
continues at Melbourne. A rumour is<br/>
afloat, that Sir Charles Darling has<br/>
been recalled.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Napoleon opened the Chambers to-<br/>
day. Referring to Mexico, he said he<br/>
had arranged with Maximilian to re-<br/>
call the French troops, and fixed a<br/>
time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 17th February.-—Parlia-<br/>
ment has suspended the Habeas Cor-<br/>
pus Act in Ireland.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
United States Steamer Curcius<br/>
wrecked—-all perished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearly 200 Fenians apprehended.<br/>
Four Non-Commissioned Officers of<br/>
the 73rd Regiment arrested at Lime-<br/>
rick. Enquiry instituted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
America, 10th February.-—A col-<br/>
ored deputation has gone up demand-<br/>
ing suffrage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President advises the Negroes<br/>
to emigrate declaring that enfranchise-<br/>
ment would breed war of races in the<br/>
the South.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Canadian Commissioners have<br/>
failed to obtain renewal of the Reci-<br/>
procity Treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peru and Chili have declared war<br/>
against Spain—-the other South Ame-<br/>
rican Republics expected to give in<br/>
their adherence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Spanish Fleet has blockaded<br/>
Valparaiso.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bombay, 26th February.—-The<br/>
Sultan of Muscat has been murdered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the Arab Tribes on the Coast of<br/>
Muscat are in open revolt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The murder is supposed to be in<br/>
retaliation for the operations of the<br/>
Steamer Highflyer against the Waha-<br/>
bees.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Mexican question is again the<br/>
chief subject of interest in the news<br/>
from America. The President had<br/>
laid the correspondence between his<br/>
government and France before Con-<br/>
gress, and it will be seen from the sub-<br/>
joined abstract of it that there is little<br/>
chance of agreement between the two<br/>
Powers. A telegraphic notice of this<br/>
correspondence appeared in our last:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In July last Maximilian's agent made<br/>
an unsuccessful attempt to obtain Fed-<br/>
eral recognition through the intermedi-<br/>
ary of M. de Montholon. On Novem-<br/>
ber 16th Mr. Seward wrote to Mr. Big-<br/>
elow, the American ambassador at<br/>
Paris, representing that the presence<br/>
and the operations of the French army<br/>
in Mexico, and its maintenance of an<br/>
authority there, caused serious concern<br/>
to the United States. Nevertheless<br/>
the objection of the United States is<br/>
still broader, and includes the author-<br/>
ity itself which the French army is<br/>
thus maintaining, and which is in di-<br/>
rect antagonism to the policy of the<br/>
Federal government and the principle<br/>
on which it is founded. Every-day's<br/>
experience of its operations confirms<br/>
the justice of the views expressed by<br/>
the Federal government at the time<br/>
that the attempt to institute that au-<br/>
thority first became known. The<br/>
United States still regard the attempt<br/>
to establish permanently a foreign im-<br/>
perial government in Mexico as disal-<br/>
lowable and impracticable, because the<br/>
United States could not now agree to<br/>
compromise the position heretofore<br/>
assumed. They are not prepared to<br/>
recognise, or pledge themselves hereaf-<br/>
ter to recognise, any political institu-<br/>
tions in Mexico in opposition to the<br/>
Republican government with which<br/>
they have so long maintained friendly<br/>
relations. He dwells so earnestly on<br/>
on this branch of the political relations<br/>
because at present they supersede those<br/>
of commerce in the consideration of<br/>
the American people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On November 30th, Mr. Bigelow re-<br/>
ports having read Mr. Seward's des-<br/>
patch to M. Drouyn de Lhuys, who<br/>
thanked him, though he felt obliged<br/>
to say that he derived neither pleasure<br/>
nor satisfaction from its contents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 4th December, Mr. Seward<br/>
writes to Mr. Bigelow:-—"Your des-<br/>
patch of Nov. 24th seems to discourage<br/>
on our part expectations of an early<br/>
withdrawal of the French from Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It must be remembered, however,<br/>
that the opinions on that subject which<br/>
received from M. Drouyn de Lhuys<br/>
were expressed not only without the<br/>
emperor's positive sanction, but also<br/>
in the absence of any knowledge on<br/>
the part of the French government as<br/>
the definite conclusions of the Presi-<br/>
dent on the subject discussed. It is<br/>
desirable to leave no part of those op-<br/>
inions open to misapprehension. It is<br/>
signally desirable that we shall be au-<br/>
thorised to infer that such expositions<br/>
of imperial views as are given to us in<br/>
the name of the French government<br/>
are made with the emperor's approval."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On December 16th Mr. Seward writes<br/>
to Mr. Bigelow that it is the Presid-<br/>
ent's purpose that France should be<br/>
respectfully informed upon two points<br/>
—-first, that the United States earnestly<br/>
ship desire to cultivate sincere friend-<br/>
ship with France. Second, that this policy<br/>
would be imminently jeopardised un-<br/>
less France could deem it consistent with<br/>
her interest and honour to desist from<br/>
prosecuting armed intervention in Mex-<br/>
ico to overthrow the existing Republic<br/>
an government, and establish upon its<br/>
ruins a foreign monarchy. In conclu-<br/>
sion, Mr. Seward says that the United<br/>
States will not recognize Maximilian<br/>
even if the French troops are with-<br/>
drawn from Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The papers presented to Congress<br/>
include a confidential letter from M.<br/>
Drouyn de Lhuys to M. de Montholon,<br/>
the French ambassador at Washington.<br/>
dated October 18th stating that he re-<br/>
newed the assurance of the strong de-<br/>
sire of the French government to with-<br/>
draw its auxiliary corps as soon as cir-<br/>
cumstance permitted. The French<br/>
government has been ready to adopt,<br/>
without a moment's delay the basis of<br/>
an understanding with the Washing-<br/>
ton government. What it asked of<br/>
the United States was an assurance<br/>
that it was not their intention to im-<br/>
pede the consolidation of the new or-<br/>
der of things founded in Mexico. The<br/>
best guarantee the French government<br/>
could desire would be Federal recog-<br/>
nition of Maximilian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On December 6th Mr. Seward wrote<br/>
to M. de Montholon saying:—-"After<br/>
a review of all the facts, the President<br/>
is gratified with the assurance you<br/>
give of the emperor's good disposition.<br/>
I regret, however, to be obliged to<br/>
say that the condition which the em-<br/>
peror presents is one which seems to<br/>
be impracticable."-—Straits Times
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mexico.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor Maximilian has de-<br/>
livered a speech in reply to an ad-<br/>
dress offering condolence upon the<br/>
death of King Leopold, in which he<br/>
expressed confidence in his destiny,<br/>
and a determination to continue the<br/>
course which he has commenced. He<br/>
would not change the Democratic cus-<br/>
toms of Mexico, but he considered a<br/>
strong rule was the last anchor of safety<br/>
for the country. He looked forward<br/>
to the future without anxiety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Ranchero, of Matamoras, states<br/>
that Bagdad was abandoned by the<br/>
Liberals on this 26th January, and<br/>
that a Federal guard was stationed<br/>
there. The Imperialists took posses-<br/>
sion the same day. Cortinas and Es-<br/>
cobedo had left the neighbourhood of<br/>
the Rio Grande. The leading mer-<br/>
chants of Matamoras, both foreign and<br/>
Mexican, have published a protest<br/>
against the proceedings of the Federal<br/>
civil and military authorities on the<br/>
Texas side of the Rio Grande, charg-<br/>
ing them with the responsibility of the<br/>
troubles and outrages perpetrated on<br/>
the Rio Grande by aiding the par-<br/>
tisans of Juarez—a party which they<br/>
declare has at present no more foot-<br/>
hold there than is afforded by Federal<br/>
officials. The Consuls of Great Bri-<br/>
tain, France, Spain, and Prussia, tes-<br/>
tify to the truth of the protest.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
April 5th 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Our Buddhist Champion.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our readers, we presume have not<br/>
forgotten the discussion we had in our<br/>
columns some two or three months<br/>
since with a distinguished Buddhist<br/>
Champion, and they may, perhaps, won-<br/>
der why they have heard nothing more<br/>
from him. We feel now constrained<br/>
to confess that this silence has not<br/>
been from any power we flattered our-<br/>
selves we had in silencing him by ar-<br/>
gument, but rather from an unwilling-<br/>
ness we have had to publish his<br/>
puerile effort. It was sent for publication<br/>
many weeks since, and we have thus<br/>
long laid it aside not by any means be-<br/>
cause we wanted time to study how<br/>
to answer it, but simply because we<br/>
feared our readers would not think it<br/>
worth the space it must needs<br/>
occupy in our small paper. We still<br/>
have the same fears, and hence have de-<br/>
termined now to make but a few brief<br/>
remarks concerning it. The article<br/>
possesses some interest as a specimen<br/>
of the utter weakness of Buddhism to<br/>
sustain any argument against the Bi-<br/>
ble. The writer instead of replying a<br/>
word to any of our answers to his pre-<br/>
vious objections, produces another<br/>
which he evidently thinks is a poser<br/>
and may well stand as his grand ulti-<br/>
matum. And what is wonderful about<br/>
it is, that he has taken it from that<br/>
good christian work for children—-<br/>
The Rollo Series, written by Rev. J.<br/>
Abbot of N. York. The chapter which<br/>
after all his re-search he has light-<br/>
ed upon is that one where Miss Mary<br/>
teaches Jonas, Rollo, and Lucy that<br/>
there is really no rainbow "set in the<br/>
clouds" or any where else, but that<br/>
"it is only an optical illusion in peo-<br/>
ples eyes." Our most highly distin-<br/>
guished Buddhist advocate having<br/>
quoted from the Bible all the passage<br/>
found in the 9th Chapter of Genesis con-<br/>
cerning the Rainbow, not copied what<br/>
Miss Mary taught concerning it, then<br/>
with an air of great triumph puts to<br/>
us the scoffing question, "Is this<br/>
the Book which you affirm to be the<br/>
greatest luminary in the world, and<br/>
which is going to enlighten the whole<br/>
earth, imparting to mankind the high-<br/>
est and best knowledge"? He then gives<br/>
us his own peculiar ultimatum—-saying<br/>
The Bible appears to some to be but a feeble<br/>
taper in its power to impart light, or<br/>
more properly as a single lucifer match.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now while we are glad to have a<br/>
fresh confirmation of what we well<br/>
knew before, that Buddhism is proving<br/>
herself by her mightiest Champion to be<br/>
utterly weak and puerile in argument<br/>
against the Bible and Christianity,<br/>
we cannot but deeply lament that such<br/>
a man in such a high place of power<br/>
and influence is so sadly deluded. When<br/>
we consider the tremendous respon-<br/>
sibility he assumes—-the millions of<br/>
precious souls he is leading to eternal<br/>
ruin with his own, we often times groan<br/>
out in anguish of spirit—-O that he were<br/>
wise—-that he would consider his latter<br/>
end—-that he would but be willing to<br/>
study the Bible with a docile spirit,<br/>
stripped of all pride of opinion, of all<br/>
self conceit, of all fear of finding some-<br/>
thing in that Blessed book of God to<br/>
disturb his repose in Buddhism and<br/>
to draw his heart into a love of its<br/>
teachings! Then would he most cer-<br/>
tainly find in it "the words of eternal<br/>
life" and by them with their author's<br/>
eternal power and grace be saved with<br/>
an everlasting salvation. It is not only<br/>
for his own soul and the millions he<br/>
is now leading that we fear, but also<br/>
for the future welfare of the Kingdom<br/>
which he causes to blaspheme the name<br/>
of the most High and only God our<br/>
Saviour, and to despise and even openly<br/>
ridicule the only and infallible Chart<br/>
God has given mankind to direct them<br/>
to eternal life. Jehovah's threatening<br/>
found in Isaiah LX. 12th looks as if<br/>
it were pointing directly to Siam in<br/>
her present prolonged and fearful<br/>
infidelity. "The nation and kingdom<br/>
that will not serve thee shall perish; yea<br/>
those nations shall be utterly wasted."<br/>
But while we thus frankly and affec-<br/>
tionately express our fears for Siam, we<br/>
do still entertain lively hopes that she<br/>
will yet be saved as a nation, and<br/>
finally greatly blest as a Christian<br/>
kingdom. But these hopes, we are<br/>
fully persuaded can only be realized by<br/>
speedy repentance on the part of those<br/>
who rule Siam; and for this we do<br/>
and will continue to hope even unto<br/>
death.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
object in uniting Siam at the present<br/>
time is to further the interests of<br/>
the British Telegraph Company in<br/>
carrying through their line from Maul-<br/>
main to Singapore with a branch from<br/>
Tavoy to this city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From a government document of<br/>
which we give a translation in one of<br/>
the columns of this issue, our readers<br/>
will rejoice to percieve that Siam is<br/>
not going to be behind any neighbor-<br/>
ing nation in allowing her territory to<br/>
be traversed by Telegraph lines.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing has occurred here for a long<br/>
time that has given us so much hope<br/>
for Siam as a nation as this noble de-<br/>
termination of her government to<br/>
allow herself to be put into lightening<br/>
communication with Western Asia<br/>
the isles of South Eastern Asia,<br/>
Australia and Europe. Mr. Reid be-<br/>
ing an old acquaintance of His Ma-<br/>
jesty's, a man of the most respectable<br/>
and powerful connections, will, we<br/>
doubt not, accomplish great good by<br/>
his present mission. The grand work<br/>
he has in hand has, we trust al-<br/>
ready advanced to a point from which<br/>
it cannot go backward. Within a year<br/>
or two at the farthest, we may boldly<br/>
predict, messages will be flashing be-<br/>
tween Bangkok and Maulmain and<br/>
Singapore daily; and as the great<br/>
western line from Europe is already<br/>
complete to Maulmain, we shall in<br/>
that time be on the most intimate<br/>
speaking terms with all Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn also that Mr. Reid will at<br/>
the present time exert his influence in<br/>
bringing up for discussion before the<br/>
Siamese government the project of<br/>
having a railroad constructed between<br/>
this and Maulmain. This, at first<br/>
thought, may seem to some a too rapid<br/>
march in the line of improvement for<br/>
such a country as Siam. But on more<br/>
mature reflection, we think it will be<br/>
found not a wild project. Siam is<br/>
now loudly summoned by passing<br/>
events to come up promptly to the aid<br/>
of such projects as bid fair to unite<br/>
her closely and indissolubly with Bri-<br/>
tish interests. What possible danger<br/>
could there be to her interests in al-<br/>
lowing British capitalists to construct<br/>
a railroad from Maulmain to Bangkok?<br/>
How surely would such a road in suc-<br/>
cessful operation enhance the wealth<br/>
and glory of her great emporium?<br/>
How closely would it draw the ties of<br/>
intercourse and union between the<br/>
British nation and herself? If she<br/>
would maintain her independence for<br/>
ages to come, what other course can she<br/>
take half so likely to secure it as by<br/>
such a union? Hence though Americans<br/>
as we are, our hearts burn within us to<br/>
exert our little influence to induce Si-<br/>
am to cultivate the closest intimacy<br/>
with her western neighbor, and not only<br/>
invite England to come and aid her in<br/>
making the railroad and the telegraph<br/>
line above spoken of, but also to con-<br/>
struct a ship canal across the isthmus<br/>
of Kraw. This would give Siam a<br/>
glorious name to be transmitted on-<br/>
ward to the end of time.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A government document.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The statement that the Siamese<br/>
government have forbidden or hin-<br/>
dered the establishment of any telegra-<br/>
ph line is not correct. The Siamese<br/>
government has not opposed—has not<br/>
forbidden any one, or any company to<br/>
make such a line. There was a certain<br/>
party which extended to government<br/>
a written proposition to construct a<br/>
telegraph line from Paknam to Bang-<br/>
kok. There were two proposals made<br/>
in regard to it. One was that the<br/>
party should have the exclusive<br/>
right of making and using the line<br/>
for a period of 25 years—forbidding<br/>
every other party from making any<br/>
other line within that period,<br/>
that at the expiration of the 25 years<br/>
the party would sell all right and title<br/>
in the same to the Siamese government,<br/>
and that the government should be<br/>
under obligation to purchase it whether<br/>
it could be used or not. The other<br/>
proposition was that during all the<br/>
period of 25 years the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment should guarantee that no part of<br/>
the telegraph line should be lost, and<br/>
if lost that the government shall make<br/>
it good.<br/>
Now the Siamese government can-<br/>
not accept of either of these proposi-<br/>
tions. She cannot promise to forbid<br/>
other parties making tele graph lines;<br/>
because an English company has al-<br/>
ready made better propositions than<br/>
these. They have already entered upon<br/>
negotiations for connecting a tele-<br/>
graph line from Bengal and British<br/>
India with Mergue. From thence<br/>
they propose to stretch the line<br/>
through Siamese territory from Kroh<br/>
to Ranawng—and thence to Takooda<br/>
P'óóng—thence to Takǒǒda P'a,<br/>
and from thence to Keddah. From<br/>
Keddah they will make it to Pre—<br/>
thence to Sallingkaw, Malacca, and<br/>
Singapore. They intend to extend it<br/>
to Sumatra, Borneo, Batavia, Austra-<br/>
lia and China.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the territory of Siam they<br/>
propose to be at the whole expense of<br/>
the work and the protection of it after<br/>
it is finished. Whenever any of their<br/>
servants shall seize any Siamese sub-<br/>
ject found guilty of stealing or other-<br/>
wise damaging the line, they will hand<br/>
said offender over to the Siamese au-<br/>
thorities for trial according to<br/>
the laws of the province in which the<br/>
trespass has been committed. Said<br/>
company do not ask the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment to forbid any other company<br/>
making a telegraph line, or ask her to<br/>
purchase their property after a certain<br/>
period, or to guarantee its security.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This proposal the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment has already received, and agreed<br/>
that whatever privileges the Malayan<br/>
provinces of Pre, Sallingkaw, Johore<br/>
and other Malayan countries shall grant<br/>
said company, the Siamese government<br/>
will do the same.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This line is a long one, and will<br/>
probably be of great advantage to the<br/>
country. The constructing of it is<br/>
not going to involve the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment very much in any way. She<br/>
is to have no trouble or expense in ma-<br/>
king or keeping it in repair.—All she<br/>
will have to do will be to dispense jus-<br/>
tice to persons whom the company<br/>
shall hand over for that purpose. The<br/>
wire and glass of which the line is to<br/>
be made are such things as thieves will<br/>
be likely to steal. The country abounds<br/>
with men who make a business of steal-<br/>
ing bits of iron, as nails, wire &c. to<br/>
exchange the same for candies and<br/>
match paper. And they will even<br/>
steal bricks from the pavement, and<br/>
bamboos, and mangrove wood and<br/>
bark, and plank from bridges in bye<br/>
places. They will even pull out nails<br/>
from buildings in such places. Such<br/>
things they do often.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now the Telegraph lines wherever<br/>
made will be continually liable to such<br/>
depredations. And if the Siamese gov-<br/>
ernment should establish a guard along<br/>
the line it would be like putting chains<br/>
day and night about the necks of the<br/>
persons in charge who are now free.<br/>
This would occasion great difficulty<br/>
and trouble. In desolate places it<br/>
would be like putting chains about<br/>
the necks of the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment. And the government thus wait-<br/>
ing to protect the line for hire, might<br/>
not get any pay, and if perchance she<br/>
get pay, it would not be a suitable<br/>
compensation for all her trouble in<br/>
guaranteeing the security of the prop-<br/>
erty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now if any company will undertake<br/>
to construct a telegraph line in Siam-<br/>
ese territory on the same terms as the<br/>
above, the Siamese government will<br/>
receive their proposition.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Government Notification.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chow Phya Prǎ'k-lang, a royal<br/>
counsellor, and Minister for Foreign<br/>
affairs, to J. M. Hood Esq. Consul for<br/>
the United States of America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir—I crave the honor of informing<br/>
you that I am in receipt of a letter<br/>
from Chow Phya P'ǒǒt'ǎra p'éi Sǎ-<br/>
mǒǒhǎ-nayok, who is in charge of the<br/>
taxes on houses, sheds, market-stalls,<br/>
boats, and floats, directing me to notify<br/>
all the resident consuls that the system<br/>
of taxation which the tax-farmers<br/>
have been authorized to follow in<br/>
collecting taxes from the people is<br/>
in a state of confusion with regard to<br/>
some of the smaller matters: while<br/>
the larger matters are working quite<br/>
acceptably. But there is a rubbing<br/>
and chafing in the operation of taxing<br/>
(the smaller vessels) because the taxes<br/>
formerly levied on larger vessels com-<br/>
ing from foreign lands to trade, as<br/>
square rigged vessels and Chins junks,<br/>
have been removed. And subsequent-<br/>
ly all carts were likewise exempted<br/>
from taxation because they come loaded<br/>
with merchandise from the jungles,<br/>
with articles that are taxed to increase<br/>
the government revenue. And again<br/>
persons coming in from the country<br/>
from whatever direction to work out<br/>
their taxes, beg that they may have the<br/>
privilege of loading their boats with<br/>
food and other provisions according to<br/>
their several necessities free from tax-<br/>
ation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[Hence] it is now the pleasure of His<br/>
Majesty the king to grant the people<br/>
of Siam the favor of freedom from<br/>
paying taxes on their small boats. But<br/>
all boats that trade from the Provin-<br/>
ces on the sea coast and from the rivers<br/>
(of the same) being freighted with<br/>
merchandise of various kinds going or<br/>
coming and thus causing the govern-<br/>
ment revenue to be increased, shall<br/>
still pay taxes as (formerly.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is now the pleasure of the king<br/>
to exempt from taxation such boats as<br/>
trade in the rivers, and that come from<br/>
the (inner) provinces—boats with masts<br/>
and sails, and small boats that are em-<br/>
ployed in the country. Taxes shall<br/>
be continued to be levied only on boats<br/>
that moor in the river and remain for a<br/>
time selling their goods from them<br/>
instead of having their goods sold from<br/>
regular market places and stalls—-using<br/>
their boats as stores much as the<br/>
floating houses are used, and boats laden<br/>
with brick and sand. As brick and<br/>
sand are not taxed, and houses, on land,<br/>
and houses on water, and market stalls,<br/>
and gambling sheds and places where<br/>
sundry merchandise is stored, govern-<br/>
ment begs the privilege of levying taxes<br/>
on all such boats and houses as from<br/>
the beginning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the old arrangement in regard<br/>
to sheds, market stalls, houses, and<br/>
floats in the range or neighborhood of<br/>
markets not employed in trading—-<br/>
interspersed among those that are ex-<br/>
empting such from taxation on the<br/>
score of their not being thus used, the<br/>
government now sees that they should<br/>
pay taxes equally with their neighbors,<br/>
because they occupy places in the mar-<br/>
ket that should be turned to account<br/>
for the support of government: but<br/>
their occupants refuse to employ them<br/>
for that purpose which is not right.<br/>
Hence it is proper that they should<br/>
be taxed and thus be obliged to con-<br/>
tribute their share in the business of the<br/>
market, that the country may be thus<br/>
benefited. And in regard to the mar-<br/>
ket which enjoys the benefit of a Police<br/>
force as a guard, it is proper that the<br/>
taxes on the buildings of the market<br/>
should be increased so as to pay the<br/>
expense of the Police force.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Issued on Wednesday the 4th Month,<br/>
the 13th day of the waxing moon, the<br/>
year of cow, and 7th of the decade,<br/>
corresponding with March 14th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir-—Having read an article in the<br/>
Bangkok Recorder the Siamese issue<br/>
under date of 17th March—-3rd No.<br/>
and 19th page, that four Chronometers<br/>
belonging to Europeans had lately been<br/>
stolen, and that two of the thieves had<br/>
been caught and the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment had not inflicted any punishment<br/>
upon them, we beg to insert in the<br/>
“Recorder” the following explana-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the international Court there is<br/>
a case of stealing a Chronometer which<br/>
occurred in 3rd month the year of the<br/>
cow—-7th of the decade. Lóóbang<br/>
Oopǎtate-t’ooi-hán seized a woman<br/>
who was found engaged in selling a<br/>
watch chain. And made a written<br/>
complaint to Kroma Mun warǎ-chák<br/>
t’aranōōp’ǎp the purport of which was<br/>
that other watch chains and other goods<br/>
had been stolen: but there was no men-<br/>
tion of any watch or Chronometer in that<br/>
complaint. When the case was inves-<br/>
tigated it was found, after going back<br/>
from the person in whose hands the<br/>
chain was to the 5th person, that<br/>
had successively possessed it, that<br/>
Chant’a and K’ong servants of Lóóbang<br/>
Oopǎtate-t’ooi-hán had stolen it from<br/>
him and sold it. The court then directed<br/>
Lóóbang Oopǎtate to deliver over Chan-<br/>
t’a and K’ong his servants to the court.<br/>
Lóobang Oopâtate could hand over to the<br/>
only K'ong, and Chant'a he could<br/>
not deliver up. As to K'ong, he<br/>
gave in testimony that on a certain<br/>
day Lóóang Oopàtato and his wife<br/>
being asleep-—he saw Chant'a go up<br/>
stairs and come down again, when<br/>
Lóóang Oopàtato awoke and said that<br/>
his watch with a gold case was gone<br/>
together with its chain. When he<br/>
learned that K'ong had given in this<br/>
testimony he made another statement to<br/>
court with regard to the matter, say-<br/>
ing that his gold watch had also dis-<br/>
appeared with its chain. The court<br/>
then took the mother of Chant's into<br/>
custody in the place of her daughter<br/>
as they did also the person who<br/>
stood as security to the wife of Lóo-<br/>
ang Oopàtato for Chânt'a so that these<br/>
should exert their influence to bring<br/>
Chant'a before court. The court then<br/>
offered a reward of 40 ticals for the<br/>
person of Chant'a. Now so long as<br/>
the person Chant'a who was charged<br/>
with the theft could not be found for<br/>
trial, how could the court punish any<br/>
other persons who were afterwards<br/>
involved in the matter of purchasing<br/>
and selling the stolen goods?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again. In the 4 month 9th of the<br/>
waxing moon the year of the hog—5th<br/>
of decade, about two years ago Mr.<br/>
Mason, Consul for Denmark, made a<br/>
written complaint to us that a Chro-<br/>
nometer belonging to Captain Polain<br/>
was missing. Capt. Polain made en-<br/>
quiries and found that it was in the<br/>
possession of Capt. Smith of the ves-<br/>
sel Marion, and begged that the court<br/>
would have the matter investigated.<br/>
The lawyers made enquiries at the<br/>
vessel Marion, which was a vessel be-<br/>
longing to the company of Phya<br/>
Chodûk-rât-sât'ée, and sent orders to<br/>
Phya Chodûk to deliver up the Chro-<br/>
nometer together with the person who<br/>
sold it. Phya Chodûk returned an-<br/>
swer that he would comply with the<br/>
order. In two or three days after<br/>
that, the purchaser of the Chronometer<br/>
delivered the Chronometer to the D[?]nish<br/>
Consul. The Danish Consul then sent<br/>
the Chronometer with a letter to us<br/>
that we might examine it, and having<br/>
done so, to return the Chronometer so<br/>
him requesting that we would stay<br/>
all further proceedings. In that let-<br/>
ter of the Danish Consul there were<br/>
no charges against any one whether<br/>
Siamese or European, or any other<br/>
for purchasing the Chronometer as<br/>
stolen property. When the Danish<br/>
Consul requested by letter that the<br/>
prosecution might be stayed we thought<br/>
it probable that the thief was a Eu-<br/>
ropean, and that therefore the Danish<br/>
Consul was so ready to drop the mat-<br/>
ter. Had he not requested the prose-<br/>
cution to be stayed, it would have<br/>
been continued until the matter had<br/>
been thoroughly investigated according<br/>
to law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the year of the rat—-5th of the de-<br/>
cade, Mr. Johnson had a Chinese ser-<br/>
vant-boy arrested and brought before<br/>
the International court. There was<br/>
a letter from the Dutch Consul to<br/>
Mãwm Rajoday-t'ei, stating that the<br/>
servant-boy had stolen a watch and<br/>
several other things. The court exa-<br/>
mined the boy but he would not con-<br/>
fess to any guilt. Mr. Johnson af-<br/>
firmed that there were persons that<br/>
would testify to his guilt, and that he<br/>
would bring them before court. But<br/>
he failed to do so, and hence the court<br/>
could not arrive at the truth of the<br/>
matter. Mãwm Rajoday-t'ei wrote to<br/>
the Dutch Consul requesting that he<br/>
would have Mr. Johnson appear be-<br/>
fore the court with his witnesses. But<br/>
he did not appear. Now in this case<br/>
not yet thoroughly tried, how could<br/>
punishment be inflicted upon the person<br/>
charged with'stealing the property?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The case which the Bangkok Re-<br/>
corder reports, that within the last 25<br/>
days a person went on board the ves-<br/>
sel Clio, and stole a Chronometer, has<br/>
not yet been reported to the Interna-<br/>
tional court. The court are hence of<br/>
opinion that the owner of the Chro-<br/>
nometer has not yet fixed upon the<br/>
person who stole it, and that to make<br/>
complaint of it under those circum-<br/>
stances would be labor lost. But it<br/>
is probable that the owner suspects<br/>
Siamese subjects of being concerned<br/>
in the theft. And hence the Bang-<br/>
kok Recorder has made the assertion<br/>
that the Siamese government is like a<br/>
machine that has become loose in a<br/>
vital part and consequently weak.<br/>
Now we beg to say in reply to that<br/>
assertion, that the government of Siam<br/>
is like a machine in good repair. But<br/>
steam engines go because of fire the<br/>
chief agent, and a watch goes because<br/>
of the key which winds it up. When<br/>
the fire is out, and the key lost, can the<br/>
steam engine or the watch go alone?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the truth is the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment, even, is like a stout machine fixed<br/>
firmly in its place. And should there<br/>
be any little thing out of order we<br/>
have those who are skilled in making<br/>
all necessary repairs, so that there shall<br/>
be no failure in the administration of<br/>
justice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Phya Pechapunes
Koon Song Pǎrǎnee
Koon Bawrirak
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Births.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At La Clayette (France) the wife of<br/>
J. M. Alloin, of the firm of Remi<br/>
Schmidt & Co. in this city, of a son,<br/>
on the 17th January 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 28th ulto. at her residence<br/>
in this city Mrs Nelson, wife of Mr.<br/>
Nelson Engineer, of a son.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per "Chow Phya." W.<br/>
H. Reid Esq. G. W. Virgio Esq. and<br/>
Mrs. Sirr.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per "Hera" from Hoog<br/>
Kong, arrived on the 3rd inst. P. Less-<br/>
ler Esq. Prussian Consul, and family,<br/>
Rev. Mr. Carden and family, and Mr.<br/>
Oestmann.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy in announcing the re-<br/>
inforcement of our missionary corps<br/>
by the arrival of Rev. P. L. Carden<br/>
and wife, who join the Presbyterian<br/>
Mission. They sailed from New York<br/>
on the 24th of last Oct. and reached<br/>
Hong Kong the 1st of March. They<br/>
came from China in the Siamese Bark-<br/>
intine "Hera" after a passage of 16 days
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Lessler and family, return from<br/>
China after an absence of about 4<br/>
months. We are glad to learn<br/>
that he and his are all in good health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The U. S. Marshal's sale of the pro-<br/>
perty once belonging to J. H. Chan-<br/>
dler Esq. of this city, was completed this<br/>
day P. M. The House and lot was<br/>
bought by Messrs. Scott & Co. for the<br/>
sum of $10,100 and the other property<br/>
brought about $1,500, as we have been<br/>
informed, which added to the previous<br/>
auction sale some weeks ago, amounts<br/>
to about $13,600.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam Ship "Conqueror" from<br/>
Hong Kong arrived here on the 1st<br/>
inst. reports having been attacked by<br/>
pirates on the 11th March at 3.30 p.m.<br/>
and after a severe struggle, in which she<br/>
had one man killed and eleven wound-<br/>
ed, was successful in beating off the<br/>
pirates and putting them to flight
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very sorry to report that<br/>
our friend and countryman Franklin<br/>
Blake Esq. is to take his final leave of<br/>
us to morrow as passenger per "Chow<br/>
Phya" for China via Singapore. The<br/>
breach his departure will make in<br/>
our American Society here, makes us,<br/>
even in the anticipation, feel lonely<br/>
and sad. He has been a fellow resi-<br/>
dent with us in this city nearly three<br/>
years, and has put a strong shoulder to<br/>
the wheel of American affairs in Siam,<br/>
and proved himself a New England<br/>
loyalist with us to the very core. We<br/>
pray for his future welfare in China<br/>
in connection with the House of Au-<br/>
gusting Heard & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EXTRACTS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Rocky Mountain Scenery.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One peculiarity is the great abund-<br/>
ance of flowers. At the East, the<br/>
meadows, the forests, and the unculti-<br/>
vated fields, are comparatively destit-<br/>
ute of flowers. But they abound over<br/>
all the West, even to the shores of the<br/>
Pacific. When spring comes, flowers<br/>
in endless profusion, of almost every<br/>
variety, fresh and bright with striking<br/>
colors, adorn the prairies of the West,<br/>
and turn them into a wild panorama<br/>
of beauty. California becomes "the<br/>
flowery land;" and amidst the bar-<br/>
renness, sage-brush and "perpetual<br/>
desolations" of the central "plains"<br/>
where nearly all vegetation fails, these<br/>
flowers assert their right to live, and<br/>
even now, in a physical sense, make<br/>
the desert bud and blossom like the<br/>
rose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So they sweep over and over<br/>
the mountains, springing up from slopes<br/>
of broken stone, festooning and over-<br/>
hanging lofty cliffs, peeping out of<br/>
crevices, hanging on to the least amount<br/>
of vegetable mold on the almost per-<br/>
pendicular rock, covering its ragged-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
monotones and sameness, or carpeting a whole<br/>
mountain side with ever-varying pat-<br/>
terns, in some of which one color pre-<br/>
dominates, and some another, some<br/>
coarse and large, and others very deli-<br/>
cate and beautiful, but in the aggre-<br/>
gate embracing a wonderful variety.<br/>
There seems no exuberance of floral<br/>
wealth and beauty, as if in mockery for<br/>
any who vainly might strive to cul-<br/>
tivate there any of the ordinary forms<br/>
of vegetation. It is also asserted that,<br/>
by the wonderful law of acclimation by<br/>
which men and beasts accustom them-<br/>
selves to altitudes and conditions of<br/>
climate that seem unnatural, these<br/>
most fragile forms of vegetable life<br/>
attain an uncommon hardihood, and<br/>
flourish on the mountains within de-<br/>
grees of temperature that would prove<br/>
fatal to them elsewhere. Plants that<br/>
we would gladly possess ourselves of,<br/>
by the tenderest care and culture, spring<br/>
up through banks of snow, and dot its<br/>
cold and colorless surface with sweet<br/>
flowers. Small wild fruits, like rasp-<br/>
berries, flourish and abound at an<br/>
altitude of nearly two miles. I remem-<br/>
ber toiling laboriously up a mountain<br/>
to a mining town. where the air was so<br/>
rarified that breathing and the action<br/>
of the heart were very much affected<br/>
by it, and where we seemed to be well<br/>
up with the snow-line lying on the<br/>
mountain over against us, and were<br/>
told by some Christain ladies that the<br/>
only way to keep up a Sunday school<br/>
through the summer in that place was<br/>
to have it at 8 o'clock in the morning;<br/>
for if the children once got out among<br/>
the raspberries, they could not gather<br/>
them together again, or at any later<br/>
hour!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Dr. Kendall in Hours at Home.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Triumph of Ideas.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Spectator.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is hard even for trained thinkers<br/>
intent upon their work to explain pre-<br/>
cisely why a true idea always wins—-<br/>
except indeed by saying what to-day<br/>
is an argument only with the Record,<br/>
and the Record's bitterest antagonist,<br/>
that the Judge of all the earth can do<br/>
only right, and that He is irresistible—-<br/>
but the fact remains. Great ideas have<br/>
strength. Let the strongest man in<br/>
Europe try a fall with the Emperor<br/>
Napoleon and he will be beaten, will<br/>
possibly end his days rowing about under<br/>
the lash through the bayous of Cayenne.<br/>
Nevertheless, as sure as the idea of<br/>
authority, so surely will Napoleonism<br/>
pass away, leaving only the trace a<br/>
beacon light leaves when it flashes on<br/>
a quagmire or a rock. Nothing on<br/>
earth at this moment seems so invincible<br/>
as English pauperism. It is pro-<br/>
tected by the faith of the strongest<br/>
people that ever lived, by the impreg-<br/>
nable earth wall of human ignorance,<br/>
by a wretched perversion of the word<br/>
of the Son of God, and it will fall never-<br/>
theless, fall till its defence will seem, not<br/>
to our "sons" or our posterity, but to<br/>
us, a momentary aberration which<br/>
volumes will be written to explain.<br/>
Ideas are stronger than armies, for they<br/>
can not only produce armies, as the<br/>
idea which led to the Crusades did, but<br/>
they can borrow armies, as the idea<br/>
which produced Abolition did, and as<br/>
the idea which demands justice in<br/>
Jamaica will do. Those good Tories<br/>
think they have a majority upon that<br/>
question, which is really an "idea,"—the<br/>
right of the British subject with pigment<br/>
in his cuticle to the same measure as<br/>
the British subject without pigment—-<br/>
and their view, though an improbable<br/>
one, is of course a possible one. What<br/>
then? The Sadducees may say the true<br/>
policy is to see that the people of<br/>
Jamaica are oppressed, and be silent<br/>
lest there should be a fuss about it,<br/>
and uncultivated people say things pleas-<br/>
ing to the Almighty but not to Oxford,<br/>
and the Sadducees will be for their<br/>
ends in the right. And the idea will<br/>
march on nevertheless, till it meets<br/>
some day, and at no long day, the<br/>
flesh, beautiful or hideous, which will<br/>
clothe it with the required physical<br/>
power, and the Sadducees will cower<br/>
first of all, and acknowledge, "Lo! here<br/>
is Truth armed." Fighting her is not<br/>
my business, but concession. Why<br/>
fight with expediencies which have be-<br/>
come strong? Whence the flesh is to<br/>
come from we know not, possibly from<br/>
some low greed for gain which only the<br/>
negro can secure to us, but come it<br/>
will at last, and then the idea clothed<br/>
and visible will rule with the tyrannical<br/>
sway which all Anglo-Saxon ideas as-<br/>
sume. Meanwhile it is well for the<br/>
few who have not lost the capacity for<br/>
intellectual faith to march on, carrying<br/>
their idea over an ever widening range<br/>
until at last the body is found, careless of<br/>
those who satirise them as fanatics,<br/>
dangerous to those who denounce them<br/>
as evil men, firm even against those<br/>
who, seeing as clearly as themselves,<br/>
will lend no hand to help because the<br/>
workmen reak so with their toil. Was<br/>
ever enthusiast, yet so silly a she who<br/>
first put a seed into the ground and<br/>
expected the rotten mite to grow!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Central Africans.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At a missionary meeting lay latley<br/>
held in England, Dr. Livingstone, the<br/>
African explorer, said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I should like to answer a question<br/>
that is often put to me, "What sort of<br/>
people are those you wander among?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now I should like to tell you that<br/>
they are very far from being savages.<br/>
On the sea coast they are rather blood-<br/>
thirsty, especially those who have been<br/>
in the slave trade, but when you get<br/>
about three hundred miles into the in-<br/>
terior, you meet with peop'e who are<br/>
mild and hospitable.—It is the duty<br/>
of each man in the village to give ev-<br/>
ery stranger his supper, and to shew<br/>
him every hospitality which lies in his<br/>
power. These people are not engag-<br/>
ed in hunting, as most inhabitants<br/>
of this country think they are, but<br/>
are employed in cultivating the soil.<br/>
They also manufacture iron, smelting<br/>
it from stone, and very excellent iron<br/>
it is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I brought home with me the last<br/>
time I was in England some of the ore,<br/>
and the iron was manufactured into an<br/>
excellent Enfield rifle. The quality<br/>
was exceedingly good, and equal to<br/>
the best Swedish iron.—They also<br/>
manufacture a superior quality of cop-<br/>
per, also articles of earthen ware and<br/>
basket-work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we first go among this class<br/>
of people, with the idea of their being<br/>
savages, it is rather singular, but I be-<br/>
lieve true, that they rather believe we<br/>
are savages. They do not understand<br/>
where all the black people who are<br/>
carried away go to. Thousands are<br/>
taken away annually, and you cannot<br/>
go any where without meeting with<br/>
slave parties. Men carry what are<br/>
called slave-sticks, with a fork at the<br/>
end of them, which are fastened a-<br/>
round the necks of the captives, so<br/>
that it is impossible for them to get<br/>
out of there or get at the other end,<br/>
by which they are tied to trees through-<br/>
out the night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The people I am now speaking of<br/>
imagine that the white people eat them.<br/>
They look upon us as cannibals, and<br/>
we look upon them as savages. Now,<br/>
if we take an impartial view of both,<br/>
we shall find that they are better than<br/>
each imagine one another to be.<br/>
—African Repository.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Pulpit in India.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is lying before us an article<br/>
from a Lahore paper, which, after de-<br/>
nouncing the sermons preached in the<br/>
Panjab pulpits, proceeds to inform its<br/>
readers that very little good is done<br/>
by the whole body of Indian chaplains.<br/>
If this be the case, it might be as well<br/>
seriously to discuss the question, how<br/>
best to get rid of the ecclesiastical es-<br/>
tablishment. * * * * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In supposing all to be true that dis-<br/>
interested people have to offer about<br/>
chaplains, we may be permitted to<br/>
question whether it is not slightly un-<br/>
fair to lay the omissions of a few at the<br/>
door of all. At the same time it is<br/>
open to enquiry whether there is not<br/>
some cause for the want of popularity<br/>
(we can find no better word) of this<br/>
body of men. In such an enquiry,<br/>
however, it must not be forgotten that<br/>
the chaplain is a paid servant of Gov-<br/>
ernment, that the people who discuss<br/>
his failings are not those who in any<br/>
way contribute to his necessities. If<br/>
he tries their patience he is not a tax<br/>
upon their pockets. His tithe and his<br/>
glebe, his fees and his pew rents and<br/>
Easter offerings, are all of them con-<br/>
tained in his Government salary of Rs.<br/>
500 or 800 a month. Those desider-<br/>
rata clericalia, moreover, which in<br/>
England sometimes take the form of<br/>
purses of gold, services of plate, rich<br/>
silk gowns, and cassocks, and occasion-<br/>
ally descend even to worsted-worked<br/>
slippers, are, as we believe, completely<br/>
unknown in India. When once the<br/>
Junior chaplain on Rs. 500 a month,<br/>
has become a Senior on Rs. 800 a<br/>
month, he has got all that even a 25<br/>
years' service in the country can give<br/>
him. No amount of energy, no su-<br/>
perior learning, no tact, no eloquence,<br/>
no number of children, will enable this<br/>
clerical machine to make up more than<br/>
Rs. 500 a month for the first twelve,<br/>
and Rs. 800 a month for the last thir-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
teen years of his Indian service. Whe-<br/>
ther a better system than this could<br/>
be devised for damping and extinguish-<br/>
ing any fire of zeal, or fervour of elo-<br/>
quence, or sparks of ambition the un-<br/>
happy man may have, is doubtful.<br/>
Conceive the commissioned officers of<br/>
the army being divided into captains<br/>
on Rs. 500 a month, and majors on<br/>
Rs. 800; with no staff appointments,<br/>
no higher grades to rise to during a<br/>
25 years' service; after which term<br/>
they are sent about their business with<br/>
a pension, that, if they have a family,<br/>
comfortably keeps them from starva-<br/>
tion—-could anybody expect a very<br/>
high state of efficiency in such a set of<br/>
officers? Of course clergymen are not<br/>
officers; then unfortunately they are<br/>
men; and (such is the infirmity of<br/>
human nature) men of a very superior<br/>
class will not spend the cream of their<br/>
lives in India for the pay of a Gov-<br/>
ernment Chaplain. It is prosaic and<br/>
and perhaps humiliating to take this<br/>
view of clerical work, but is it not a<br/>
true view? A clergyman is supposed<br/>
by many a layman, who is clothed in<br/>
purple, to be above all thought of "fil-<br/>
thy lucre;" to work only and always<br/>
from the highest motives and on the<br/>
lowest pay; to care not one button<br/>
how his wife is dressed, or how his<br/>
children are educated. But we can-<br/>
not help reminding those of the En-<br/>
glish Church who take this view, that,<br/>
as they enjoy the advantages of a mar-<br/>
ried as well as educated clergy, they<br/>
must take the disadvantages as well.<br/>
In England the poorer clergy have<br/>
hope to live on the hope of some day<br/>
obtaining preferment, if they can com-<br/>
mend themselves to their Bishop, or<br/>
have any thing in them; and mean-<br/>
while they take pupils, or dabble in<br/>
the wide field of letters, or sometimes<br/>
are half starved. Yet the very uncer-<br/>
tainty of preferment permits them to<br/>
hope that something will turn up in<br/>
their favor. In India, while Govern-<br/>
ment has no doubt given its chaplains<br/>
a fair competence during the 25 years<br/>
of their lives, it has done nothing more.<br/>
It has virtually closed the door of the<br/>
three Bishoprics to their ambition; it<br/>
has cut off their Doddingtons and<br/>
Stanhope.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
si magna licet componere parvis.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the two better paid Presidency<br/>
Chaplaincies; by its short-sighted par-<br/>
simony it is now denying to its older<br/>
servants the pension to which it has<br/>
declared them honorably entitled; and<br/>
bids all that are still in its employ, to<br/>
rest and be thankful on Rs. 800 a<br/>
month, as the ne plus ultra of a 25<br/>
years' residence in India. Were In-<br/>
dian chaplains Apostles; had none of<br/>
them families; or were all of them of<br/>
independent means, the system might<br/>
work well enough. But, as it is, to<br/>
expect extraordinary excellence with<br/>
such very ordinary payment, is in this<br/>
country ridiculous.-—Friend of India.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gentlemen.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps these are rarer personages<br/>
than some of us think for. Which of<br/>
us can point out many such in his cir-<br/>
cle? Men whose aims are generous,<br/>
whose truth is constant, and not only<br/>
constant in kind, but elevated in de-<br/>
gree; whose want of meanness makes<br/>
them simple; who can look the world<br/>
honestly in the face, with an equal,<br/>
manly sympathy for the great and<br/>
small? We all know an hundred<br/>
whose coats are very well made, and<br/>
a score who have excellent manners,<br/>
and one or two who are what they call<br/>
in the inner circles, and have shot in-<br/>
to the very center and bull's eye of<br/>
fashion; but of gentlemen how many?<br/>
Let us take a scrap of paper and each<br/>
make out a list.—Thackeray.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
What is the Test Oath
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The often-mentioned test oath which<br/>
Congress imposes on all its members,<br/>
and which is quite too large for nine-<br/>
tenths of the Southern elect to swallow,<br/>
reads as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I, A. B., do solemnly swear (or af-<br/>
firm) that I have never voluntarily<br/>
borne arms against the Government<br/>
of the United States since I have been<br/>
a citizen thereof, that I have volun-<br/>
tarily given no aid, countenance, coun-<br/>
sel or encouragement to persons en-<br/>
gaged in armed hostility thereto; that<br/>
I have never sought nor accepted nor<br/>
attempted to exercise the functions of<br/>
any office whatever under any author-<br/>
ity or pretended authority in hostility<br/>
to the Government of the United States;<br/>
that I have never voluntarily renoun-<br/>
ced my allegiance to the United States,<br/>
nor yielded voluntary support to any<br/>
pretended Government, authority,<br/>
power or constitution hostile or in-<br/>
imical thereto. And I do farther<br/>
swear (or affirm) that to the best of<br/>
my knowledge and ability, I will sup-<br/>
port and defend the Constitution and<br/>
Government of the United States, and<br/>
all laws made in pursuance thereof<br/>
against all enemies, foreign and domes-<br/>
tic; that I will bear true and faithful<br/>
allegiance to the same; that I take this<br/>
obligation freely, without any mental<br/>
reservation or purpose of evasion; that<br/>
I will well and faithfully discharge<br/>
the duties of the office which I am<br/>
about to enter, so help me God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Lo. Co. News
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—-</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">57</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">69</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">84</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Namsun</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">57</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Nasman</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED-–</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">102½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent2 >}}Steam made</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BROWN</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅞</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅜</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent2 >}}" HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">230</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">56</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>KORAT</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">310</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">630</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">195</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">27</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅞</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BEES WAX</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRADOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">315</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED MUSSELS</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 Pic.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">250</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td colspan="4">Tic. 16 P Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE . On Singapore 1 per cent<br/>
discount On Hongkong 3 per cent discount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS..Inside 35 cents, outside 30<br/>
cents per pl. rice to Hongkong, but higher<br/>
rates may be expected as there are but few<br/>
foreign shipping in port. The following<br/>
vessels have sailed since the 18th March:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Han. sch. "Sophia" to Hongkong with<br/>
rice 4,000 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. bark "May Queen" to Hongkong<br/>
with rice 6,000 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. brig "Katinka" to London with<br/>
paddy 30 pls. sugar 414 pls. sapan-wood<br/>
2,900 pls. tin 200 pls. sticklac 170 pls. teak<br/>
planks 27, guin-benjamin 10 pls. gamboge<br/>
6 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Heng Hoi"[?] to Hongkong<br/>
with rice 6,213 pls. paddy 216 pls. sapan-<br/>
wood 295 pls. saltfish 40 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Jupiter" to Saigon with a<br/>
cargo of red ebina.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Swed. Bark "Amoy" to Hongkong with<br/>
rice 4200 pls. sugar 1,504 pls. teelseed 404<br/>
pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British Bark "Victoria" to Hongkong<br/>
with 6,745 pls. sapanwood 94 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "St. Mary" to Hongkong<br/>
with rice 8,971 pls. paddy 561 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Brilliant" to Batavia with<br/>
sapanwood 800 pls. saltfish 1,500 pls. teak<br/>
planks 150.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British ship "Coral Nymph" to Hong-<br/>
kong with rice 10,500 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brem. bark "Brema" to Hongkong with<br/>
rice 7,620 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "Iona" to Hongkong with<br/>
rice 11,651 pls. sapanwood 138 pls. teak<br/>
planks 55.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British bark "George Avery" to Hong-<br/>
kong with rice 11,641 pls. sapanwood 80<br/>
pls. teelseed 137 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam schooner "Moridian" to Hong-<br/>
kong with rice 3,170 pls. teelseed 476 pls.<br/>
teak planks 260.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
April 4th the following vessels are loaded<br/>
ready for sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British Ship "Sir Lancelot for" Hong-<br/>
kong with rice 17,250 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Iron Duke" for Singapore<br/>
with sapanwood 820 pls. indigo 600 pls.<br/>
salt cassay 100, paddy 840 pls. white sugar<br/>
200, saltfish 200 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hanover brig "J. C. Fichte" met<br/>
with some damage on the bar, and was or-<br/>
dered back to Bangkok to discharge cargo<br/>
and go into dock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussian brig "Catharina" sprung aleak<br/>
outside the bar, and was ordered back,<br/>
surveyed, and sent into dock.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Some heartless persons had remarked<br/>
that however strenuously a teetotaler<br/>
may resist the use of fermented drinks,<br/>
he will surely come to his bier at<br/>
last.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A SATIRICAL French author says,<br/>
"When I lost my wife every family<br/>
with which I was acquainted offered me<br/>
another; but when I lost my horse not<br/>
one of them offered to make him good."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
— It takes but a moment to cloud a<br/>
lovely morning, and a slight misdeed<br/>
may mar the happiness of a life time
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
News Items
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FRANCE.—-The Senate has been em-<br/>
ployed on the Address in reply to the<br/>
Imperial Speech. The paragraphs on<br/>
Mexico and Rome were the principal<br/>
subjects of debate. The Bank of<br/>
France has reduced its rate of discount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BELGIUM.-—The King was, with<br/>
much ceremony, invested on the 12th<br/>
inst. with the Order of the Garter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.-—The Senate has<br/>
declared all natives to be citizens, ex-<br/>
cept Indians, without distinction of<br/>
colour. General Grant will visit Eu-<br/>
rope during the autumn. The Fe-<br/>
deral Debt has increased 47 millions<br/>
of dollars since January. A summary<br/>
of report of the special commission on<br/>
the internal revenue laws is given.<br/>
The New Orleans Price Current fears<br/>
for the cotton crop unless the freed-<br/>
men are kept to their contracts for<br/>
work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEST INDIES.—-the Royal commis-<br/>
sion to Jamaica has opened its pro-<br/>
ceedings, and the Island Legislature<br/>
has passed an Act authorizing the<br/>
evidence to be taken on oath. The<br/>
Judicial Commission appointed by<br/>
Governor Eyre to try persons charged<br/>
with sedition or rebellion has also<br/>
begun its labours.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOUTH PACIFIC STATES.—-The Span-<br/>
ish blockade is now confined to the<br/>
ports of Valparaiso and Caldera. Ge-<br/>
neral Prado, the new President of Pe-<br/>
ru, has declared that the “Chilian<br/>
conflict with Spain is altogether a<br/>
Peruvian question.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONTINENTAL COMMERCE WITH THE<br/>
FAR EAST.-—The Danish Foreign Of-<br/>
fice has, at the instance of the English<br/>
Government, given warning that ves-<br/>
sels navigating the China Seas should<br/>
carry a riffled gun for protection against<br/>
pirates.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The late thunder storm.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ACCUSTOMED as Singapore is to thun-<br/>
der storms, we question if ever before<br/>
since it came into European occupa-<br/>
tion it experienced such an electric<br/>
storm as raged yesterday between the<br/>
hours of eleven and twelve. Dense<br/>
masses of heavy rain clouds had been<br/>
gathering over the town for some hours<br/>
previously, and about half past ten<br/>
burst into a perfect torrent of rain<br/>
which the roofs of very few buildings<br/>
indeed could perfectly resist. The<br/>
streets were quickly flooded, and in<br/>
the suburbs for hours afterwards many<br/>
the suburbs for hours afterwards many<br/>
of the roads were submerged. About<br/>
half an hour after the rain commenced,<br/>
het first thunder pell was heard, so<br/>
loud and so sudden as to startle every<br/>
one. From this true flash succeeded<br/>
flash, and the thunder pealed with<br/>
scarcely any intermission, with deafen-<br/>
ing loudness, for over an hour, when<br/>
the storm appears to have spent itself;<br/>
though, unfortunately, its traces remain,<br/>
both in loss of life and property. As<br/>
will be learned from other paragraphs,<br/>
several vessels have had their spars<br/>
split, and many houses, we are in-<br/>
formed, have had their structure more<br/>
or less shaken. As far as we have<br/>
learned up to the present, five lives<br/>
have perished by the lightning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of a row of new buildings in<br/>
progress of erection in Queen street<br/>
was struck by the fluid, and the upper<br/>
portion of the side wall, toppling over,<br/>
fell upon the roof of the adjoining<br/>
house (No. 20 occupied by Manuel<br/>
Beins, a clerk in the Chief Engineer's<br/>
Office,) crushing through the roof and<br/>
upper floor of the building, and bury-<br/>
ing Mrs. Beins and her little brother<br/>
(a child of 3 years) who were endea-<br/>
vouring to escape from the house. As-<br/>
sistance was promptly rendered by the<br/>
neighbours, and they were quickly<br/>
exhumed; but too late Life was ex-<br/>
tinct. The house was most flimsily<br/>
constructed, one end of the rafters sup-<br/>
porting the second floor resting merely<br/>
on a rotten looking horizontal beam<br/>
extending the whole depth of the build-<br/>
ing, but the weight of bricks and tiles<br/>
was not sufficient to have broken<br/>
through had the floor been properly<br/>
supported. As it was, according to<br/>
the evidence of an eye witness, the<br/>
floor gave way gradually, and had not<br/>
Mrs. Beins been stupefied by fear she<br/>
might have escaped with life. An in-<br/>
quest was held, when a verdict of ac-<br/>
cidental death was given.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The third victim was a Chinese,<br/>
named Lim Chean, who had been in<br/>
the habit of keeping a stall, selling sea<br/>
weed and sugar cane near the red<br/>
light. He was struck dead by the light-<br/>
ning whilst taking shelter under one of<br/>
the large trees bordering the Esplanade.<br/>
He was marked along one side of the<br/>
body, and death was instantaneous.<br/>
He was taken to the Government dead<br/>
house, and an inquest was held on his<br/>
body at the hospital at 5 P.M., when a<br/>
verdict was returned, of accidental<br/>
death. The two other victims are<br/>
reported to be Klings who were struck<br/>
down while on board a Tongkang in<br/>
Harbour, but the particulars of their<br/>
case have not yet reached us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Strait Times.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A living faith is the best divinity;<br/>
a holy life is the best philosophy; a<br/>
tender conscience the best law; hon-<br/>
esty the best policy; and temperance<br/>
the best physic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Do not talk to your child of your<br/>
right over him, or of the limits of<br/>
your right; but exercise this right so<br/>
that the child shall feel and acknow-<br/>
ledge it himself, without thinking of<br/>
looking for its limits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Josh Billings says of the servants<br/>
at Long Branch: "Most of 'em ar<br/>
black, but many of 'em have lived so<br/>
long among the whites that they be-<br/>
gin to adopt their kuller."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE is hereby giv-<br/>
en that the business of<br/>
the China Traders Insurance<br/>
Company Limited will here-<br/>
after be conducted by Messrs.<br/>
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
to whom I have this day trans-<br/>
ferred the 'agency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, April 5th 1866.
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C. CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
wil be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S & Co with their patronage areassure-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
