---
linkTitle: 'February 1st, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - February 1st, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); February 1st'
date: 2025-12-02T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 28
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1st, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 4.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Piracy.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Report of the British bark
"Bentinck."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Bentinck, James Thomas, mas-<br/>
ter, put back having been surprised<br/>
by pirates, in Chino bay, on the morn-<br/>
ing of Saturday 9th December, with<br/>
loss of two men, portion of the cargo,<br/>
master's and crew's effects, ships stores,<br/>
furniture, &c. On the morning of<br/>
Monday 4th, sailed from Hongkong<br/>
bound to Ningpo, with a general car-<br/>
go, and crew consisting of 14 men.<br/>
All went well, and on Friday evening<br/>
the 8th instant, being in with Chino<br/>
Bay, and blowing a fresh increas-<br/>
ing gale from E to N. I considered it<br/>
would be advantageous, to the progress<br/>
of the passage to anchor in Chino<br/>
Bay, till 3 or 4 o'clock the following<br/>
morning. accordingly came to in 6<br/>
fathoms. At 5.15 P. M., set the regu-<br/>
lar watch, with orders to call all hands<br/>
if any suspicious craft were appro-<br/>
aching the ship. At 2.15 A. M. (Sa-<br/>
turday.) the second mate called all<br/>
hands, saying there was a junk appa-<br/>
rently coming alongside. We all got<br/>
on deck almost immediately, but in a<br/>
moment the junk sheered up on the<br/>
port quarter, heaving stink pots and<br/>
firing pistol shots on board as she<br/>
ranged alongside, I saw some of the<br/>
men run to the fire arms a few of<br/>
which were on the deck but as some<br/>
of the pirates were by that time on<br/>
board, I ordered them (my crew) not<br/>
to fire a shot, but to get down below<br/>
immediately as I considered it then<br/>
the only chance for their lives. We<br/>
then all made below. the deck being<br/>
by that time covered with pirates, I<br/>
called to those nearest me to get in<br/>
the lazarette, and one man and myself<br/>
got down. By this time the pistol shots<br/>
were firing down the cabin, and the<br/>
pirates had possession of the ship. They<br/>
then began to call out for the Captain.<br/>
The Chief mate came in the Lazarette<br/>
at this time, and immediately after<br/>
him what appeared to be the leader of<br/>
the Gang. He called to me to come up,<br/>
but I levelled a revolver at him, at<br/>
the sight of which he jumped up quick-<br/>
ly himself. A second man shortly after<br/>
came below the scuttle, but he went<br/>
up rather quicker than the first. I did<br/>
not fire at either of those men, as the<br/>
mate and man that were with us, and<br/>
myself, were certain that if I did, it<br/>
would be a signal for the murder of<br/>
all the crew. I finally agreed to come<br/>
up unarmed and at their mercy, the<br/>
mate to pass the pistol to the Chinese<br/>
afterwards. I considered throughout<br/>
the entire affair, that my death was<br/>
certain, but I now believe through<br/>
my sparing their leader, the crew that<br/>
I now have on board and myself were<br/>
spared our lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On their getting hold of me, the<br/>
apparent leader ordered me to show<br/>
him where the opium and 2000 dollars<br/>
were stowed. As we had neither, I<br/>
could not tell him. He persisted that<br/>
we had as he had information from<br/>
Canton that it was put on board. In<br/>
the mean time they were rifling every<br/>
place on board the ship, breaking the<br/>
hatches open &c., and dragging me<br/>
with them, with continual threats of<br/>
shooting me &c. As day was breaking<br/>
they all at once at a signal left the<br/>
ship, leaving me in the main hold. I<br/>
extinguished all the lights they had<br/>
been using, and watched the junk<br/>
leaving the ship. I then got on deck<br/>
and with the second mate, began to<br/>
muster the men, when we found two<br/>
missing viz. James Collier (A. B.) and<br/>
William Tally (A. B.) We think they<br/>
might have been chased over the<br/>
Bows and shot in the water. All the<br/>
remainder of the crew were unhurt,<br/>
myself being the only one with either<br/>
marks or bruises. The pirates had<br/>
robbed the vessel of a portion of the<br/>
cargo, ships stores, and furniture, and<br/>
crew's and master's effects and break-<br/>
ing the cabin lockers, and doors and<br/>
rifling the cabin of everything of<br/>
value.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
JAMES THOMAS.
Master.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fortnight which has since elap-<br/>
sed has been rather barren of polit-<br/>
ial events. Their is not a word of<br/>
news obtainable from Peking, where<br/>
Sir R. Alcock must have arrived at the<br/>
last of this month. The nature of His<br/>
Excellency's reception at the court at<br/>
Peking may in some degree indicate<br/>
forthcoming events, and therefore the<br/>
advices communicating his arrival are<br/>
looked forward to with some degree<br/>
of curiosity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to be pretty well understood<br/>
that anti-foreign Consuls are the order<br/>
of the day at Peking. There is no<br/>
doubt, either that Prince Kung was<br/>
degraded because of his supposed<br/>
pro-foreign aspirations, or that his re-<br/>
elevation to power is to be ascribed to<br/>
the discovery that this supposition was<br/>
a grave error. Since the late evacua-<br/>
tion of the Taku forts much labor and<br/>
outlay have been expended in streng-<br/>
thening the fortifications,—-in fact, it<br/>
is said that when the plan adopted<br/>
shall be carried out, these forts will be<br/>
impregnable except to iron-clads. The<br/>
proceeding is significant when taken<br/>
in connection with the anti-foreign<br/>
policy known to be cherished, but at<br/>
the same time there can be no reason-<br/>
able objection urged against the Chi-<br/>
nese government fortifying their Capi-<br/>
tal. On the contrary, the Mandarins<br/>
will surely find that whilst they will<br/>
be required to fulfill their proper du-<br/>
ties and to perform their responsibili-<br/>
ties, every measure adopted to streng-<br/>
then their hands and elevate their<br/>
prestige, will be heartily supported.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whereabout of Tseng-kwo-fan<br/>
is still a mystery, and the precise<br/>
position of affairs as between the main<br/>
body of the Imperial army under his<br/>
command and that of the Nienfei, is<br/>
not known with any degree of precis-<br/>
ion. Rumor still has it that the Im-<br/>
perial troops have suffered a defeat<br/>
and are retreating on the Yellow Riv-<br/>
er, and although these reports are not<br/>
authenticated, still they are generally<br/>
credited.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These Nine-fei insurgents are also<br/>
appearing in force far to the westward<br/>
of the scene of the Tseng-kow-fan's<br/>
operation. It appears that the Pek-<br/>
ing Cabinet ordered the Governor<br/>
General of the two Kiangs, (ex-Footai<br/>
Li) to dismiss all the foreign drill in-<br/>
structers mercenaries in military em-<br/>
ploy. Of these there are still a num-<br/>
ber at various posts, the whole being<br/>
British subjects with the exception<br/>
of a few Frenchmen. Li hesitated to<br/>
carry out the order and wrote to Pek-<br/>
ing for fresh instructions, representing<br/>
that the services of these mercenaries<br/>
at the present juncture were much re-<br/>
quired, and soliciting a postponement<br/>
of the order, which was granted. It is<br/>
probable that this circumstance was<br/>
the origin of the rumor which prevailed<br/>
to the effect that the service of the<br/>
foreigners in the customhouse employ<br/>
should be dispensed with at the end of<br/>
the year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An Imperial victory over the Tai-<br/>
pings attended with the death of the in-<br/>
surgent leader, is reported to have ta-<br/>
ken place at Fuhkin. The previous<br/>
impression was that the Taipings have<br/>
been driven out of the Fuhkien prov-<br/>
ince, and the accounts of the present<br/>
victory do not therefore sound very<br/>
well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would appear that some official<br/>
degradations have taken place in the<br/>
Province of Sze-chuen, and it is pretty<br/>
well understood that the Chinese gov-<br/>
ernment have accorded the French<br/>
Minister ample satisfaction for the<br/>
late outrage committed on the Roman<br/>
Catholic missionaries in the province.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prussian government has assur-<br/>
edly designs of some kind on Formosa.<br/>
Some few years ago they had a store<br/>
ship called the Elbe in these seas car-<br/>
rying a pennant-—the Commander of<br/>
her managed to embroil himself with<br/>
the authorities of Singapore, and also<br/>
with those of Hong Kong. He after-<br/>
wards visited Formosa, and embroil-<br/>
ed himself there. Some of his crew<br/>
whilst on shore on liberty were mal-<br/>
treated. This is said to be the pretext<br/>
for a demand for satisfaction on the<br/>
Chinese government, which demand,<br/>
rumour has it, is to be accompanied by<br/>
a requirement that the Mandarins shall<br/>
be responsible for the good behaviour<br/>
of Prussian subjects of the inhabitants<br/>
of Formosa, which, seeing that the is-<br/>
land is principally inhabited by vicious<br/>
untameable savages, is an impractica-<br/>
ble arrangement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hongkong Mint is expected<br/>
to be in operation in about three<br/>
months. The local authorities of this<br/>
colony, about two years ago, establish-<br/>
ed a small coin currency, which has<br/>
met with such singular success, that<br/>
the supplies (from London) which were<br/>
deemed liberal, have failed to supply<br/>
the demand. There is very little<br/>
doubt that the dollar to be coined here<br/>
will supersede all others now in circul-<br/>
ation in China, and so, a large pro-<br/>
portion of the silver which now finds<br/>
its way to London and New York, will<br/>
be sent here direct so soon as the line<br/>
of steamers between San Francisco<br/>
and this port shall be established. The<br/>
only fear is, that the local authorities<br/>
may mismanage the affair. They are<br/>
clearly nervous on the point, and have<br/>
already taken a very questionable step.<br/>
Uninfluenced by the experience which<br/>
they might have derived from the suc-<br/>
cess of small coin currency, apparently<br/>
oblivious to the desirability of feeding<br/>
the market gradually, they have an-<br/>
nounced that for the first two months<br/>
after the opening of the Mint, silver will<br/>
be coined free of seignorage! The<br/>
banks are clearly alarmed lest the new<br/>
currency should supersede the old, for<br/>
they have already decreased the circul-<br/>
ation of their notes about one half.<br/>
The Shanghai Chamber of Commerce<br/>
is also alive to the contingency, and<br/>
at a meeting on the subject it was<br/>
suggested that the device should be a<br/>
permanent one, and not the head of<br/>
the reigning sovereign—-an excellent<br/>
suggestion, which however came too<br/>
late to be available. The local govern-<br/>
ment would probably have confined the<br/>
operations to issuing a sufficient a-<br/>
mount to meet the pay of H. M. forces<br/>
and local requirements—unfortunately<br/>
the Home Government are dictating<br/>
such harsh terms as to render acquies-<br/>
cence almost ruinous to the colony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Trade Report Dec. 31st.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
Mutiny
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last fortnight has not been<br/>
signalised by any remarkable events<br/>
in the North, but a very important<br/>
inquiry has been held here before a<br/>
Marine Court, into the circumstances<br/>
of a mutiny which has taken place on<br/>
board a coolie ship called The Pride<br/>
of the Ganges. The vessel which left<br/>
Whampoa on the 8th of December,<br/>
came into Hongkong on the 1st of<br/>
this month, reporting that when off<br/>
the island of Hainan, the coolies had<br/>
suddenly and unexpectedly mutinied,<br/>
had killed the captain and purser and<br/>
had forced the mate and crew to take<br/>
them to Hainan. This was done, the<br/>
coolies all landed, and the mate then<br/>
brought the vessel back to Hongkong.<br/>
On the 6th the inquiry was opened<br/>
before a Marine Court. The chief mate,<br/>
Richard Vivers, said that the vessel<br/>
was a British barque commanded by<br/>
William Jack. She had been loading<br/>
with coolies at Whampoa since about<br/>
the 8th of October; altogether she<br/>
took in 301 coolies bound for Dem-<br/>
erara. The crew consisted of seven-<br/>
teen in all, the captain, two mates,<br/>
one supernumerary acting as purser,<br/>
storekeeper, coolie, steward, eight<br/>
able, and two ordinary seamen. The<br/>
only barricades on board were two;<br/>
one separating the married people<br/>
from the single men, and one keeping<br/>
the passengers out of the after cabin,<br/>
but interfering in no way with their<br/>
free circulation about the deck. They<br/>
were allowed to move about as they<br/>
pleased, on the poop or any where else.<br/>
The seamen slept forward and unarm-<br/>
ed, although they remonstrated with<br/>
the captain on this arrangement and<br/>
pointed out that they might all be kill-<br/>
ed if a rising should take place. There<br/>
were some few muskets on board, but<br/>
at the critical moment it appeared that<br/>
they were unloaded and that the am-<br/>
munition was not immediately at hand.<br/>
There had been some dissatisfaction<br/>
amongst the coolies before the ship<br/>
left Whampoa, about the rice supplied<br/>
them, which appears from the evidence<br/>
to have been of an inferior kind, and<br/>
also about the advances. The coolies<br/>
first engaged received $10 with which<br/>
they were content at the time, but the<br/>
market went up and the last batches<br/>
were engaged at an advance of $15.<br/>
The original coolies on hearing of this,<br/>
claimed the extra $5 and it was grant-<br/>
ed to them. In spite of this, the ris-<br/>
ing took place in the way discribed<br/>
and the captain and purser were murd-<br/>
ered very cruelly. The finding of the<br/>
Marine Court has not yet been deter-<br/>
mined on, but the moral of the whole<br/>
transaction is of the simplest kind.<br/>
Proper barricades to keep coolies from<br/>
the quarter deck, and loaded arms,<br/>
are just as essential to the safety of a<br/>
vessel carrying Chinese passengers as<br/>
the rudder and the sails.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Trade Report Jan. 15th
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Romantic story of Stratford,
Connecticut.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That such a town as Stratford should<br/>
afford anything in the way of romantic<br/>
personal history was hardly to be ex-<br/>
pected, but the subjoined story is au-<br/>
thentic as well as interesting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"At the commencement of the pres-<br/>
sent century a young man made his ap-<br/>
pearance in the village, and spent a<br/>
few weeks in the tavern which then<br/>
existed to afford shelter to stage coach<br/>
travelers. Whence he came and what<br/>
his business, none could guess. Di-<br/>
rectly opposite the tavern stood the<br/>
small cottage and the forge of a black-<br/>
smith named Folsom. He had a daugh-<br/>
ter who was the village beauty, and<br/>
it was her fortune to captivate the heart<br/>
of the young stranger.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He told his love, said that he was<br/>
from Scotland, that he was traveling<br/>
incog., but in confidence gave her his<br/>
real name, claiming that he was<br/>
heir to a large fortune. She return-<br/>
ed his love and they were married.<br/>
A few weeks thereafter the stranger<br/>
told his wife that he must visit New<br/>
Orleans; he did so, and the gossips of<br/>
the town made the young wife unhappy<br/>
by their disagreeable hints and jeers.<br/>
In a few months the husband return-<br/>
ed, but before a week had elapsed he<br/>
received a large budget of letters, and<br/>
told his wife that he must at once re-<br/>
turn to England, and must go alone.<br/>
He took his departure, and the gos-<br/>
sips had another glorious opportunity<br/>
to make a confiding woman wretched.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To all but herself it was a clear case<br/>
of desertion; the wife became a moth-<br/>
er, and for two years lived in silence<br/>
and in hope. At the end of that time<br/>
a letter was received by the Stratford<br/>
beauty from her husband, directing her<br/>
to go at once to New York with her<br/>
child, taking nothing with her but the<br/>
clothes she wore, and embark in a ship<br/>
for his home in England. On her ar-<br/>
rival in New York she found a ship<br/>
splendidly furnished with every<br/>
convenience and luxury for her comfort,<br/>
and two servants ready to obey every<br/>
wish she might express.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ship duly arrived in England,<br/>
and the Stratford girl became the mis-<br/>
tress of a superb mansion, and, as the<br/>
wife of a baronet, was saluted by the<br/>
aristocracy as Lady Samuel Sterling.<br/>
On the death of her husband, many<br/>
years ago, the Stratford boy succeed-<br/>
ed to the title and wealth of his father,<br/>
and in the last edition of the "Peerage<br/>
and Barontage," he is spoken of as the<br/>
issue of "Miss Folsom, of Stratford,<br/>
North America." When the late Prof.<br/>
Stillman visited England some years<br/>
since, he had the pleasure of meeting<br/>
Lady Sterling at a dinner party, and<br/>
was delighted to answer her many<br/>
questions about her birth-place in Con-<br/>
necticut.—-Lorain County News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A New Invention
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A London paper publishes a descrip-<br/>
tion of a curious invention designed to<br/>
catch Safe burglars. The depredator<br/>
no sooner commences, in perfect igno-<br/>
rance of the secret arrangements, to<br/>
force open the door, drill the lock, or<br/>
move the safe, than by doing so, he<br/>
sends a telegraphic message to the near-<br/>
est police office, exhibiting the number<br/>
of the Safe he is attacking, and this<br/>
number registered in the police<br/>
books, has opposite to the house the<br/>
address of the house in which the rob-<br/>
bery is being effected.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Soochow
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Liu, Acting Futai of Kiangsu, has<br/>
resigned his appointment in conse-<br/>
quence of constant squabbles between<br/>
himself and the Acting Governor—<br/>
general. He has based his request to<br/>
be relieved on the ground of being<br/>
obliged to retire from office and<br/>
return to his home in Honan in order<br/>
to soothe the declining years of his fa-<br/>
ther who has attained great age. The<br/>
Court of Peking has accepted his re-<br/>
signation, but no successor has yet been<br/>
appointed.{{< news/indent4 >}}Trade Report
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cyclone
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Bombay Gazette, Dec. 13.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Cyclone of great violence has re-<br/>
cently swept the Bay of Bengal doing<br/>
great damage to Shipping. We ap-<br/>
pend the following paragraphs taken<br/>
from the Madras journals —-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Loss of the Ship "Alaya." —We re-<br/>
gret, to hear that intelligence has been<br/>
received by Messrs Brainbridge, By-<br/>
ard Gair and Co., that the Ship Ala-<br/>
ya, which was one of those which left<br/>
our Roads on Saturday morning last,<br/>
has gone down off Pondicherry. The<br/>
captain and crew, we are glad to add,<br/>
were saved. It appears that one of<br/>
the steamers reported having seen what<br/>
appeared to be a wreck somewhere off<br/>
Pondicherry, and this probably gave<br/>
rise to the rumour as to the loss of<br/>
the Princess Royal.—-Madras Times,<br/>
Dec. 2.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are indebted to Messrs. Binny<br/>
and Co., the Local Agents of the B.<br/>
I. S. N. Co., for the following extract<br/>
from a letter dated the 1st instant,<br/>
written from Nagaptam, by Capt. Lew-<br/>
is of the steamer India: "You will<br/>
be interested to know, we passed, com-<br/>
ing here some dozen or more ves-<br/>
sels more or less damaged, three we<br/>
spoke. 1st French Barque Caprice<br/>
for Madras off Pondicherry, 2nd Brit-<br/>
ish Ship Darra, on her broadside, car-<br/>
go shifted and deck swept, 45 miles<br/>
N. N. E. Nagapatam. 3rd, British<br/>
Ship Hurry Hurren, with fore-mast<br/>
gone at anchor off Karricul." —-Id.,<br/>
Dec. 5.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Some men will do any thing for mo-<br/>
ney—-even good actions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—It is worthy of notice that General<br/>
Grant’s speeches grow longer and long-<br/>
er, and it may be questioned wheth-<br/>
er he will not become an orator by and<br/>
by. His last speech was ten lines long.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A little girl after returning from<br/>
church, where she saw a collection ta-<br/>
ken up for the first time, related what<br/>
took place, and among other things,<br/>
she said, with all her childish innocence,<br/>
that “a man passed around a plate that<br/>
had had some money on it, but I didn’t<br/>
take any.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The following toast was recently<br/>
pronounced at a fireman’s dinner:<br/>
“The ladies—-their eyes kindle the on-<br/>
ly flame against which there is no in-<br/>
surance.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He that good thinketh good may do,<br/>
And God may help him thereunto;<br/>
For was never good work wrought<br/>
Without beginning or good thought.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
-—Tennyson.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
February, 1st 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The latest news from the U. S. Ameri-<br/>
ca is to us exceedingly interesting."The<br/>
irrepressible conflict" is not yet over.<br/>
And while justice and injustice to the<br/>
four millions of Africans in the south-<br/>
ern states are the cause of it, we hope<br/>
and pray that it may never stop until<br/>
the African wherever found, shall be<br/>
acknowledged a man in every member<br/>
and faculty of his being, and as such<br/>
worthy of all the rights of the white<br/>
man. While the late civil war broke<br/>
the fetters of those millions of our<br/>
brothers, it failed to give them equal<br/>
rights with their white neighbors' of<br/>
equal grade of intellect and worthiness.<br/>
There are mighty and terrible influences<br/>
at work in the political arena of the<br/>
U. S. to prevent the Africans at the<br/>
South from ever blotting out the most<br/>
unmerciful stigma with which the<br/>
whites, by 200 years of slavery, have<br/>
branded them. A vast majority at<br/>
the South and a strong party at the<br/>
North are doing their utmost to pre-<br/>
vent the enactment of laws by which<br/>
any of them, even the well educated,<br/>
from ever coming to the polls, and thus<br/>
asserting that they are really and fully<br/>
citizens of the U. S. The following<br/>
extract from the N. Y. Independent<br/>
to so well expresses our views, we gladly<br/>
give it the place of our own editorial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"The Good Fight."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We reiterate our battle-cry of equal<br/>
rights! Many kindly voices and fav-<br/>
oring presses are swelling the appeal.<br/>
Every Sabbath adds to the cause some<br/>
new pulpit; every week-day, some new<br/>
editorial pen. As yet, the popular<br/>
voice only half expresses the popular<br/>
conscience. Like a smouldering fire,<br/>
there is a suppressed conviction on the<br/>
great subject, which, when it breaks<br/>
into full utterance, will sweep the<br/>
country. Among a free people a just<br/>
cause grows apace; every day adds<br/>
fiber to its trunk and greenness to its<br/>
leaf, till it stands at last a Cedar of<br/>
Lebanon. Already the belief posses-<br/>
ses a majority of Christian minds that<br/>
this nation was shaken with war in<br/>
order "that the things which cannot<br/>
be shaken might remain." These are<br/>
the great principles of Human Rights,<br/>
on which this Government is waiting<br/>
to lay its only sure foundation. These<br/>
principles which, in one form or an-<br/>
other, have always kept the American<br/>
people under the salutary necessity of<br/>
free discussion, are now coming them-<br/>
selves into a national question, and its<br/>
image and superscription is Equal Suff-<br/>
rage. To men who used to be mob-<br/>
bed for demanding the Abolition of<br/>
Slavery, it is now refreshing to see the<br/>
whole nation advancing like an army<br/>
toward the next great controversy—<br/>
Political Equality. Some over-wearied<br/>
friends are saying, "Let us now fold<br/>
our hands a while, and enjoy the pres-<br/>
ent victory." Not so! Stopping to<br/>
enjoy Capua, Hannibal lost Rome.<br/>
Stopping to-day contented with Eman-<br/>
cipation, we shall to-morrow lose Equal<br/>
Suffrage. Therefore, O friends, girt<br/>
your loins! Welcome the remaining<br/>
toils! The noblest discussion which<br/>
ever engaged a free people is now op-<br/>
ening. Of the result, we have no fear.<br/>
Never was our faith firmer, our hope<br/>
fairer, our zeal for labor in the Good<br/>
Old Cause more ardent, than in these<br/>
crisp October days!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President's singular declaration<br/>
that "Universal Suffrage in the South<br/>
would breed a war of races," so forci-<br/>
bly reminds us of the old story that<br/>
Emancipation also would create "a<br/>
war of races," that we will dismiss his<br/>
apprehension as too familiar a ghost<br/>
to be feared. The letter of Abraham<br/>
Lincoln found upon the dead body of<br/>
General Wadsworth declares that he<br/>
meant to grant "universal amnesty,"<br/>
and to exact universal suffrage." Did<br/>
Abraham Lincoln apprehend "a war<br/>
of races?" Not at all! On the con-<br/>
trary, he foresaw that Amnesty would<br/>
carry joy to the rebels, and Suffrage<br/>
joy to the negroes, and that, as a conse-<br/>
quence, instead of a "war of races" all<br/>
the bells would ring Glory Hallelujah!<br/>
O that the mantle of Elijah may yet<br/>
fall upon Elisha!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile we plant ourselves upon<br/>
the rock of EQUAL SUFFRAGE. Be-<br/>
lieving this position to be right, to be<br/>
manly, to be Christian, God forbid our<br/>
feet to be moved therefrom a single<br/>
inch—nay, a single hair! Through<br/>
evil and through good report, we trust<br/>
to be able to maintain an unwavering<br/>
testimony to the truth. We solemnly<br/>
believe that the word for the hour is<br/>
Equal Rights! This is the dictate of<br/>
Justice—-this is the claim of Human-<br/>
ity. Parties must heed it-—Adminis-<br/>
trations must conform to it! Its march<br/>
shall be as irresistible as Time! It<br/>
shall sweep with majesty into the Na-<br/>
tional Capitol, and, shall seat itself in<br/>
sovereignty as the Supreme Law of<br/>
the Land! To-day; in advance, there-<br/>
fore, we salute the coming victory, and<br/>
cry joyfully ALL HAIL."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Arrival of the Mail.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Chow Phya with the<br/>
European Mail of the 11th Dec. arrived<br/>
at Bangkok at 10 A. M. 28th instant. The<br/>
Chow Phya left Singapore on the 23d<br/>
and had fine weather throughout the<br/>
passage. Spoke the three masted<br/>
Schooner Hera off Pula Panjang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Steamer Viscount Canning<br/>
from Hongkong with dates to the 24th<br/>
arrived in harbour on the 31st.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M's Gunboat Coquette, from<br/>
Singapore, with dates to the 24th arri-<br/>
ved in harbour on the 31st.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Messrs Blythe, Hunter, Mc. Lood,<br/>
Thompson, and Bateman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passenger per V. Canning, Mr.<br/>
Shannon, Photographer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passenger per Coquette T. G. Knox<br/>
Esqr. H. B. M. Consul.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
TELEGRAMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York 9th December.-—Chilian<br/>
American sympathisers, at a great<br/>
Meeting held in New York, denoun-<br/>
ced European intervention in affairs<br/>
of American Continent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York 11th December.-—Ame-<br/>
rican Congress has expressed sympathy<br/>
with Juarez; French Ambassador send-<br/>
ing home for instructions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reported that French Embassy will<br/>
leave Washington if America appoints<br/>
an envoy to Juarez's party.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Royal speech at opening of Spanish<br/>
Cortez alludes to war with Chili—-en-<br/>
dorses recognition of Italy; reiterates<br/>
intention of watching over rights of<br/>
the Holy See, promises liquidation of<br/>
old debt and reduction of flowing one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The local telegraph bulletins have<br/>
reported for some days an interruption<br/>
in Indo European line on the cable<br/>
between Benghansi and Alexandria<br/>
and that messages go by post from<br/>
Malta.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EUROPEAN SUMMARY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(From the Home News, December 4)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The trial of the Fenian prisoners<br/>
in Dublin commenced on the 28th of<br/>
November. The first prisoner tried,<br/>
Thomas Lubby, has been found guilty,<br/>
and sentenced to 20 years' penal ser-<br/>
vitude.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Earl Russell, in reply to a depu-<br/>
tation from Bradford, said that the<br/>
working classes were now entitled to<br/>
be admitted to the franchise, but that<br/>
the Government bill must be founded<br/>
on facts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American and Canadian go-<br/>
vernments continue to make provision<br/>
against the apprehended movements<br/>
of the Fenians. Six companies of<br/>
volunteers have been called out in<br/>
Canada.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The liberation of the crew of the<br/>
Shenandoah has produced a hostile<br/>
feeling in America against England.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several of the agents of the Freed-<br/>
men's Bureau have officially called<br/>
attention to the fact that great suffer-<br/>
ing will probably exist among the ne-<br/>
groes during the approaching winter,<br/>
and that the mortality among them is<br/>
fearful and increasing. In one district<br/>
over 900 died out of a body of less<br/>
than 4,000 within six months. The<br/>
mortality among the children and the<br/>
aged is particularly great.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President has approved the sen-<br/>
tence of death passed by a court-mar-<br/>
tial in Georgia upon two white sold-<br/>
iers for the murder of a coloured wo-<br/>
man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Rev. George B. Cheever, one<br/>
of the most prominent abolition cler-<br/>
gymen in the United States, at a lec-<br/>
ture in his church in New York, made<br/>
a most violent assault upon the course<br/>
adopted by President Johnson, with<br/>
whom he declared the Northern people<br/>
were greatly dissatisfied, and who was<br/>
acting as though he owned the coun-<br/>
try, and could do with its inhabitants<br/>
as he pleased. The speaker further<br/>
declared that Mr. Johnson acted more<br/>
like a counsel for the rebels than Pre-<br/>
sident of the United States, and that<br/>
public opinion—long suppressed—<br/>
would soon be heard against him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The discharge of Captain Waddell<br/>
and his crew by the British authorities<br/>
was unconditional, and not restricted<br/>
by parole as at first reported. We<br/>
should not be too quick in construing<br/>
this to be an unfriendly act of the<br/>
new cabinet. The fact that our mi-<br/>
nister did not ask the detention of any<br/>
one connected with the ship is an in-<br/>
dication that in his judgment no such<br/>
claim could be sustained. In our pre-<br/>
sent limited knowledge of the facts, it<br/>
is our business to assume that he re-<br/>
frained from acting for good reasons.<br/>
We cannot consistently blame the Bri-<br/>
tish Government for failing to make<br/>
an extradition which was never de-<br/>
manded. Moreover, the surrender of<br/>
the Shenandoah to our consul at Liver-<br/>
pool as a Confederate war vessel, and<br/>
his acceptance of the ship in that<br/>
character, precludes us from all com-<br/>
plaint against the British authorities<br/>
for discharging the officers and crew.<br/>
We could have no claim for the ex-<br/>
tradition of those men, except as pi-<br/>
rates. Whether piracy committed up-<br/>
on ships on the high seas comes with-<br/>
in the scope of the Ashburton treaty,<br/>
which relates only to felonies commit-<br/>
ted "within the jurisdiction" of either<br/>
nation, is a debatable point. But were<br/>
our claim for the extradition for pira-<br/>
cy under the treaty ever so clear, we<br/>
should be stopped from pursuing it by<br/>
our acceptance of the ship as a Con-<br/>
federate vessel of war. If the vessel<br/>
itself retained that belligerent charac-<br/>
ter, no hostile act committed against<br/>
our commerce by those on board of it<br/>
could have been piratical. Having ac-<br/>
cepted the Shenandoah as a Confede-<br/>
rate vessel, it is not for us to denounce<br/>
the British Government for treating<br/>
its officers and crew as mere belliger-<br/>
ents, and not trying them for piracy<br/>
in its own tribunals. Yet it is morally<br/>
certain that the actual offence of pi-<br/>
racy was committed. Conceding that<br/>
the Shenandoah had a belligerent<br/>
character up to the close of the re-<br/>
bellion, and indeed up to the time<br/>
when the news of that close reached<br/>
the seas which the ship was infesting,<br/>
it then lost that character, and became<br/>
a cruiser without a flag. Captain Wad-<br/>
dell's pretence that he continued to<br/>
sail for months ignorant that the Con-<br/>
federacy no longer existed, is bold<br/>
impudence. He had no official noti-<br/>
fication of the "fact," and could have<br/>
none, because the authority which<br/>
commissioned him no longer existed.<br/>
But American captains have made<br/>
affidavit that they personally made<br/>
known to him the fact of the termi-<br/>
nation of the war long before he ceased<br/>
to make war. What is more, proba-<br/>
ble not one of the vessels which he<br/>
boarded and destroyed during the<br/>
summer months was without some<br/>
newspaper from the Pacific coast, or<br/>
other quarter, abounding with conclu-<br/>
sive evidence that the Confederacy<br/>
had come to an end. There has not<br/>
been a copy of an American newspa-<br/>
per published for the last seven months<br/>
from which any man not absolutely<br/>
idiotic could not gather that the Rich-<br/>
mond government was no longer in<br/>
existence. Waddell unquestionably<br/>
knew all through the summer that he<br/>
was robbing and burning without any<br/>
living authority; and yet, according<br/>
to his own published statement, it was<br/>
the very last day of summer before<br/>
he shipped his guns and stopped his<br/>
work. Whatever he may originally<br/>
have been, he became a pirate to all<br/>
intents and purposes; and no pirate<br/>
ever more richly deserved hanging.<br/>
Were he in the hands of our govern-<br/>
ment, hanging would almost certainly<br/>
be his fate. But as the matter has<br/>
turned, he has as good a prospect as<br/>
any other man of dying in his bed.<br/>
It is a curious result, and not very<br/>
creditable to the boasted civilisation<br/>
and law of the age. N. Y. Times.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mexico.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from Mexico is even more<br/>
than usually contradictory. The recent<br/>
report that the Imperialists had aban-<br/>
doned the Northern States, and were<br/>
concentrating at Mexico, Vera Cruz,<br/>
and San Luis Potosi, to await the ar-<br/>
rival of reinforcements, is effectually<br/>
contradicted. Vera Cruz dates to Nov-<br/>
ember 13th state that Michoacan and<br/>
Oajaca had been cleared of Republi-<br/>
cans and guerillas, and that a force of<br/>
600 under General Guzman, had been<br/>
captured, and the leaders shot, in ac-<br/>
cordance with the recent decrees by<br/>
Maximillian. The emperor had ap-<br/>
pointed General J. B. Magruder, late<br/>
of the Confederate army, surveyor-<br/>
general of colony lands.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The arrival in Paris a few days ago<br/>
of the American General Schofield has<br/>
given rise to much comment in the<br/>
Paris press. It is said that he is en-<br/>
trusted with the rather delicate task of<br/>
negotiating for the withdrawal of the<br/>
French troops from Mexico, and for<br/>
an alliance offensive and defensive be-<br/>
tween Paris and Washington in the<br/>
contingency of a war with England. <br/>
But the Constitutionnel says the<br/>
French government has no knowledge<br/>
of any such mission, and the writer<br/>
adds that he believes the news to be<br/>
pure invention. Another announce-<br/>
ment is that the general is not entrusted<br/>
with any political mission, and that he<br/>
visits Europe for the benefit of his<br/>
health, with the intention of making<br/>
a lengthened stay on the continent.<br/>
The other papers, however, persist in<br/>
asserting that General Schofield is en-<br/>
trusted with a mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the Home News Dec. 11th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen's assent to the marriage<br/>
of Prince Christian of Schleswic-Hol-<br/>
stein to the Princess Helena has been<br/>
notified in the "Gazette."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen will open Parliament<br/>
in person, but will not wear the robes<br/>
of State, and the Lord Chancellor will<br/>
read the speech.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Schofield has arrived in Pa-<br/>
ris from the United States, and is said<br/>
to be charged with a mission respect-<br/>
ing the withdrawal of the French<br/>
troops from Mexico. His alleged mis-<br/>
sion has been affirmed and denied by<br/>
different papers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Shenandoah has been forced<br/>
by stress of weather to put back to<br/>
Liverpool.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Theresa Yelverton has brought<br/>
an action in Scotland for defamation<br/>
against the "Saturday Review," Ver-<br/>
dict for the defendant.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rome is reported to be in an unfa-<br/>
vorable condition. The people are much<br/>
exasperated against the government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Republicans in Mexico have<br/>
raised siege of Matamoras.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A movement for the erection of a<br/>
national monument to the late Lord<br/>
Palmerston has commenced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The twenty-first anniversary of the<br/>
Princess Alexandra's birth has been<br/>
celebrated with the customary hon-<br/>
ors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A destructive fire has occurred in<br/>
Liverpool, causing a loss of upwards<br/>
of £200,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Stephens, the escaped Fenian<br/>
"Head Centre," is reported to be in<br/>
Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following interesting notes of the<br/>
late Soksö festival are from one of our<br/>
correspondents. They supply well that<br/>
which was wanting in our own article on<br/>
the 18th ulto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Notes of the order of the Proces-<br/>
sion on the Hair cutting of Som-<br/>
detch Chow-fa Choo-la-lon-horn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st. The bearers of the golden<br/>
umbrellas and other sun shades.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2nd. 12 Gentlemen selected from<br/>
the highest ranks of the nobility—6<br/>
on either side of the Sedan on which<br/>
the young prince was carried, to guard<br/>
him on his way to his royal father.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3rd. Four Amazons richly dressed<br/>
in green and gold.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4th. Three little girls dressed in<br/>
gold, gold cloth and ornamented head<br/>
gears decked with precious stones of<br/>
great value. The centre one held a<br/>
beautiful tail of the peacock, and the<br/>
other two gold and silver branches,<br/>
sparkling with leaves and rare flowers,<br/>
who danced to the gentle monotone<br/>
movement made by the Bendes, and<br/>
guarded by two elderly ladies on each<br/>
side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5th. Then came two Bhramins<br/>
holding golden vases or cups full of<br/>
parched rice or "Khow t'awk" which<br/>
they scattered on either side, an<br/>
emblem of plenty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6th. Four Bhraminesses holding<br/>
Bandos in their hands, which they rat-<br/>
tled too and fro as they moved along.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
7th. Two young nobles dressed<br/>
very richly, who held golden vases, in<br/>
shape not unlike the lotus flower when<br/>
half blown, in which nestled the birds<br/>
called "nok kurrawaks"[?] the ex-<br/>
quisite melody of whose voice is suppos-<br/>
ed to charm the wild beasts of the forest,<br/>
so that when they hear its song they<br/>
forget to seize their prey, and the<br/>
latter are also so beguiled that they<br/>
forget to escape from their natural<br/>
foes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
8th. A troop of young boys, the<br/>
rising nobility of Siam, richly dressed<br/>
and covered with gold collars and neck-<br/>
laces.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
9th. Another line of boys repre-<br/>
senting the Indians of Bengal.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
10th. do the Malayan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
11th. do the Chinese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
12th. do the Cochin-Chinese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
13th. do the English.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
14th. Infantry, or His Majesty's<br/>
foot soldiers headed by Pioneers with<br/>
pick-axes, and in front of all marched<br/>
the Japanese soldiers. The men in long<br/>
rose colored robes with tapering caps<br/>
were supposed to represent the guardian<br/>
angels attending on nations. The men in<br/>
deep scarlet, were the musicians, they<br/>
marched in front and behind the prince<br/>
and imitated the crys of birds, the<br/>
sound of falling fruit and rushing of<br/>
waters on the sacred mount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The order of the progression behind<br/>
the golden sedan chair, in which was<br/>
borne H. R. H. C. O. was somewhat<br/>
as follows—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Four young damsels of the highest<br/>
rank holding his betel box, spittoon,<br/>
and two richly ornamented swords.<br/>
Then followed seven damsels of high<br/>
birth also holding or bearing tightly<br/>
in both hands his vessels of pure gold,<br/>
and other insignia of royalty, brought<br/>
up by another holding over her right<br/>
shoulder a golden fan,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then came a troop of young child-<br/>
ren, the daughters of the nobility of<br/>
Siam, brilliantly dressed and decor-<br/>
ated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which the highest maids of hon-<br/>
or, attendants of His Majesty the King,<br/>
beautifully and chastely dressed, though<br/>
wearing heavy gold chains, and rings<br/>
of great value. And behind them<br/>
came persons representing—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent4 >}}English Ladies, in crinolines<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}English Children,<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Chinese Ladies,<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Japanese do,<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}Malay do,<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}and the Karians,<br/>
and lastly all the female slaves and re-<br/>
tainers of the young prince.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the foot of the hill was seen two<br/>
Yaks with long beards, holding in<br/>
their hands weapons of marvelous<br/>
power, and supposed to be riding on<br/>
eagles, guarding the sacred mount from<br/>
all irreverent approach. A little fur-<br/>
ther off, close to the artificial peacock,<br/>
were seen a number of young men<br/>
supposed to represent the kings and<br/>
chiefs of the various dependencies of<br/>
Siam, who are coming to witness the<br/>
ceremonies of the hair cutting, and<br/>
who perform a sort of simultaneous<br/>
war dance as they chant "O rah pho<br/>
cha pi Krai lat" on which the Yaks<br/>
or evil angels point out to them their<br/>
deadly weapons chanting "O rah pho<br/>
nope thâng pooâng" the monarchs<br/>
are then seen to drop down, and so on<br/>
alternately.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The persons of the mythology of<br/>
the Hindoos was represented first by<br/>
His Majesty who was the Phra In<br/>
Suan himself, then by H. E. the Phya-<br/>
Kalahome who was one of the chief<br/>
P. I. S. under the name of Sis Summo<br/>
Karn and the other by H. E. Phya<br/>
Phoo t'sra P'ie, another angel under<br/>
the name of Mah Soh Lee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sacred hill is supposed to be<br/>
guarded on the N. S. E. and W. by<br/>
the lion, the elephant, the horse, and<br/>
the cow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king, dressed in state, receives<br/>
the young prince from his nobles,<br/>
places him at his right hand, and pre-<br/>
sents him to the multitude assembled<br/>
who do him homage. After which he<br/>
is handed to two honorable ladies, sis-<br/>
ters of His Excellency the Prime Mi-<br/>
nister, who carefully conducted him<br/>
down the marble steps of the Pavilion,<br/>
at the foot of which stand two young<br/>
and pretty damsels, who put his feet<br/>
into a silver basin, pour on them wa-<br/>
ter from a silver urn, wiping them in<br/>
fine linen. On his way to the Phra<br/>
Sârt he is met by another group of<br/>
beautifully dressed damsels, who dance<br/>
before him holding palms and bran-<br/>
ches of gold in their hands. He is<br/>
then conducted to an inner chamber<br/>
of the Phra Sârt which is prepared to<br/>
receive him, is seated on a "Ken-<br/>
kaub" carpet heavily fringed with gold,<br/>
and made to recline on a golden cush-<br/>
ion; before him was an alter with six<br/>
lighted candles, six gold vases con-<br/>
taining roasted rice, or Khow tawk, and<br/>
six others with fresh flowers as offer-<br/>
ings. In his hand is placed a strip of<br/>
palmyra leaf on which is inscribed a<br/>
line taken from the sacred Buddhistic-<br/>
al books as a charm. Four young<br/>
damsels, also richly dressed, fan him,<br/>
and he is fed in small delicate morsels<br/>
by the ladies in waiting, which he opens<br/>
his mouth to receive at their hands.<br/>
A soft looking round ball of raw<br/>
thread which is here used (as did the<br/>
Romans of old) to keep out witchcraft,<br/>
the ends of which is first bound tightly<br/>
round the sacred hill, and then carried<br/>
into the Phra Suan, and laid on the<br/>
head of the young prince, from which<br/>
is carried nine threads over the altar<br/>
and the dividing screen into the next<br/>
chamber, where the royal priesthood of<br/>
Siam are seated. In to the palms of their<br/>
folded hands they are passed along,<br/>
and backward forming a magic circle<br/>
to receive effectual consecration and<br/>
benediction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the top-knot is removed, the<br/>
young prince is dressed in a new suit,<br/>
makes handsome offerings to the priests,<br/>
and is conducted to the foot of the hill<br/>
to receive his bath, when the custodians<br/>
from the N. S. E. and W. of the sa-<br/>
cred mount assemble to pour upon him<br/>
the sacred waters from their mouths.<br/>
His Majesty, who represented Phra<br/>
In Suan, then ascends the top of the<br/>
mount.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After which the prince is conducted<br/>
by his chief augels[?]—the two Prime<br/>
Ministers, to receive his blessing.<br/>
For three evenings after the top-knot<br/>
has been removed votive offerings are<br/>
made by lighted tapers being carried<br/>
round and round the hill, and the<br/>
younger royal brothers perform a war<br/>
dance during the offering.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was the time when the presents<br/>
were made to the young prince, and it<br/>
was astonishing to see the contribu-<br/>
tions in gold, money, jewels, etc, that<br/>
were laid at his feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The presents made by the king were<br/>
also enormous. All the nobles and<br/>
chiefs received gold birds, little boxes<br/>
of gold jewels &c. All the nobles<br/>
who took a part in the procession re-<br/>
ceived four ticals each day. The cap-<br/>
tains and officers from two to four<br/>
ticals a day. The children of the nobles,<br/>
from two and upwards a day. The<br/>
ladies according to their rank from two<br/>
to four a day; and all the soldiers and<br/>
commoners two salungs a day. Bands-<br/>
men two salungs; the masters from<br/>
two to four; and the English cook $60<br/>
per day: besides several extensive<br/>
kitchens which were erected in the<br/>
grounds of the palace, in some of<br/>
which one hundred Chinese were seen<br/>
cooking from morning to night, where<br/>
all, high, low, rich and poor were in-<br/>
vited to partake freely at all hours of<br/>
the day and night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At eight o’clock at night there was<br/>
a procession of torches and lamps with<br/>
Phra, In Suan borne in the midst,<br/>
which terminated in brilliant fire<br/>
works.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
A translation.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A royal Mandate.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Issued on the 7th-of January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is to communicate the sad<br/>
intelligence that the younger full<br/>
brother of His Majesty the supreme<br/>
king, generally known by the title P'rà<br/>
Bât Somdêtch P'rà Pin-Klow Chów-<br/>
yu-hua, as also by the still more com-<br/>
mon title The Wâng-nà had long been<br/>
sick of a disease depriving him of all<br/>
relish for food, and producing a con-<br/>
tinual state of vigilance by which he<br/>
scarcely ever obtained any refreshing<br/>
repose. His strength steadily declined.<br/>
The royal physicians prescribed for<br/>
him, and the shampooing doctors did<br/>
their best to afford relief. Many times<br/>
the disease would appear to yield and<br/>
as often to relapse. From the 7th<br/>
Siamese month (June 1865) until<br/>
the fore part of the 1st month (latter<br/>
part of Nov.) his symptoms became<br/>
much more alarming in spite of all<br/>
that the whole corps of royal physi-<br/>
cians could do. On Sunday Jan. 7th<br/>
at 18 minutes past 9 o'clock A. M. His<br/>
Majesty the late 2nd king departed<br/>
this life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty the supreme king, be-<br/>
ing present with his full-younger<br/>
brother, gave commands to the per-<br/>
sons to whom it belonged, to prepare<br/>
the royal corpse with all the usual in-<br/>
signia of royalty, and place it in the<br/>
royal urn; and had the urn placed on<br/>
the throne called Itisrn-winichei in<br/>
the 2nd king's palace, according to<br/>
the custom in vogue for deceased<br/>
kings during the three last reigns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This being done, His Majesty issued<br/>
commands to the two Prime Minis-<br/>
ters of the South and North, and the<br/>
Minister of Foreign affairs to write<br/>
letters under their respective seals to<br/>
all the Provinces at the South and at<br/>
the North, and to foreign countries,<br/>
and to all nations in treaty relations<br/>
with Siam, giving all to learn the sad<br/>
intelligence of the demise of His Ma-<br/>
jesty the late king of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were also royal orders then<br/>
issued that all citizens of Siam who<br/>
have taken the oath of allegiance un-<br/>
der lords and masters, together with<br/>
the prai Loong (people belonging<br/>
especially to the king,) and the com-<br/>
mon people who belong to nobles, lords,<br/>
and masters under the jurisdiction of<br/>
the WANGNA (second king,) and to all<br/>
governors under said jurisdiction as<br/>
well as nobles, lords, and magistrates.<br/>
Let all such together with their wives<br/>
and children, -dependants and slaves,<br/>
male and female, every one, shave his<br/>
head. Let none be excused excepting<br/>
children wearing their top-knots, and<br/>
persons whose custom it is to wear a<br/>
ope, and Chinese and women who are<br/>
accustomed to wear long hair. But<br/>
all persons who cut their hair as the<br/>
Siamese do, both male and female, let<br/>
every one of these resolve to submit<br/>
to this custom of showing respect to<br/>
the younger full-brother of the king<br/>
—the Pra-bat Somdetsh P'ra Pin<br/>
Klow Chôw-ya-hua, whose royal re-<br/>
mains are now in the palace of the<br/>
WANGNA.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let all such as are above designated<br/>
shave their heads on the 1st day of<br/>
every moon from the 3rd Month until<br/>
the funeral obsequies for His Majesty<br/>
the late second king shall have been<br/>
closed in the of the year of the tiger<br/>
(March 1867) the 8th of the decade.<br/>
Chinese who are marked on the back<br/>
of the hand and come under the ju-<br/>
risdiction of the WANGNA, let all such<br/>
attach white silk instead of black to<br/>
their cues, and thus follow their own<br/>
custom for showing respect to the<br/>
royal dead.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But all Siamese and Chinese, male<br/>
and female, who belong to the juris-<br/>
diction of the WANG-LUANG (the su-<br/>
preme king) or who fall under the ju-<br/>
risdiction of foreigners, themselves,<br/>
their wives and children, their servants<br/>
and slaves, male and female, who are<br/>
not in any proper sense under the<br/>
jurisdiction of the WANGNA, none such<br/>
are at all required by this command<br/>
to shave their heads or wear white<br/>
silk attached to their cues. Let all such<br/>
dress their heads as they have been<br/>
daily accustomed to do. Those who<br/>
belong to the class of foreign Malays<br/>
who are accustomed to shave their<br/>
heads as an habitual practice, let them<br/>
continue that practice. This royal or-<br/>
der is designed only for those who are<br/>
in any proper sense under the juris-<br/>
diction of the WANGNA throughout<br/>
the city of Bangkok and throughout<br/>
all the provinces of the kingdom who<br/>
are under the oath of allegiance to the<br/>
late second king.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL ITEMS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A royal Birth.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Birth of another royal son being the<br/>
77th offspring, and the 39th son of H.<br/>
M. the Supreme King of Siam, from<br/>
the 29th mother being the 2nd, at 11<br/>
minutes past 5. A. M. civil day, 30th<br/>
January 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to learn that Mr.<br/>
Thomson, (as per Advertisement in<br/>
another column,) will leave the splend-<br/>
ed views he has taken in Bangkok and<br/>
other principal cities of Siam, in the care<br/>
of Capt. S. J. B. Ames, Commissioner<br/>
of Police, where they can seen by any<br/>
Connoisseur of the Photographic art<br/>
who may wish see them. We think<br/>
H. M. the king is quite right in de-<br/>
signating Mr. Thomson, the good Pho-<br/>
tographer. We learn that Mr. T.<br/>
has left his printer who will execute<br/>
orders for his pictures as formerly.<br/>
There need be no fear that the prin-<br/>
ting will be executed with less skill<br/>
during the absence of Mr. T. We wish<br/>
our friend much success in his efforts<br/>
to picture the interesting views of<br/>
Ongcor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The carelessness of those in charge<br/>
of rafts of timber and bamboos com-<br/>
ing down the river are likely to lead<br/>
to serious accidents. A few evenings<br/>
ago a raft of bamboo was being floated<br/>
down the river, in direct line with the<br/>
shipping moored in the harbour, sweep-<br/>
ing past them with great velocity, un-<br/>
till it stuck fast across the bows of a<br/>
barque; and had she not been well<br/>
moored, would have swept her away<br/>
with the current, probably taking the<br/>
vessel astern along with her, and by<br/>
their united force sweeping all the<br/>
vessels below along with them. Thus a<br/>
vast amount of property would have<br/>
been destroyed for the want of a lit-<br/>
tle care by those in charge of the raft.<br/>
As it was, the raft, not being very<br/>
firmly put together, broke across the<br/>
bows of the barque, and sped on its<br/>
way. The next vessel had timely<br/>
warning by the cracking and snapping<br/>
of the bamboos across the barque’s<br/>
bows, and sheered clear of the dan-<br/>
ger.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_5 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="rc2">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. FEB. 1ST 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r11b">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r11c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="rfc">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>When From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>Date</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r02"><b>Name</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where For</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r49">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Cobbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11d">
        <p class="r49">286</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r83">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r49">Jan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Mc. Dermat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11d">
        <p class="r49">125</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11e">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raa">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Tame</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11f">
        <p class="r49">336</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r120">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r01">Crane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11f">
        <p class="r49">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r120">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Nordberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r121">
        <p class="r49">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r122">
        <p class="r01">Swe.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r91">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r01">Hasty</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Lesure</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r121">
        <p class="r49">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r122">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Orion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r121">
        <p class="r49">358</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r122">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r91">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r121">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r122">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Coquett</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11f">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r120">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8a">
        <p class="r01">G. boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11f">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r120">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">V. Canning</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Thurnam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r123">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r124">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rfa">
        <p class="r01">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r123">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r124">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_6 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r10c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r02"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrived</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r101">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captain</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r02"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r02"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb9">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Nardberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10d">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Adelheid</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">235</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">J. Ehbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Amasone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">318</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Bellstedt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Anne Marie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Danish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">275</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Jurgenese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Ann Lucy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Amornson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">408</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Carl Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Nushaam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Catton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">223</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Dupuy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Lightening</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Coquette</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">Gun-boat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pendant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Dioscuren</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Wayner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Dwina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Russian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Edward Marquard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">301</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Churngside</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Coast</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Fredrik VII</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hoyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">F. or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Gustav</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">240</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Kier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Hawk</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">164</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Virgin &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Hector</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">J. F. Marten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Henriette</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">V. Horten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Jasmin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Ortine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Malherbe Jullian &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">232</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Megerdrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">September</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">D. Maclean &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Kuirovie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Narodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Marianna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">199</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uhila</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Gilfillan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">F. or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Meinen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">624</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Ballard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">New York</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">536</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Macnach</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chua Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">319</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Ahlmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Patriot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Stegmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">348</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Satellite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">476</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">D. Evens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Solo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">965</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Erckin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Bechmermann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Triton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">238</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Horn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Turandot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">408</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Meinert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10f">
        <p class="r01">Chua Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Cobbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">Chua Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Wm. Cundall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">267</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Semple</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10e">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r110">
        <p class="r01">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r111">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r93">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r111">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r112">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r9a">
        <p class="r49">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb4">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r113">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb7">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_7 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="9" valign="bottom" class="re5">
        <p class="r02"><b>Siamese Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r02"><b>Vessels Names.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrived.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r02"><b>Flag &amp; Rig.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r02"><b>Tons.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Captains.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Where From.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb8">
        <p class="r02"><b>Consignees.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re6">
        <p class="r02"><b>Destination.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb9">
        <p class="r01">Advance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">336</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Tams</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb9">
        <p class="r01">Pra Ney Sit</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Amy Douglas</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">333</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Bimroth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Bangkok Mark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">409</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">375</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Gottlieb</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phys</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">323</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Contest</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">386</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Leyser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Keensoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Cruiser</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">700</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Denmark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">328</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Prowse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Tat Sue</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Enterprise</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">488</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Somfleth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Envoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">330</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Groves</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Favorite</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Flying Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">295</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Saxtroph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Godlah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">9</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Da Silva</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Toh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Hap Sing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">342</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Haberkust</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Hope</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">331</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Sohn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Iron Duke</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">464</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">In Dock</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Indian Warrior</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chauaua Kong Sie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Kim Chy Leng</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">174</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Brightman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong May</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Saigon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Kim Hong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">217</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jensen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Kim Sony Soon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">23</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Chennon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Kim Boon Hoat</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">209</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Tucker</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Kim Eng Hap</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">166</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Lion</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">200</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Maria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Ellessen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chow Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Meridian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">203</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Reynolds</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Moonlight</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">644</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Jorgeman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sua Kean</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Noorfol</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">September</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">133</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Singora</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Orestes</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">390</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Wolff</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Princess Seraphi</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">454</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Konford</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Queen of England</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">433</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Crook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Railway</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Honhow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Repairing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Resolute</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Anderson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Toh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Seaforth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">311</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Young</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Senator</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">482</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Thomson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Chin Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">326</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Bragg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Liverpool</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Siamese Crown</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">549</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Laid Up</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Sing Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">231</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Sirius</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Tenti</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hoy How</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Sword Fish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">16</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Moller</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Singpore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Telegraph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">July</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">302</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Christeansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Tun Fall Hin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">507</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Freudenberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Tye Watt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">654</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Crieghton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Tylong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">440</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hemsky</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">800</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Pulaski</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Viscount Canning</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Steamer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Shannon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Poh Yim Soo</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Walter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">237</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Witherspoon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01">Young Ing</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">June</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rba">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01">Yun Chal Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">280</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Richter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbb">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbc">
        <p class="r01">Yuthia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6b">
        <p class="r01">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">201</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01">Davanant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rbc">
        <p class="r01">Chow Sun Pook</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Where is PENELOPE BROWN who<br/>
came and introduced herself to the for-<br/>
mer editor of the "Bangkok Recorder"<br/>
and proposed to write a series of arti-<br/>
cles for the paper, and in whose pro-<br/>
position we took a lively interest? Has<br/>
she become disgusted with the change<br/>
which has taken place in the editorial<br/>
department, and hence withdrawn? or<br/>
did she find she had undertaken a job<br/>
too onerous for one of her delicate<br/>
frame? Judging from the spirit and<br/>
power of the article she sent as the<br/>
first of a series, we are not inclined to<br/>
think this of her. Will she please to<br/>
let us know from whence she hails,<br/>
and why she has thus disappointed us?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A group of six new houses in the<br/>
Pennsylvania oil regions is called "Im-<br/>
perial city."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Bachelor's definition of married<br/>
people : "Ducks" and "Geese"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—The Richmond Bulletin speaks of<br/>
the present peace as "the disastrous<br/>
termination of the war."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Don't always turn back because<br/>
there's danger ahead: there may be<br/>
danger in the rear.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Never lay too great stress upon<br/>
your own usefulness, or perhaps God<br/>
may show you that he can do without<br/>
you.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Transit of Mails.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our issue of the 4th instant we<br/>
gave a memo. of the number of days<br/>
occupied in the transit of the Outward<br/>
mails to this Port. We intend in our<br/>
present issue to lay before our readers<br/>
another memo. which has been care-<br/>
fully compiled and sent to us for<br/>
publication which shews the manner<br/>
in which he Homeward Mail contract<br/>
has been performed from the 10th of<br/>
January to the 21st of October 1865.<br/>
The quickest transit viâ Marseilles<br/>
has been in 34 days. This was the<br/>
Mail which left this Port per P. & O.<br/>
steamer Benares, on the 23rd of April<br/>
last year, and taken on to Suez from<br/>
Galle by the Mail steamer Simla. The<br/>
latest transit via Southampton was<br/>
in 38 days This was the Mail which<br/>
left Singapore per P. & O. steamer<br/>
Singapore, on the 23rd March last<br/>
year and arrived in London on the<br/>
30th April. On six occasions the Mails<br/>
reached viâ Marseilles in 35 days.<br/>
Twice during the year the Mails ar-<br/>
rived in London viâ Marseilles in 36<br/>
days. The longest transit has been<br/>
46 days viâ Marseilles. These were<br/>
the Mails which left this Port on the<br/>
21st May and 22nd June. The delay<br/>
was attributable to the long passage<br/>
of the Mail steamers Candia and<br/>
Golconda which conveyed the mails<br/>
from Galle to Suez. The following<br/>
is a table of the departures of the<br/>
mail steamers during last year, and<br/>
the number of days occupied in the<br/>
transit ;—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">Days.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Ganges</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8th</td>
 <td>January</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">39</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Carnatic</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21st</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Emeu</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8th</td>
 <td>February</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Orissa</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22nd</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Behar</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8th</td>
 <td>March</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Singapore</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23rd</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">33</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Ottawa</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9th</td>
 <td>April</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Benares</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23rd</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Emeu</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6th</td>
 <td>May</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">41</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Salsette</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21st</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">46</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Jeddo</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7th</td>
 <td>June</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Penar</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22nd</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Ottawa</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7th</td>
 <td>July</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">39</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Rangoon</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21st</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Carnatic</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7th</td>
 <td>August</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Emeu</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20th</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">39</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Behar</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7th</td>
 <td>September</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Orissa</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20th</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Ottawa</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6th</td>
 <td>October</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Baroda</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21st</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">35</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have not yet been able to as-<br/>
certain how many days the mails sub-<br/>
sequent to those above-mentioned oc-<br/>
cupied in their transit, but it is suffi-<br/>
cient for all purposes to know that<br/>
the average transit of the Homeward<br/>
mails was nearly 38 days, and those of<br/>
the Outward mails for last year about<br/>
35 days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Straits Times.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-01_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Assault on an Editor.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following shews the dangers<br/>
which surround the editorial chair<br/>
in Ceylon. The plaintiff is the editor<br/>
of the Ceylon Examiner:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"This morning (Friday, 27th Oc-<br/>
tober.) Mr. Cruwell and another tall<br/>
person (since ascertained to be Lieute-<br/>
nant Stubbs, of the 2-25th entered Mr.<br/>
Lorenz's house, and on being shewn into<br/>
his office-room (by Mrs. Lorenz,) the<br/>
former asked Mr. Lorenz for an apo-<br/>
logy for certain letters and articles<br/>
which had appeared in the Examiner.<br/>
Mr. Lorenz said that he would only<br/>
be too willing to apologize for them,<br/>
if Mr. Cruwell would state to him as<br/>
a gentleman that the statements therein<br/>
were not founded on fact. On this<br/>
understanding, Mr. Lorenz proceeded<br/>
to write a few paragraphs, when Mr.<br/>
Cruwell objected to any reference be-<br/>
ing made to his own assertion of the<br/>
fact being incorrect. Mr. Lorenz said<br/>
he could not suppress that important<br/>
fact, as that was the only ground on<br/>
which the article could be retracted or<br/>
qualified. Mr. Cruwell then produced<br/>
a large whip and inflicted a blow on<br/>
Mr. Lorenz's back. Mr. Lorenz, seiz-<br/>
ing a rule on the table struck Mr. Cru-<br/>
well a blow on the forehead: but see-<br/>
ing him walking out hastely, he called<br/>
for his servants, and about ten or fif-<br/>
teen of them, accompanied by his ne-<br/>
phew, rushing out, found Mr. Cruwell<br/>
in the act of getting into his carriage.<br/>
He was calling out to the horse-keeper<br/>
to drive on, when he was at once<br/>
pulled out, and received a very severe<br/>
beating from the house to the gate,<br/>
where Mr. Cruwell and his friend,<br/>
fairly took to their heels and ran away.<br/>
It is said that, Mr. Cruwell received a<br/>
very severe beating and was seen run-<br/>
ning down hill in a very tattered con-<br/>
dition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"During the day, a warrant was<br/>
issued against Mr. Cruwell by Mr. D.<br/>
De Saram, Police Magistrate on an af-<br/>
fidavit by Mr. Lorenz for an assault<br/>
in his house. Mr. Cruwell was brought<br/>
up before the Magistrate, and on read-<br/>
ing the affidavit, agreed to its general<br/>
accuracy, but demurred to his being<br/>
called a man of a violent temper. Mr.<br/>
Lorenz said he would - not press the<br/>
assault case, as Mr. Cruwell had met<br/>
with such severe treatment from his<br/>
(Mr. L.'s) servants. The Magistrate<br/>
thereupon bound Mr. Cruwell over to<br/>
keep the peace in £1600-—Mr. C. him-<br/>
self £800, and two others (Mr. Har-<br/>
rison and Dr. Kelson, who became<br/>
sureties) for £400 each.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he has recently pur-<br/>
chased all the presses and type, together<br/>
with all the typecasting and book-bind-<br/>
ing apparatus formerly belonging to<br/>
the Am. Baptist Mission in this city;<br/>
and having thus reinforced his original<br/>
Printing establishment with 'a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to per-<br/>
form a much greater amount of print-<br/>
ing for the Mission and for this business<br/>
community, and to fulfil the desires of<br/>
his patrons with more promptness and<br/>
certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA TRADERS.
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed Agent at Bang-<br/>
kok for the above named Insurance<br/>
Company, is now prepared to issue<br/>
policies on Marine Risks upon the usual<br/>
terms, to an extent not exceeding<br/>
$40,000 on first class sailing vessels,<br/>
and $70,000 on steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the usual Brokerage<br/>
of 10 P cent, a further cash return<br/>
of Five per cent upon premium paid,<br/>
will be made to all Insurers with this<br/>
Company. Payment for losses will be<br/>
made whereever an Agency of the<br/>
Company exists, in one month after<br/>
proof of loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. ST. Crs<br/>
JULIEN in our firm ceased from this<br/>
date, and Mr. J. M. ALLOIN will sign<br/>
by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RHMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam Nov. 1st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colonial, Sea and Fire
Insurance Company.
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan, 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_23 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Co. Limited.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan. 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_24 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ADVERTISEMENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A JUVENILE English school un-<br/>
der the style of "Prince Supra-<br/>
tith's English school" is just open in<br/>
one of the rooms of the first new brick<br/>
building on the right side of the new<br/>
Road ; outside the Palace walls, and<br/>
at the next bridge but one from the<br/>
Iron draw-bridge—TERMS—from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Sinoon Mai, Wat Koke
Siam, 3rd January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_26 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ré Estate of C. A. Chilcott deceas-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been duly<br/>
appointed administrator of the Estate<br/>
of C. A. Chilcote, late of Bangkok de-<br/>
ceased; all persons having claims upon<br/>
the said estate are hereby requested to<br/>
present the same, with proper vouches,<br/>
without delay. All persons indebted<br/>
to the said estate are called upon to<br/>
make payment of same to<br/>
January 5th 1866. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
W. DEAN
Administrator
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
