---
linkTitle: 'April 26th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - April 26th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); April 26th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 39
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: left;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, April 26th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">No. 16.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Young Voyagers;
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
OR, PILOTED BY PROVIDENCE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Come, Annie, come, Jenny—-sisters.<br/>
Come aboard my ship, and we’ll have a<br/>
jolly nice sail this afternoon. I’ll be a sea-<br/>
captain like my father, and show you how<br/>
be sails that big packet ship across the<br/>
ocean. Come, girls, get in—-Annie, you<br/>
shall be my mate, and little Jeany shall be<br/>
cook and steward.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The speaker was a fair-haired, rosycheek-<br/>
ed boy, with bright, laughing, blue eyes,<br/>
about ten years old, who during his address<br/>
was busily engaged in rigging the mast and<br/>
sail to a ship’s launch, which was made<br/>
fast to the beach in one of those secluded,<br/>
picturesque little coves or inlets, with<br/>
which the South shore of Long Island, be-<br/>
tween Fire Island and Rockaway, is so<br/>
pleasantly indented.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The boy’s companions were two little<br/>
girls of eight and six years, beautiful as<br/>
angels, and so exactly like their brother in<br/>
every feature, that they seemed as perfect<br/>
copies—-all but the long, sunny ringlets of<br/>
his exquisite face.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Annie, the elder girl, bounded lightly on<br/>
the boat at her brother’s first invitation,<br/>
and began assisting him about the sail.—-<br/>
But little Jenny—who was tugging along<br/>
a great basket, filled with pies, sweetcakes,<br/>
and fruits, which they had brought from a<br/>
beautiful cottage not far off, for a little pic-<br/>
nic dinner—-hesitated and held back in si-<br/>
lence, till her brother urged her again to<br/>
get into the boat, when she began to argue<br/>
with him thus:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, don’t let us go in the boat to-day!<br/>
There is so much wind, and we might be<br/>
—"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“You are a little coward, Jenny, to be<br/>
afraid,” interrupted the young captain im-<br/>
patiently. It’s the pleasantest day we<br/>
have had in a month; it is so late in the<br/>
fall that if we don’t go to-day, I am sure<br/>
we shall not get another chance this year.<br/>
Come, Jenny, don’t be frightened-—jump<br/>
in!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, I’m not at all afraid brother,” and<br/>
child as she was, little Jenny’s cheek glow-<br/>
ed for a few moments with a deeper vermil-<br/>
lion tint at the implied question of her<br/>
courage by her brother. “I’m not in the<br/>
least afraid, Willie. But you know moth-<br/>
er told us we must not go in the boat when<br/>
it blows hard; all I’m afraid of is disobey-<br/>
ing her.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Then you may come into the boat with-<br/>
out fear, sister, for mother told me I might<br/>
sail this afternoon, not five minutes before<br/>
I left the house.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Yes, I know that Willie; but it was<br/>
two hours ago, when it was calm. It blows<br/>
a great deal harder now, and I’m sure moth-<br/>
er would not like us to go away from the<br/>
shore in the boat when there is such a high<br/>
wind.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, nonsense, Jenny, I have been all a-<br/>
bout the cove when it blew a great deal<br/>
harder than this. Mother, you know, says<br/>
I am the best sailor along the coast, and<br/>
just as well able to judge when it’s weath-<br/>
er fit to go on a cruise, as she is. Come<br/>
sisters, we can’t get drowned, for the water<br/>
is so shallow now at ebb tide and with this<br/>
west wind, that we could wade anywhere<br/>
about the cove.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus persuaded, Jenny passed the basket<br/>
to her brother; and then clambering into<br/>
the boat herself, she took a seat beside An-<br/>
nie, in the stern sheets, and soon the launch<br/>
was under weigh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She was a great, heavy, clumsy boat, as<br/>
all her class usually are, with a single lug<br/>
sail of heavy canvas, altogether illy cal-<br/>
culated for a pleasure craft, but little<br/>
Willie Walton managed her with consum-<br/>
mate skill, for so young a commander, and<br/>
they had made several stretches of the<br/>
cove, when as they were passing the inlet<br/>
that opened out seawards, Annie’s eyes<br/>
rested on the bright, blue waves of the<br/>
Atlantic, far out beyond the discolored<br/>
water along the coast, and clapping her<br/>
hands with a certain ectacy of infantile<br/>
joy, she exclaimed:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O’ Willie, Willie ! Let us go out there<br/>
and sail on that beautiful, blue ocean !<br/>
Won’t it be grand! So much prettier than<br/>
this little, dirty cove, with the sand banks<br/>
all about us.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Willie sprang to his feet, and gazing out<br/>
into the offing, his bright eyes lit up with<br/>
the enthusiasm caught from his sister’s<br/>
words, and he instantly replied:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“We’ll go out there, and have a glorious<br/>
sail—just like the great ships and steam-<br/>
boats, that we see go by.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, don’t go out brother,” interrupted<br/>
little Jenny, her cheek growing pale as the<br/>
delicate lily. “Don’t Willie! Mother will<br/>
be angry with us.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Mother will do no such thing, Jenny.<br/>
She will be proud of us, to think we have<br/>
been out on the ocean all alone. I can<br/>
easily come back with the flood tide, that<br/>
will soon be coming in.” And without far-<br/>
ther argument, the reckless boy put his<br/>
helm up, eased off the sheet, and away<br/>
out through the inlet, towards the line of<br/>
blue water outside, went the launch, hur-<br/>
ried along before the strong breeze, which<br/>
added to the last quarter ebb bore her<br/>
away at a speed that soon sunk the yellow<br/>
ridge to a mere line along the margin of<br/>
the wide ocean, and the white cottages<br/>
with the Venetian blinds, into toy houses<br/>
dotted with bright green spots. The color-<br/>
ed water which appeared from the cove<br/>
only like a narrow strip dividing the white<br/>
surf from the deep azure of the ocean be-<br/>
yond—-expanding into a broad belt of se-<br/>
veral miles in width. But with the fine<br/>
breeze and the strong outset of the tide,<br/>
the boat sped on ; while the novelty of<br/>
their position, and the natural excitement<br/>
induced by it, caused the space and time<br/>
to pass unheeded by the young voyagers.<br/>
And a certain dread came upon them,<br/>
having gained the blue water, they looked<br/>
toward the shore and saw hills, fields,<br/>
houses, and orchards, blending, growing<br/>
indistinct, and fading away in the distance.<br/>
There was a sense of lonely, utter help-<br/>
lessness suddenly shadowing their bright<br/>
visions; and there was a world of pathos<br/>
in little Jenny’s sweet, low voice as she<br/>
laid her hand gently on her brother’s arm,<br/>
and looking up in his eyes, whispered:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“O, Willie, let us go home. Mother<br/>
would feel very bad, if she knew we had<br/>
come away out here.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Willie bent down his head and kissed<br/>
his sister’s fair pale cheek, as he replied:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“We will go back home, Jenny, I was<br/>
naughty to come off so far from land. But<br/>
don’t cry, sister. I am very sorry. Don’t<br/>
blame me—I couldn’t help it ; I do love the<br/>
sea so much.” “No, we won’t blame you<br/>
Willie, only let us hurry back ; for see,<br/>
yonder is a black cloud coming up in the<br/>
west, and I’m afraid if we do not—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The child’s speech was interrupted by a<br/>
groan of anguish from her brother, whose<br/>
eyes for the first time had been directed<br/>
towards a bank of dark, murky clouds,<br/>
heaving up in the western horizon, by his<br/>
sister’s remark ; and at the very instant<br/>
that his vision first rested upon the black<br/>
pall, a chain of heavy, zigzag lightning<br/>
rose quivering along its upper edge, and a<br/>
few moments later there came to their<br/>
ears the low muttering roar of far-off<br/>
thunder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The young captain had hauled his little<br/>
vessel by the wind, but the clumsy thing<br/>
lay broad off under her ill-fitted sail. Be-<br/>
sides, the wind, which she had scarcely<br/>
felt while running off before it, had now<br/>
increased so much that she heeled over<br/>
till there was great danger of her capriz-<br/>
ing, to prevent which Willie, with the as-<br/>
sistance of his two sisters, set about reef-<br/>
ing the sail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This was soon accomplished, and again<br/>
the boat was steered as close as she would<br/>
go, which at best was little better than<br/>
eight points, so that with her great lee<br/>
way, Willie soon found that in spite of<br/>
his utmost skill, his craft was drifting<br/>
rapidly out to sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearer and nearer rolled on the embat-<br/>
tled regions of black storm clouds. Loud-<br/>
er came the fearful thunder crashes ; more<br/>
vivid gleamed the red lightning’s flash ;<br/>
wilder the shrieking gale went by, howling<br/>
and screaming dread notes of terror to the<br/>
young voyagers. The water—-which in<br/>
with the land was quite smooth—-began to<br/>
heave up in huge, foam crested waves,<br/>
here and there, all round them, curling<br/>
ever and breaking all feather like in long<br/>
lines of showy, hissing spray. Great round<br/>
drops of rain came pattering down in the<br/>
water and pelting down on the thwarts<br/>
and gunwales of the boat, with a sharp<br/>
clicking noise that smote startlingly dis-<br/>
mal on the ears of the little ocean wanderers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Young as he was, Willie retained in his<br/>
mind much of what he had heard his fa-<br/>
ther relate at various times, in regard to<br/>
the management of a ship in a gale ; and<br/>
the knowledge he had thus gained in the-<br/>
ory, now stood him in good stead. He had<br/>
heard of keeping a ship before the wind<br/>
in a squall, and of scudding in a gale—-<br/>
and the dull-sailing, clumsy boat was his<br/>
ship. The theory which he had learned,<br/>
he proceeded to put into practice ; and<br/>
when the first mad gust fell upon the<br/>
launch, she was going dead before the<br/>
wind—-otherwise, her sail would have<br/>
blown away, or she would have been<br/>
swamped in an instant. As it was, she<br/>
went flashing on through the wild storm<br/>
and screaming surges, scudding away<br/>
right out into the mighty wilderness of<br/>
waters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ten, fifteen minutes went by, and still<br/>
the war of the elements went on in all<br/>
their terrible fury; and still the brave lit-<br/>
tle fellow stood there at the helm, bare<br/>
headed, his cap blown away, his clothes<br/>
dripping with water, and steady to his<br/>
purpose, steered his tiny bark on and<br/>
away, before the fierce, howling blast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Once, only, he faltered; and that was<br/>
when the launch quivered for a moment<br/>
on the crest of a mighty surge, and then<br/>
went reeling and plunging, standing al-<br/>
most on end, down into the hissing vortex<br/>
of the liquid ravine. Then, a single quick<br/>
cry of horror escaped the boy's lips;<br/>
but the next moment Jenny crept up to<br/>
his side, laid her head upon his shoulder<br/>
and spoke in a low, soothing tone, that<br/>
almost instantly called back his confidence,<br/>
and elicited from his lips a cry of admi-<br/>
ration for his sister's heroism.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Don't be frightened, dear Willie," said<br/>
the little angel. "Mother says that God<br/>
watches over people that live on the seas.<br/>
And don't you remember, brother, how of-<br/>
ten our dear mother has told us, that Jesus<br/>
loves little children? If God watches o-<br/>
ver us, and Jesus loves us, we shall be<br/>
safe. So, don't be afraid."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Night—dark, wild, and gloomy night,<br/>
came down upon the world of waters, and<br/>
still the terrible tornado raged in all its<br/>
horrors of wild lightning, rain, and thun-<br/>
der; and there in their frail, open boat, we<br/>
leave our young voyagers speeding on and<br/>
away right into the very heart of the vast<br/>
Atlantic. We will bid them adieu, and<br/>
glance back to their home—to their fond<br/>
mother, rendered desolate in heart by the<br/>
dread calamity that had befallen her in<br/>
the loss of her children. At the moment<br/>
when the children first embarked, Mrs.<br/>
Walton had glanced outwards to the cove,<br/>
and for a few moments she watched them<br/>
with all a mother's fond pride, as she saw<br/>
them sailing to and fro on the quiet wa-<br/>
ters of the bay; and then some visitors<br/>
called, and she forgot her children till just<br/>
as the storm came down, when a neighbor<br/>
came rushing in with the heart rending in-<br/>
telligence that they had been seen only a<br/>
few moments previously, several miles out<br/>
to sea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first terrible shock almost killed her;<br/>
but soon rallying all her woman's energy<br/>
and motherly love, she rushed forth from<br/>
her home, and regardless of the furious<br/>
storm, aroused the neighbors, and besought<br/>
them with all the eloquence called up by<br/>
the deep anguish of her heart to lend their<br/>
aid in the recovery of her lost darlings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was no vessel at Rockaway or Fal-<br/>
kner's Island, and to venture out to sea in<br/>
a storm with such small craft as were kept<br/>
along the shore were worse than madness;<br/>
and so immediate dispatches were sent to<br/>
New-York, not only to the owners of the<br/>
ship commanded by Capt. Walton, but to<br/>
the pilots; and within an hour after the<br/>
news had reached the city, two of the staun-<br/>
chest pilot-boats manned by extra picked<br/>
crews of gallant souls were under weigh,<br/>
and spreading on their swift-winged<br/>
course in search of the ocean-lost children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs. Walton herself hastened to the city<br/>
to urge with her presence and influence,<br/>
more prompt action; but the two ves-<br/>
sels had been gone about an hour when<br/>
she arrived, and so she repaired to the house<br/>
of Mr. Alwin, the owner of the ship her hus-<br/>
band commanded, to await the return of<br/>
those who had so nobly gone in that mad<br/>
storm in search of her three darlings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Leaving her there in a state of fevered<br/>
anxiety, hoping in the very teeth<br/>
of despair, we, too, will go forth into the<br/>
wild yelling gale, to look upon a most sub-<br/>
lime ocean picture.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was an hour past midnight—-dark as the<br/>
deepest, gloomiest cells of an inquisitorial<br/>
dungeon, save when the vivid lightning's<br/>
flash lit up the Cimmerian blackness with<br/>
a glare rivaling that of the brightest noon-<br/>
day sun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some ninety miles to the eastward of<br/>
Sandy Hook lay Hove to a noble ship, in-<br/>
ward bound, in one of the most terrible<br/>
gales that ever swept along the northern<br/>
coast of America. The gale had just set in<br/>
an hour before sundown, and ever since<br/>
the ship had been hove to under the short-<br/>
est possible canvas, heading up southwest,<br/>
with the gale coming in violent squalls out<br/>
at due north-west.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Do you think there is any danger to us<br/>
or to the ship, captain?" inquired one of<br/>
the three passengers, who stood near the<br/>
commander of the ship, partly sheltered<br/>
from the storm by the projecting roof of<br/>
the round house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Not in the least, Mr. Kinsley. You are<br/>
as safe here as you would be in your own<br/>
house in New-York. She is a bran-new<br/>
ship, and I have had no opportunity of<br/>
trying her hove to before; but I am per-<br/>
fectly satisfied with her behavior. In<br/>
fact, I never saw a craft conduct herself as<br/>
well in a hurricane like this. 'Tis a terri-<br/>
ble night, however, and God help those<br/>
who may chance to be out in a less able<br/>
craft than ours! For the last hour I have<br/>
been thinking of my wife and children.<br/>
My wife will not sleep one wink to-night,<br/>
she never can in a storm like this when I<br/>
am not at home. I was cast away once on<br/>
the Long Island shore in just such a gale,<br/>
only it was south-west. I would give a<br/>
hundred dollars this moment to be at home<br/>
only for my wife's sake.—-But we must—-<br/>
my God, what is that?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A continuous flash of lightning lit up<br/>
the surrounding space, and as the darkness<br/>
shut in again, a faint, but clear and dis-<br/>
tinct—-"Ship ahoy!" uttered either by a<br/>
female or a child, came down on the blast<br/>
from directly to windward.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A moment after the hail was repeated,<br/>
and another flash of lightning revealed a<br/>
boat driving square down before the gale,<br/>
and almost under the ship's quarter. Ere<br/>
one could count five, the shrill, quivering<br/>
cry came up from the boat, as it shot past<br/>
the ship not three fathoms clear of the rud-<br/>
der.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Merciful heaven! There are three chil-<br/>
dren!” yelled Mr. Kinsley, who with the<br/>
captain was peering down over the taffrail<br/>
as the boat flew past.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Hard up your helm, my man,” said the<br/>
captain in a voice as calm as man's could<br/>
be; and then calling to the chief and third<br/>
mates who were both on deck, he informed<br/>
them of the fact that a small, open boat,<br/>
with three children in it, had just gone<br/>
past, and then gave his orders :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Mr. Casey, please go out on the flying<br/>
jib boom, and keep a lookout for the boat;<br/>
and mind, Mr. Casey, if we come up with<br/>
it, you can lay the ship so as to bring the<br/>
boat close aboard on the larboard side—-<br/>
LARBOARD, remember. Mr. Casey. Don't<br/>
for your life make a mistake. Go forward<br/>
now, sir, and if we save those children, five<br/>
hundred dollars shall be your reward.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then turning to the chief mate, he con-<br/>
tinued :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Mr. Winsor, you will brace the yards<br/>
all square, which without making any sail<br/>
will send the vessel through the water<br/>
something faster than the boat is going.—<br/>
Having done this, rig six single whips, two<br/>
on each of the lower yards, on the LAR-<br/>
BOARD side. Place the blocks far enough<br/>
out for the falls to drop about a fathom<br/>
clear of the ship, and reeve off good snug<br/>
sail gear, bring both ends in on deck, with<br/>
a running bowline in one part and the oth-<br/>
er lod along as a foil, stationing three good<br/>
fellows at each. In the meantime, I will<br/>
get her steady before the wind, and Frank,<br/>
my man, you keep her so. Don't let her<br/>
yaw an inch. Steer her as though your<br/>
very soul depended upon it ; and within an<br/>
hour after the ship reaches New-York, you<br/>
shall have a hundred dollars.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“And now, Mr. Kinsley, will you please<br/>
call up the second mate and all the gen-<br/>
tleman passengers ! I want them to stand<br/>
by the whips in order to assist the sailors<br/>
if necessary. We must save those child-<br/>
ren, and do it too without the boat coming<br/>
in contact with the ship, as that would be<br/>
instant destruction of it and them in such<br/>
a sea.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“All ready, the whips, sir!” came from<br/>
the mate, and that moment the young<br/>
mate's voice rang out from the jib boom<br/>
end, “boat right ahead! Steady as you go!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Now then, my lads, who'll go into these<br/>
running bowlines with me, and stand by to<br/>
pick up the children?” anxiously inquired<br/>
the captain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I sir,” “I,” “I,” came from a dozen<br/>
ready sailors in a moment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Thank you, my lads; but I only want<br/>
five. I will go in one of the bowlines my-<br/>
self.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The selections were soon made, and there<br/>
they stood in the fore, main and mizzen<br/>
chains—the commander and five noble fel-<br/>
lows—with the bowlines under their arms<br/>
ready to risk their lives to save the three<br/>
children.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Steady! stand by, now! Here they<br/>
come!—look out!” screamed the officer<br/>
from the jib boom, and a moment later the<br/>
dim outlines of a boat, loomed up by the<br/>
lee cat-head. Another of breathless ex-<br/>
pense, and the boat was abreast of the fore<br/>
chains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Stand by the forward whips! Look out<br/>
there in the main chains! Veer away<br/>
men! now, Harry, Now!” and down went<br/>
the captain and his companion, down into<br/>
the boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A breath later, and the shout came ring-<br/>
ing up, “Look out, main and mizzen chains!<br/>
Sway away, on deck!” and up by the run<br/>
came the two men, each grasping a child<br/>
in his arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Main chains, there! In God's name,<br/>
have you got her!” screamed the captain,<br/>
rushing aft with the boy he had saved still<br/>
in his arms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Ay, ay, sir! All right,” answered a<br/>
brave fellow, clambering in on the deck<br/>
with little Jenny grasped tight by her<br/>
clothes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Father!” exclaimed the little girl, clasp-<br/>
ing the captain about the neck. “Father!<br/>
Father!” echoed back two treble voices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Almighty God, I thank thee! Saved—<br/>
saved—saved!” and Capt. Lester Walton<br/>
sunk fainting on the deck. He knew the<br/>
children were his own from the moment<br/>
they passed the ship's stern, and his indom-<br/>
itable self-control had borne him up till<br/>
they were rescued; when the reaction came<br/>
he sank down insensible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At an hour before sunset on the follow-<br/>
ing day, the ship was at her berth in New<br/>
York, and the meeting between the dis-<br/>
tracted mother and her loved children<br/>
there, in the cabin of her husband's ship,<br/>
is too sacred a picture to be profaned by a<br/>
mere pen-and-ink copy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
The Youths Friend
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If such an intense effort to save the tem-<br/>
poral life of those three children be most<br/>
suitable, praiseworthy, and sublime, how<br/>
much more so is the whole hearted and per-<br/>
sistent efforts to save souls from eternal death<br/>
unto eternal life.{{< news/indent4 >}}Ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Highlander's Prayer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Scotch Highlander, who served<br/>
in the first disastrous war with the<br/>
American colonies, was brought one<br/>
evening before his commanding officer,<br/>
charged with the capital offense of be-<br/>
ing in direct communication with the<br/>
enemy. The charge could not, well<br/>
be preferred at a more dangerous time.<br/>
Only a few weeks had elapsed since<br/>
the execution of Major Andre and the<br/>
indignation of the British exasperated<br/>
almost to madness by the event, had<br/>
not yet cooled down. There was,<br/>
however, no proof against the High-<br/>
lander. He had been seen, in the<br/>
grey of the twilight, stealing out from<br/>
a clump of underwood that bordered<br/>
on one of the huge forests, which then<br/>
covered much the greater part of the<br/>
United Provinces, and which, in the<br/>
immediate neighborhood of the British,<br/>
swarmed with the troops of Washing-<br/>
ton. All the rest was mere inference<br/>
and conjecture. The poor man's de-<br/>
fence was summed up in a few words.<br/>
He had stolen away from his fellows,<br/>
he said, to spend a few hours in private<br/>
prayer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Have you been in the habit of<br/>
spending hours in private prayer?"<br/>
sternly asked the officer, himself a<br/>
Scotchman and a Presbyterian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Highlander replied in the af-<br/>
firmative.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Then," said the other, drawing<br/>
out his watch, "never in your life had<br/>
you more need of prayer than now;<br/>
kneel down, sir, and pray aloud, that<br/>
we may all hear you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Highlander, in the expectation<br/>
of instant death, knelt down. His prayer<br/>
was that of one long acquainted with<br/>
the appropriate language in which the<br/>
Christian addresses his God. It breath-<br/>
ed of imminent peril, and earnestly<br/>
implored the Divine interposition in<br/>
the threatened danger, the help of<br/>
Him who in times of extremity is<br/>
strong to deliver. It exhibited, in<br/>
short, a man who, thoroughly con-<br/>
versant with the scheme of redemp-<br/>
tion, and fully impressed with the<br/>
necessity of a personal interest in the<br/>
advantages which it secures, had made<br/>
the business of salvation the work of<br/>
many a solitary hour, and had, in con-<br/>
sequence, acquired much fluency in<br/>
expressing all his various wants as they<br/>
occurred, and thoughts and wishes as<br/>
they arose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You may go, sir," said the officer,<br/>
as he concluded, "You have, I dare<br/>
say, not been in correspondence with<br/>
the enemy to-night."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"His statement," he continued, ad-<br/>
dressing himself to the other officers,<br/>
"is, I doubt not, perfectly correct. No<br/>
one could have prayed so without a<br/>
long apprenticeship; fellows who have<br/>
not attended drill always get on ill at<br/>
review." —Hugh Miller
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Little Things.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great virtues are rare; the occasions<br/>
for them are very rare; and when they<br/>
do occur, we are prepared for them—<br/>
we are excited by the grandeur of the<br/>
sacrifice, we are supported either by<br/>
the splendor of the deed in the eyes<br/>
of the world, or by the self-com-<br/>
placencey that we experience from the<br/>
performance of an uncommon action.<br/>
Little things are unforeseen; they come<br/>
in contact with our pride, our indol-<br/>
ence, our haughtiness, our readiness to<br/>
take offense; they contradict our in-<br/>
clinations perpetually. We would<br/>
much rather make certain great sac-<br/>
rifices to God, however violent and<br/>
painful they might be, upon condition<br/>
that we should be rewarded by liberty<br/>
to follow our own desires and habits<br/>
in the details of life. It is, however,<br/>
only by fidelity in little things that a<br/>
true and constant love to God can be<br/>
distinguished from a passing fever of<br/>
spirit.—Fénelon.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Inferential Reasoning.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A physician took a young student<br/>
to see a patient who was confined to<br/>
his bed. "Sir," said the physician<br/>
to the sick man, "you have been im-<br/>
prudent; you have eaten oysters."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The patient admitted that he had<br/>
Returning home, the student asked<br/>
the doctor how he discovered that the<br/>
man had eaten oysters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Why," replied the doctor, "I saw<br/>
the shells under the bed."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few days after the student was<br/>
sent to visit the same patient. He soon<br/>
returned, however, saying that he had<br/>
been kicked out of the house for<br/>
telling the patient he had been impru-<br/>
dent; he had eaten horseflesh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Horseflesh! you young fool-<br/>
what do you mean?" cried the doc-<br/>
tor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Because I saw a saddle and a pair<br/>
of stirrups under the bed"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
April 26th 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Siam Telegraph.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The concession of the permission to<br/>
make the Telegraph from Rangoon to<br/>
Singapore, and the regulations under<br/>
which it has been granted, have been<br/>
approved and signed by the Siamese<br/>
authorities, and Mr. Read has left on<br/>
his return to Singapore. We wish<br/>
him every success in the undertaking<br/>
he is engaged in, as it is one on which<br/>
depends much of the future commer-<br/>
cial prosperity and political security<br/>
of this country, and we shall be in-<br/>
deed glad to hear that the British Go-<br/>
vernment has taken a favorable view<br/>
of the subject. We understand that<br/>
the rulers of the tributary states un-<br/>
der the rule of Siam, through which<br/>
the line may pass, must be consulted,<br/>
and their approbation obtained, but<br/>
this should prove no impediment to<br/>
the successful termination of the<br/>
scheme, as the approval of the sup-<br/>
reme government at Bangkok, if pro-<br/>
perly represented to those chieftains,<br/>
must ensure their compliance and we<br/>
therefore, confidently expect that a<br/>
representative of the Company will<br/>
be here before long, empowered to<br/>
secure the ratification of all agree-<br/>
ments, and to commence operations.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Naturalization.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is a postscript that should<br/>
have been appended to the article on na-<br/>
turalization which appeared in the pre-<br/>
vious number. {{< news/indent4 >}} Ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With respect to naturalization it<br/>
has been brought to our notice that,<br/>
the French Missionaries contend that<br/>
His Majesty the Emperor has taken<br/>
all Roman Catholics in these countries<br/>
under his protection, and therefore<br/>
that they have a right to the good<br/>
offices of the French Consul. This<br/>
argument would be very appropriate<br/>
in a time of religious persecution; but<br/>
where the utmost freedom in the prac-<br/>
tice of different creeds exists, and is<br/>
guaranteed by Treaty, it cannot be ad-<br/>
mitted; and a native christian, is as<br/>
liable to the laws of his country, and<br/>
can no more change his allegiance to<br/>
his King, than the Buddhist or Maho-<br/>
medan. The teachers of the people<br/>
should ever remember that they have<br/>
been instructed by high authority to<br/>
"render unto Cæsar the things which<br/>
are Cæsar's," and as they teach so<br/>
should they practice.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Buddhist Champion
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Translated from the Siamese.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply to our article in No. 14.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As regards the subject of religion on<br/>
which much has been written and<br/>
published, we have no desire to lift up<br/>
any religion and endeavor with it<br/>
to overthrow Christianity, because we<br/>
are aware that religion is a thing by<br/>
which men get a livelihood among<br/>
all the religious sects that exist, the<br/>
same as men resort to paddy fields<br/>
and orchards for a living. But to tell<br/>
the truth, the heart is one way and<br/>
the mouth another. The mouth will<br/>
speak in praise of a religion which it<br/>
holds as its own. And to be honest,<br/>
we must say that men according to<br/>
the wisdom they have are necessarily<br/>
incredulous of Christianity, and hence<br/>
ask many questions about it for in-<br/>
formation, and if you do not answer<br/>
their questions their doubts will not be<br/>
solved. If instead of answering their<br/>
questions directly to the point, you give<br/>
evasive answers, lugging in irrelevant<br/>
matter, you do thus cover up and<br/>
hide the point in question. For in-<br/>
stance we put to you some questions<br/>
about the rainbow, the sacred bow<br/>
and arrow of God; you did not at-<br/>
tempt to answer our questions, and<br/>
logged in the subject of lions and other<br/>
stories evincing a delirious mind. To<br/>
answer your antagonist in this way is,<br/>
according to an old proverb, said<br/>
to "be taking the side and pushing<br/>
his fellow." It is like two persons<br/>
tisting. One uses his fist in the pro-<br/>
per way, another instead of using his fist<br/>
suddenly turns his side, and with it<br/>
pushes his antagonist against the wall.<br/>
Now this is what the Siamese denom-<br/>
inate pushing with the side. The per-<br/>
son who thus meets his combatant<br/>
in argument virtually despises, and<br/>
ridicules him greatly. Even the<br/>
sacred books condemn the practice of<br/>
evasion in argument, saying, "whoever<br/>
being enquired of for information,<br/>
brings forward irrelevant matter for<br/>
an answer, and for the purpose of<br/>
burying up the point in question is<br/>
guilty of pushing his enquirer away<br/>
from him, thus revealing clearly that<br/>
he is an angry and captious man."<br/>
Such persons fall under the charge of<br/>
being given to fault finding and scoof-<br/>
fing. Such conduct is in no sense be-<br/>
coming.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now as regards the idea that vast<br/>
numbers of Siamese will sink into hell<br/>
because their king is leading them<br/>
thither—-why do you speak of it? The<br/>
king of Siam is causing many very<br/>
many to go down to hell is he? Why<br/>
do you not rather speak of the lord<br/>
Jesus as causing innumerable hosts to<br/>
go to hell! To illustrate our meaning.<br/>
When Jesus rose from the dead it is<br/>
recorded of him that he secretly ap-<br/>
peared to his apostles whom he loved—-<br/>
that he came and went stealthily<br/>
showing himself to only one or two at<br/>
a time, thus conducting himself as a<br/>
ghost does when it appears unto men—-<br/>
never appearing unto great multitudes<br/>
at once. Now why was this! Do you<br/>
think such conduct was suitable in<br/>
one professing to be Almighty? A<br/>
God like this was it, who became<br/>
famed for his power to make an atone-<br/>
ment for sin, and to bear the sins of<br/>
the whole world in the place of sinners?<br/>
Boasting as he did that he was the<br/>
one propitiatory sacrifice for the sins<br/>
of the world, why did he conduct him-<br/>
self thus?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The early teachings and history of<br/>
the Teacher (Jesus) and the teachings<br/>
of his followers who go about preach-<br/>
ing Christianity at the present time—-<br/>
praising and glorifying Christ, do not<br/>
agree together. The early and latter<br/>
teachings do not harmonize.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again when it is said that Jesus came<br/>
into the world and went about preach-<br/>
ing the gospel an indefinite period of<br/>
time, and that he then ascended to<br/>
heaven, how are we to learn where<br/>
heaven is—whether above or below, at<br/>
the west or the east, at the north or the<br/>
south? And when he ascended, why<br/>
did he ascend from a forest of trees<br/>
where only a few could see him? Why<br/>
did he not go up, and sail about in mid<br/>
heaven so that the multitudes could be-<br/>
hold him: or fly around the world three<br/>
times or seven times, and thus display<br/>
himself to all men, and give all the<br/>
privilege of hearing his teachings in<br/>
all parts of the habitable world! Could<br/>
he not have done this! Had he done<br/>
it, it would have been in accordance<br/>
with the fame which his modern fol-<br/>
lowers proclaim of him, and would<br/>
show that he is indeed the true God,<br/>
able and willing to save all the world<br/>
from sin and from hell, and take them<br/>
all to heaven. Had he displayed such<br/>
power at that time, giving all the in-<br/>
habitants of the world to see and hear<br/>
him at once, would not all the world<br/>
have been converted to him long ere<br/>
this! and would there be now any<br/>
more necessity of going about evan-<br/>
gelizing the nations with great labor,<br/>
and great expense of paper and book-<br/>
making! Had he taken this course<br/>
all mankind would have become be-<br/>
lievers in Christianity without any<br/>
sectarianism, and hence would all go<br/>
to heaven, not one being left to sink<br/>
to hell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Again the Roman Catholic Teach-<br/>
ers and Protestant missionaries be-<br/>
lieve in and pray to Jesus in heaven<br/>
praying to him day and night without<br/>
ceasing as being the most High and<br/>
the most excellent One. Still they do<br/>
not agree together; but quarrel about<br/>
the doctrines of Christ. The Protes-<br/>
tants speak against the Roman Catho-<br/>
lics and reproach them, affirming that<br/>
they hold many religious tenets<br/>
which are not taught in the Bible, that<br/>
their teachings are not in harmony<br/>
with the law of God, that they have<br/>
introduced into their system of doc-<br/>
trines commandments of their own<br/>
which are not of God. As for exam-<br/>
ple they teach that men ought to<br/>
worship the image of Jesus and of his<br/>
mother, and have established customs,<br/>
and hold them sacred which the Bible<br/>
does not sanction. As for the Roman<br/>
Catholics they find fault with the<br/>
Protestants charging them of being<br/>
rebels against the religion of Jesus<br/>
following their own unscriptural ways.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus do the two sects reproach and<br/>
quarrel and hook each other like cattle.<br/>
Now where is he whom they adore as<br/>
God? Does he know how they treat<br/>
each other? Both sects profess to hold<br/>
and observe the instructions of the<br/>
Lord Jesus, and seek him by prayer, and<br/>
supplication every morning and even-<br/>
ing. Now it would seem suitable that<br/>
he whom they thus worship should<br/>
make both parties to see and feel alike<br/>
so that they no more reproach and<br/>
hook one another.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why do you say that God nourish-<br/>
es and sustains the world in all its<br/>
parts and particular? Where is he<br/>
that no one can see him? If he knows<br/>
all men and knows that all his follow-<br/>
ers love and adore him greatly, why<br/>
does he not manifest himself to them so<br/>
that they shall see him clearly? As<br/>
to other sects holding different views<br/>
of the christain religion we have no<br/>
occasion to say anything, because they<br/>
are far away from us. But Protes-<br/>
tants and Roman Catholics are living<br/>
among us and therefore we have sin-<br/>
gled them out in our remarks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now for the above reasons we stand<br/>
in great doubt of the christian reli-<br/>
gion. Persons who have indeed some<br/>
wisdom disagree greatly about the re-<br/>
ligion which they mutually hold and<br/>
practice very differently. The Catho-<br/>
lics and Protestants are agreed in go-<br/>
ing about cursing all others who are<br/>
not christians, saying that the king is<br/>
levying the people en masse and lead-<br/>
ing them down to hell. Who will be<br/>
the cause of their destruction? Will<br/>
it not be attributable to Jesus and<br/>
those who bear his name? It is Je-<br/>
sus himself who causes men to go to<br/>
hell. It is the teachers of his religion<br/>
that lead men thither, because they<br/>
do not show good evidence as they<br/>
should of the truth of what they af-<br/>
firm. They do not show that which<br/>
corresponds with the cause, with the<br/>
fruit, with the beginning or the end.<br/>
The religion of Jesus is like unto<br/>
Children calling to one another in<br/>
sport-—O children children! it is late<br/>
and you are not yet asleep. Let the<br/>
tookaas come and eat out your livers!<br/>
There is no profit in using religion as<br/>
a thing to sport with in this way. Is<br/>
not religion a means for gaining alivi-<br/>
hood? What man who has any know-<br/>
ledge of mankind, and has seen any-<br/>
thing, does not know that every reli-<br/>
gion, whether false or true, is in the<br/>
beginning started and propagated by<br/>
tradition, and that men coming after-<br/>
wards take it up and carry it and put<br/>
their trust in it. And finally they fall<br/>
to speaking invidiously of other per-<br/>
sons saying—-this man is a believer,<br/>
that man is an unbeliever, people of<br/>
that sect will go to hell, people of this<br/>
sect will go to heaven. Now where<br/>
shall we get any light to show us<br/>
where hell is, or where heaven is?<br/>
Who knows? Who among men has<br/>
seen the one or the other that he<br/>
should feel authorized to speak thus of<br/>
either? It is all in vain thus to talk.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Domestic Animals of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER II.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As our former chapter was on the<br/>
interesting subject of Dogs so this, to<br/>
be in due order, must be on the scarce-<br/>
ly less interesting topic of Cats.<br/>
These highly domesticated animals are<br/>
not nearly as numerous as the canine<br/>
tribes, yet the habitations of men in<br/>
Siam seem to be quite overrun with<br/>
them, being in far greater proportion<br/>
to the people than you will find in<br/>
Europe or America. They would ap-<br/>
pear to be full as prolific as their<br/>
neighbors the dogs, but the latter so<br/>
tyrannize over them as to prevent an<br/>
equal increase. As in all parts of the<br/>
world so in Siam it is natural for dogs<br/>
to tease cats by barking and growling<br/>
at them, and on the other hand for<br/>
cats to attempt to hold their peculiar<br/>
rights under the table, in the sink<br/>
room, and all over the house by grow-<br/>
ling back with hair all on end and<br/>
then in a favorable moment, in the<br/>
twinkling of an eye pitch into their<br/>
faces giving them a terrible scratch-<br/>
ing. A strange dog cannot stand such<br/>
treatment however powerful he may<br/>
be at his own home. A little mother<br/>
cat will send any such creature out<br/>
of doors in a jiffy with terrible cry-<br/>
ing for mercy. But dogs when they<br/>
come to feel at home at any place,<br/>
gradually get the upper hand of the<br/>
cats, especially, if they are pinched<br/>
with hunger, and will pitch upon them<br/>
with terrible and destructive vengeance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siamese love cats much more than<br/>
dogs. The latter are regarded as having<br/>
a vicious nature, the former as being<br/>
meek, gentle, and loving. The people<br/>
have many superstitious notions about<br/>
cats, handed down both by tradition<br/>
and books. They are highly regard-<br/>
ed, not for their mousing propensities,<br/>
but for the superstition that in some<br/>
mysterious way they bring prosperity<br/>
to the family which nourishes them.<br/>
And there is a great choice in them<br/>
for this end. The possession of a<br/>
silver colored cat is accounted one of<br/>
the best insurances for future pros-<br/>
perity. A black cat with nine white<br/>
spots upon it in the right places is ac-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
counted a great prize. The spots must<br/>
be placed one on each foot, one on<br/>
the forehead, one on the neck,<br/>
one on the belly one on the back and<br/>
one on the tail. A cat with more<br/>
white spots than these, but not pro-<br/>
perly located has no particular mer-<br/>
it. A jet black cat with black claws<br/>
is accounted one of the very best,<br/>
but such are rarely if ever found. It is<br/>
strange that the Siamese with all their<br/>
veneration of the white Elephant,<br/>
white monkeys, white squirrels, white<br/>
crows, etc., should evince a great dis-<br/>
like of white cats; and this too, we<br/>
are informed, because they are prone<br/>
to lead their owners into misfor-<br/>
tune. Consequently such cats every<br/>
where meet with great neglect and<br/>
sometimes with cruel treatment from<br/>
even Buddhists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is affirmed and believed that cats<br/>
are sometimes not only pledges of<br/>
good to their owners, but positively<br/>
bring good things to them. As for<br/>
example it is said a good cat will<br/>
sometimes go to a neighbor's house<br/>
or boat and stealthily bring away a<br/>
purse of money and lay it down at<br/>
her owners feet. Such deeds would<br/>
of course be enough to establish the<br/>
notion that cats of the right stamp are<br/>
invaluable living pledges of "better<br/>
times coming" to the families with<br/>
which they are connected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some cats are highly prized because<br/>
of some peculiarity about the lens of<br/>
their eyes which their owners fancy<br/>
are "pearls of great price" in the<br/>
process of forming. Some of the lens<br/>
appear to be bluish, some greenish,<br/>
and others white. Not long since a<br/>
Siamese Prince of high rank sent a<br/>
cat to us for examination, wishing to<br/>
learn our estimation of the pre-<br/>
cious stones that had been formed in<br/>
his eyes. We had a look at the crea-<br/>
ture much in the style of an Ophthal-<br/>
mic surgeon, and found both lenses<br/>
simply opaque and consequently the<br/>
eyes were blind in the day time with<br/>
a little improvement in the evening,<br/>
being precisely the symptoms of a<br/>
common cataract of the eye. It<br/>
seemed to be quite a sad disappoint-<br/>
ment even to those sereants of the<br/>
Prince, to hear our opinion that there<br/>
was no value in the two white<br/>
pearls in the cats eyes. It appears<br/>
that the Siamese never kill the cats<br/>
to get these jewels, but wait patiently<br/>
until the creature dies a natural death,<br/>
and then watchfully wait for the de-<br/>
composition of the eyes until they<br/>
can at leisure disengage them from the<br/>
mass of putrifaction. Such relics are<br/>
preserved with the greatest care as<br/>
having power to protect the possessor<br/>
against evil spirits and deadly wounds<br/>
from enemies. They are often set in<br/>
a little gold frame, somewhat as a pre-<br/>
cious stone is set in a finger ring, and<br/>
then by means of a string around the<br/>
waist worn over the stomach as an<br/>
amulet. It is believed that the best<br/>
of these stones will render a man in-<br/>
vulnerable to swords, daggers and<br/>
even to gun shot. Who knows but<br/>
the Siamese soldiers under Nai Pan<br/>
the Siamese Ambassador in Paris<br/>
in 1660 had something of the kind<br/>
about them?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a peculiar propensity in<br/>
Siamese cats to be born with a mal-<br/>
formation of their tails. The tail is<br/>
short at the best, and the end of it for<br/>
an inch or more is crooked almost at<br/>
right angles and remains permanently<br/>
so. It is a great deformity, but one<br/>
which some Europeans seem to re-<br/>
gard as an evidence of a good mouser.<br/>
The Siamese themselves have no par-<br/>
ticular love or hatred for such tails.<br/>
An American sea-faring wag, a year<br/>
or two since, hit upon quite an appro-<br/>
priate name for such cats. He called<br/>
them the crochet cat because their<br/>
tails were somewhat in the shape of a<br/>
crochet needle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to mousing propensities, Siam-<br/>
ese cats never have any because they<br/>
seldom if ever see a mouse to catch.<br/>
But they have no want of employ-<br/>
ment in catching rats, for they are<br/>
ever abundant and yet we must say<br/>
that they appear to go at this their<br/>
proper business, generally, with very<br/>
little spirit. Perhaps it arises from<br/>
their having been brought up and<br/>
educated in a Buddhist country where<br/>
animal killing is quite disreputable!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a very rare occurrence for a<br/>
cat to be killed by a direct intention<br/>
of a Buddhist. The horror of killing<br/>
them is much greater than that of<br/>
dogs. The reason of this seems to be,<br/>
that they are regarded as being far<br/>
more valuable to man as pledges of<br/>
temporal good than dogs, and be-<br/>
cause they seldom do any thing to<br/>
arouse the anger of man. They ap-<br/>
pear so amiable and loving, that it is<br/>
like pulling teeth for Buddhists to<br/>
raise their hands against, them. If at<br/>
any time they become troublesome by<br/>
their great numbers in a house,<br/>
they are picked up and carried away<br/>
blind-folded to a distant temple or<br/>
homestead, and there turned out to<br/>
seek a living as best they can among<br/>
utter strangers. We not unfrequent-<br/>
ly find on a evening or early in<br/>
the morning one or two kittens cast<br/>
as foundlings at our door; and a dirty<br/>
white cat an utter stranger, miserably<br/>
emaciated is just now trying to ingra-<br/>
tiate himself into our favor. But he<br/>
has to stand afar off from our mother<br/>
cat and her aristocratic family old and<br/>
young. There has already been sev-<br/>
eral terribly snarling fights between<br/>
them, and the stranger has been<br/>
thoroughly beaten and gone to<br/>
seek refuge with our neighbor, who,<br/>
strange to say, had no old settlers to<br/>
hinder his entering quietly in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[He was permitted to remain until<br/>
his thieving propensities led him into<br/>
the cookhouse, where he found a chick-<br/>
en all ready for dinner, and helped<br/>
himself to the whole of it, when he<br/>
was forcibly expelled by being pitch-<br/>
ed into the nearest temple grounds. G.]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Spring and the Tamarind
Tree.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Tamarindus indica)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though our dry season is continuing<br/>
beyond the usual bounds, with quite<br/>
an uncommon absence of showers at<br/>
the vernal equinox and with extraor-<br/>
dinary heat, it is nevertheless a spring<br/>
time for very many of our trees which<br/>
have deep roots. It is quite cheering to<br/>
look upon the new dresses with which<br/>
they are now coming out. Tamarind<br/>
trees, especially, are to us exquisitely<br/>
beautiful. We have nine or ten of<br/>
them in our door yard. These trees<br/>
when planted in rather isolated lo-<br/>
calities uniformly take charming forms,<br/>
having a short trunk with magnificent<br/>
branches arranged with the greatest<br/>
disorder, but with the most pleasing<br/>
variety of wildness. The trees which<br/>
we planted fourteen years since when<br/>
not more than an inch in diameter two<br/>
feet above the ground, are now sixteen<br/>
inches at the same hight. This rapid<br/>
growth will indicate the great strength<br/>
of this soil. And it should be borne<br/>
in mind that the wood of the Tamarind<br/>
is as hard and close grained as that of<br/>
an apple tree, and not any of your<br/>
soft timber which naturally grows<br/>
with the rapidity of a sugar cane.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The trunks of our Tamarind trees<br/>
are not more than six feet high, at<br/>
which elevation the trees divide off in-<br/>
to many crooked yet smooth limbs,<br/>
standing outward and upward at such<br/>
angles as to form a uniform hemisph-<br/>
erical top, about 90 feet in circumier-<br/>
ence, extending upward in a most<br/>
beautiful curve from 15 to 20 feet from<br/>
the top of the trunk.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The largest Tamarind trees that we<br/>
have seen in Siam would not, probably,<br/>
measure more than four feet through 6<br/>
feet from the ground, with trunks less<br/>
than 20 feet high,and tops superseded<br/>
extending upward to the hight of 50<br/>
or 60 feet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The usual appearance of the Tam-<br/>
arind foliage is much like that of the<br/>
locust tree of America, but with a<br/>
smaller and more delicate leaf and a<br/>
richer green. Twenty eight or thirty<br/>
leaflets an inch long and a quarter<br/>
broad grow on one leafstalk, and from<br/>
10 to 20 leafstalks on one of the smal-<br/>
lest branches. The new leaves now<br/>
unfolding are exquisitely delicate and<br/>
beautiful, displaying a variety of tints<br/>
as the purple, the pink, the red and<br/>
the pea-green.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The time occupied in casting off<br/>
the old leaves is not usually more than<br/>
a fortnight, and some times less than<br/>
that. It is curious to observe the per-<br/>
fect harmony among the trees in<br/>
changing their livery without any ap-<br/>
parent external influence like that of<br/>
a blast from frost to force them to it.<br/>
You may see the trees in the morning<br/>
quite thickly covered with old leaves.<br/>
A little brush of wind or a dash of<br/>
rain will in less than an hour precip-<br/>
itate the most of them to the ground,<br/>
and display all of a sudden the beauti-<br/>
ful new dress that had till their been<br/>
quite hidden. And you will be sur-<br/>
prised to observe then, for the first<br/>
time, charming clusters of pink and<br/>
red flower buds, and even blossoms<br/>
already developed. These are of the<br/>
general form of pea flowers, but much<br/>
smaller and more delicate, their petals<br/>
being penciled with yellow, pink, and<br/>
purple on a ground work of pearly<br/>
white.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The fruit of the Tamarind is a large,<br/>
crooked, and rough pod from four to six<br/>
inches long and less than one in diam-<br/>
eter. It requires about ten months to<br/>
bring the pods to perfection. When ripe,<br/>
the seed and pulp are quite loose and<br/>
rattle in the dry pod which has then<br/>
become a brittle shell. The natives<br/>
are very fond of the fruit in a green<br/>
state and eat it with the seed and pod.<br/>
Its keen tart gives a good relish for<br/>
food. You can usually purchase 4 or<br/>
500 pods of Tamarinds for 7½ cents,<br/>
the pulp and seeds being taken out of<br/>
the pods and neatly packed in pack-<br/>
ages of 100 or more each. But this<br/>
year it is so scarce that you can scarcely<br/>
get 100 pods for that price.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tamarind wood is durable, hard<br/>
and beautifully veined. The natives use<br/>
the tender leaves in their curries, as<br/>
they do also the pulp. The seeds re-<br/>
duced to a fine powder and boiled forms<br/>
a tenacious paste, and a strong wood<br/>
cement, if a little glue be added.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fruits of all kinds that should be<br/>
ripe in April and May when most<br/>
needed of all seasons of the year, are<br/>
very scarce this year. It was pre-<br/>
dicted early in February, when we<br/>
had an uncommonly copious rain,<br/>
that that would surely produce a<br/>
great crop of mangoes and other<br/>
spring fruit; but it proves to have<br/>
been a false prophecy. And the prin-<br/>
ciple cause of the failure we conceive<br/>
to have been the drought in 1864<br/>
which cut off the rice crop. The im-<br/>
pression made then on all these fruit<br/>
bearing trees was too deep to be ef-<br/>
faced by ever so favorable rains in so<br/>
short a space of time.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok Recorder."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR,-—I have been thinking for some<br/>
time that I would try to write you a<br/>
kind of a letter of condolence, but the<br/>
truth of the matter is, I am a "shock-<br/>
ing" bad writer, and the weather has<br/>
really been so hot, that I could not<br/>
get myself worked up to the writing<br/>
point, or in other words I could not<br/>
get the efflatus up. Some folks may<br/>
say I have not got it up yet, but then<br/>
we can't mind what every body says.<br/>
I suppose there never would have been<br/>
a great man in the world, if he had<br/>
kept taking into account what every<br/>
one had to say about him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But speaking of the weather-—it is<br/>
very difficult to write these days, with<br/>
the thermometer at 96º in the shade,<br/>
and also having enjoyed the luxury of<br/>
a night sweat during the previous<br/>
night. In the early morning it is ge-<br/>
nerally quite pleasant, but the sun<br/>
soon rises, and like the rest of us, is<br/>
apparently not the least bit refreshed<br/>
by his night's repose, and keeps roast-<br/>
ing away at us from the time he rises<br/>
until he sets. A slight shower of<br/>
rain the other morning accompanied<br/>
with some thunder, had a salutary ef-<br/>
fect upon the atmosphere for a time,<br/>
but it soon passed off again. Flitting<br/>
clouds however, and the watery ap-<br/>
pearance of the sky indicate that ere<br/>
long we will be refreshed by copious<br/>
showers. Almost every body says<br/>
that this is the warmest weather they<br/>
have ever experienced in Siam, and<br/>
what every body says must of course<br/>
be true. There is a tendency in hu-<br/>
man nature, however, to apply the su-<br/>
perlative degree to the last scene<br/>
through which they have passed, what-<br/>
ever that scene may have been. Did<br/>
you ever see a ship Captain who did<br/>
not consider the last gale or storm<br/>
through which he had passed the<br/>
most severe one he had ever been in?<br/>
Whether the thermometer has really<br/>
stood higher than it did through the<br/>
hot season last year, or not I can't say,<br/>
but I can say that I have never expe-<br/>
rienced anything which so much af-<br/>
fected me as the last few weeks. The<br/>
fault however may not be in the wea-<br/>
ther but in me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But I am going astray from the sub-<br/>
ject with which I started out; and you<br/>
must take this as a kind of prologue<br/>
to that which is to come. It may be<br/>
imprudent in me to do so, but I deem<br/>
it my duty to inform you, that for<br/>
some time you have not been so firm-<br/>
ly fixed upon the throne of the<br/>
"Fourth Estate" as you might rea-<br/>
sonably suppose. A rather formidable<br/>
conspiracy has been in progress against<br/>
you, and although the principle dan-<br/>
ger is now past, or at least so far as I<br/>
can see it is past, I still deem it my<br/>
duty to congratulate you upon what<br/>
you have escaped, and condole you<br/>
upon any trouble that may yet be in<br/>
store for you. You have unfortuna-<br/>
tely brought down upon you some of<br/>
the "powers that be" and also some<br/>
of those that "would be." It is even<br/>
whispered that some of those from<br/>
whom you might expect better things,<br/>
secretly wish for your demise. But<br/>
it is also whispered that those powers<br/>
to which you are most immediately<br/>
amenable, are all right, and if that be<br/>
so, you need not fear, though a host<br/>
encamp against you. The fact is your<br/>
kingdom diffuses too much light for<br/>
some of your neighbors; and there are<br/>
fears that some dark regions might be<br/>
illuminated, and some revelations<br/>
made. If I were a monarch, there is<br/>
no other realm in which I would ra-<br/>
ther reign than in yours, but at the<br/>
same time I suppose there is no other,<br/>
in which the duties of the sovereign<br/>
are more arduous. Especially is that<br/>
the case in a place like this where the<br/>
loyal subjects are few, and each one<br/>
has his own peculiar views and tastes.<br/>
Every one too is a critic, and can talk<br/>
learnedly upon the subjects of law<br/>
science, theology and of business, in<br/>
short all those subjects, with which<br/>
you have to deal. Should the Edi-<br/>
tor attempt to instruct them upon<br/>
these subjects, of course he is ridicul-<br/>
ed as being incompetent. I don't of<br/>
course pretend to say that you do al-<br/>
ways exactly right, or that you are not<br/>
sometimes justly criticised, or that<br/>
your selections, and editorials are al-<br/>
ways the very best, under the circum-<br/>
stances. You, like the rest of man-<br/>
kind, have your failings, but you<br/>
mean to do right. Your intentions<br/>
are good. Men as a general thing<br/>
like to see themselves in print, but<br/>
they are sometimes particular about<br/>
the connections. You should be ex-<br/>
ceedingly careful not to mention any<br/>
of their faults, or short comings, but<br/>
always put in a little praise or flattery,<br/>
whether they deserve it or not. It<br/>
don't cost much, and a little goes a<br/>
great ways. Make it general too, don't<br/>
heap it all on a few. With a little<br/>
care you may weather the present<br/>
storm, and afterwards manage to steer<br/>
clear.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You will ever find me ready to con-<br/>
dole with you upon any appearance of<br/>
grief, and in the mean time I remain<br/>
as usual.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours Sincerely,
SCRIBBLER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARRIED.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 26th inst. at the residence of<br/>
Captain John Bush Harbor master and<br/>
M. Attendant-—by Rev: Wm. Dean<br/>
D. D.—-Mr. James Clifton Campbell<br/>
of New York, Inspector of customs<br/>
in this city, to Miss Mary Greig of<br/>
Edinburgh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were about 44 resident Eu-<br/>
ropeans and American to witness the<br/>
ceremony, after which the whole party<br/>
partook of a sumptuous dinner with<br/>
appropriate toasts, given by the Am-<br/>
erican Consul, the English Consul, the<br/>
Harbor Master and others.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Chow Phya Kala-<br/>
home the Prime Minister kindly gran-<br/>
ted the party the use of his brass Band,<br/>
who played several airs during the<br/>
dinner. After dinner dancing com-<br/>
menced and continued until after<br/>
midnight.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The premises were very elaborate-<br/>
ly decorated with flags, flowers, and<br/>
evergreens, and had a most imposing<br/>
appearance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every one appeared happy and well<br/>
satisfied both with the ceremony and<br/>
the feast. Dr. Dean was highly com-<br/>
plimented for the satisfactory manner<br/>
in which he had performed the marri-<br/>
age service.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. S. M. Gun-boat “Impregnable”<br/>
left on the morning of the 25th bound<br/>
for Singapore. W. H. Read Esqr.<br/>
went as passenger. It is we believe<br/>
intended that the “Impregnable”<br/>
shall take the place of the “Chow<br/>
Phya” in conveying mails between<br/>
this and Singapore until the latter<br/>
shall have undergone thorough repairs<br/>
in Dock at Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our American friends T. Miller and<br/>
G. Clark left for Hongkong on the<br/>
21st. inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
J. Hood Esq. Am. Consul, we un-<br/>
derstand, has changed his residence<br/>
from the Chandler mansion to the brick<br/>
house of Messrs Pickenpack Thies &<br/>
Co. a location more central than the<br/>
former.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On Saturday evening the 21st inst.<br/>
while the daily shipping reports of<br/>
Messrs Dyer, Schmidt & Co. were be-<br/>
ing printed, one of the men who came<br/>
with the boat, being left in charge of<br/>
it at our landing, while the other was<br/>
getting the reports, stole the boat, and<br/>
as far as we know, has not since been<br/>
heard of. The other man remained<br/>
in our compound till about 6 A. M. on<br/>
Sabbath morning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the weather is always a never<br/>
failing topic of remark in all our dai-<br/>
ly meetings, so it may not be thought<br/>
altogether out of taste and place for<br/>
this issue of the *Bangkok Recorder*<br/>
to speak the 3rd or 4th time on this<br/>
fruitful theme. As all our previous<br/>
remarks were made before the<br/>
type came to a fixture on the bed of<br/>
the press, we may on the eve of this day<br/>
report that the residents of Bangkok<br/>
enjoyed the great luxury of a thun-<br/>
der shower this morning. The rain<br/>
though scanty was enough to cheer all<br/>
our hearts and enliven greatly all the<br/>
families of the vegetable kingdom in<br/>
the metropolis. The electrical influ-<br/>
ences and the rain combined have<br/>
brought the temperature down 10 de-<br/>
grees, at least, and have even extended<br/>
so high as to cheer the king of day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the water of our noble river, in<br/>
consequence of the long absence of<br/>
rain, has become quite brackish, and<br/>
as our stores of rain water and fresh<br/>
river water taken in November and<br/>
kept for drinking purposes had become<br/>
nearly exhausted, we hoped to have<br/>
replenished our stores to day. But it<br/>
requires a copious rain to wash off<br/>
suitably the filth from our tiled and<br/>
thatched roofs that has been accumul-<br/>
ating on them during the course of two<br/>
months of drought, and the rain this<br/>
morning was not sufficient for that.<br/>
Hence we are living in hope that our<br/>
Heavenly Father will send us another<br/>
shower soon, of which there is every<br/>
probability we shall have an abund-<br/>
ance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to inform our distant<br/>
readers that it is indeed true as sur-<br/>
mised by us in our last issue, that Mes-<br/>
srs J. Thomson and H. G. Kennedy<br/>
have returned from the famous city<br/>
Ongcor in Cambodia. They arrived<br/>
on the 17th inst, coming from Cam-<br/>
poot up the gulf in a small country<br/>
boat. They were absent on their tour<br/>
of observation nearly three months,<br/>
spending about three weeks at the mar-<br/>
vellous temple in ruins and its vi-<br/>
cinity. They seem to think that<br/>
"the half had not been told them" of<br/>
what they saw, and that they them-<br/>
selves, even, have only entered the<br/>
vestibule of future discoveries. In-<br/>
deed so far as our poor *Recorder* is<br/>
concerned, their ideas are as yet quite<br/>
inexpressible. But we hope by much<br/>
importunity to induce one or both of<br/>
those scientific travelers to take up<br/>
their pens to give us at least a smatter-<br/>
ing of what they have seen and learn-<br/>
ed in that second Ninevah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the "Hard Case"<br/>
spoken of in our issue of the 13th<br/>
inst. promises to result in good not<br/>
only to the noble Siamese sailor who<br/>
so valiantly fought the pirates and<br/>
helped to save the "Conqueror," but<br/>
also to the cause of Siamese sailors<br/>
generally. It will be remembered<br/>
that that Siamese *Tar* was not only<br/>
turned adrift without any substantial<br/>
applause from the owner of the ship or<br/>
any one else, but also with scarcely<br/>
money enough to pay the Surgeon's<br/>
small bill for his care of the wounds he<br/>
received in resisting the pirates. We<br/>
published substantially that state-<br/>
ment of the hard case in our Siamese<br/>
"Recorder" a few days later, and that<br/>
together with a few plain and practi-<br/>
cal remarks we appended seems to<br/>
have hit the mark at which it was<br/>
aimed, and roused a determination on<br/>
the part of Chawsôoa ———— to deal<br/>
well by that sailor. It may be that he<br/>
had the good intention before, as he inti-<br/>
mated to us in conversation a week<br/>
since, but, if all be true that has been<br/>
reported of that sailor, Mr.—was cer-<br/>
tainly culpable in keeping it locked<br/>
up in his own bosom so long.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to us that the commanding<br/>
officers of Siamese merchantmen<br/>
should take special pains to honor such<br/>
of their men as the one above refer-<br/>
red to, as naval commanders do their<br/>
remarkably gallant men. In doing<br/>
so they would do much to awaken a<br/>
noble enthusiasm in Siamese to per-<br/>
form like deeds of valor in like circum-<br/>
stances. This spirit is but in its in-<br/>
fancy as regards the Siamese in every<br/>
department. But as it has been born,<br/>
and is really breathing among them,<br/>
it may and must be well nourished as<br/>
it has been in Europe where it was<br/>
once as puny and infantile as here.<br/>
Let all Siamese owners of ships and<br/>
their commanders take up this infant<br/>
destined for great good and glory in<br/>
Siam and feed it with the best milk<br/>
of their approbation. Let the Sia-<br/>
mese government lend her powerful<br/>
hand. Let all the monied men and<br/>
others of influence contribute to its<br/>
growth and well being. And then,<br/>
not many years hence, Siam will not<br/>
be wanting for gallant men in any<br/>
department, whether of literature, ag-<br/>
riculture, commerce, the army, the<br/>
navy, the church or the state.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—-</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">58</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">50</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅞</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—White</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BROWN</td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent2 >}}" HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅕</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">210</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">115</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">55</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">285</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">770</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">630</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">210</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">27</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5 p</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7 "</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅞</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9 "</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BEES WAX</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRADOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">315</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 Pic.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">170</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">250</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF—</td>
 <td colspan="4">Tic. 16 P Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—-On Singapore 1 P cent dis-<br/>
count 10 d. s. Hongkong 3 P cent discount<br/>
30 d. s. London 4s. 8d. 86 m. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Good Wives.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is nothing men like to write<br/>
about better than good wives. This<br/>
is reasonable enough, for there is noth-<br/>
ing, certainly, in which mankind are<br/>
more interested. "A good wife," says<br/>
one, "is to a man wisdom and courage,<br/>
and hope, and endurance, "The pow-<br/>
er of a wife," says another, "for good<br/>
or evil", is almost irresistible." "No<br/>
spirit," it is said again, "can long re-<br/>
sist bad domestic influences;" and yet<br/>
again, "No condition is hopeless when<br/>
the wife possesses firmness, decision,<br/>
energy, and economy." "A bad wife,"<br/>
remarks one of the authors already<br/>
quoted, "is confusion, weakness, dis-<br/>
comfiture, despair," ",bad enough, is it<br/>
not, good woman! Then of home,<br/>
the same son says: "If at home, a man<br/>
finds no rest, and is there met with a<br/>
bad temper, sullenness, or gloom, or<br/>
is assailed by discontent, complaint,<br/>
and reproaches, the heart breaks, the<br/>
spirit is crushed, hope vanishes, and<br/>
the man sinks into total despair."<br/>
There is, however, another side of<br/>
this picture. Influence is not all on<br/>
one side. Man has some influence.<br/>
Women may be happy or miserable<br/>
as they have good or bad husbands;<br/>
in fact, they may become good or bad<br/>
as they are influenced by those to<br/>
whom they are indissolubly bound.<br/>
And we believe husbands have a little<br/>
to do with making homes happy as<br/>
well as wives. If when the wife has<br/>
done her best to make home happy,<br/>
her efforts are met by reproaches, and<br/>
temper, sullenness, gloom, discontent,<br/>
and complaint, by a husband who<br/>
thinks the whole sphere of a wife's<br/>
duty lies in listening to his fault-find-<br/>
ing, ,bearing his ill-nature, and return-<br/>
ing caresses and smiles for his irrita-<br/>
tions and peevishness; in short, mak-<br/>
ing it her chief end to bear and soothe<br/>
his reasonable and unreasonable com-<br/>
plaints, it is not strange she, too,<br/>
should sink into despair.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Neither husbands nor wives have<br/>
any just claim on their other halves to<br/>
supply all the stock of goodness for<br/>
the uses of the family. If a married<br/>
man desires a better wife, let him<br/>
teach her to be good. Let him prac-<br/>
tise the art of goodness himself, and<br/>
exercise towards her all of those ami-<br/>
able qualities he would so delight in<br/>
being the object of. Almost invaria-<br/>
bly it would be happiness lent, to re-<br/>
turn eventually with a liberal interest.<br/>
British Workman.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
English Feeling about
Jamaica.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An able Englishman writes of the<br/>
shudder that the Jamaican massacres<br/>
threw over England as follows. The<br/>
rap which the last paragraph gives the<br/>
author of the Sartor Resartus is ra-<br/>
ther severe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I am glad to say that the last in-<br/>
telligence from Jamaica has created a<br/>
most painful impression throughout<br/>
England, and the attacks in the Gov-<br/>
ernor's speech against the Baptist mis-<br/>
sionaries have excited the indignation<br/>
of the "religious" world to an unpre-<br/>
cedented degree. My own impression<br/>
is that, quite apart from any other<br/>
considerations, the political pressure<br/>
which the Dissenting communities can<br/>
bring to bear upon all borough mem-<br/>
bers of Parliament will ensure deci-<br/>
sive action on the part of the Govern-<br/>
ment. Governor Eyre will probably be<br/>
recalled, and a commission of enquiry<br/>
sent out to Jamaica. Such reparation,<br/>
God knows, is alight enough. I wish<br/>
I felt sure it would be granted. In<br/>
spite of the experience of the last<br/>
five years, I never realized till now<br/>
how strongly our educated classes<br/>
were imbued with a sort of sneaking<br/>
pro-slavery sympathy. Mr. Carlyle<br/>
has much to answer for; his influence<br/>
as a teacher, I am thankful to say, is<br/>
dying out; he has outlived his literary<br/>
reputation; and the public has grown<br/>
weary of his tricks of writing, his<br/>
constant repetitions and his stilted style.<br/>
But the influence of his servile wor-<br/>
ship of brute force, his brutal con-<br/>
tempt for the weak, and his prepos-<br/>
terous deification of the one duty of<br/>
work, has survived his fame. His<br/>
twaddle about Black Quashee, the<br/>
"eternal veracities," and the rest of<br/>
the dreary jargon in which slavery<br/>
was really held up to honor and aboli-<br/>
tionism to contempt, have left an evil<br/>
leaven in the minds of the present<br/>
generation of our governing classes;<br/>
Possibly I write too strongly, but then<br/>
I feel strongly on this matter. If you<br/>
could see, as I have seen for years,<br/>
how deep the sophistries to which<br/>
Carlyle gave utterance have worked<br/>
their way into the minds of educated<br/>
Englishmen, you would, I think, share<br/>
my feelings. In my judgment, the<br/>
author of the "Latter-Day Pamph-<br/>
lets" has done as much to pervert the<br/>
moral sense of his countrymen as he<br/>
has to degrade their language. More<br/>
than that I cannot say."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—Sentimental arithmetic calculates<br/>
thus:—-Two glances-—make one look;<br/>
two looks—-make one sigh; four sighs<br/>
—-make one waltz; three waltzes—-<br/>
make one palpitate; two palpitations<br/>
-—make one call; two calls—-make one<br/>
attention; two attentions-—make one<br/>
fool (sometimes two); two fools—-<br/>
make one flirtation; one flirtation plus<br/>
two bouquets equal to one engagement,<br/>
equal to one marriage.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
HEALTH AND WEALTH.-—There is a<br/>
difference between these two temporal<br/>
blessings—-health and money. Money<br/>
is the most envied, but the least en-<br/>
joyed; health is frequently enjoyed, but<br/>
the least envied; and this superiority<br/>
of the latter is more obvious, when we<br/>
reflect that the poorest man would not<br/>
part with health for money, but that<br/>
the richest would gladly part with all<br/>
his money for health.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Yourself.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Think about yourself, about what<br/>
you like, what respect people ought to<br/>
pay you, what people think of you,<br/>
and then to you nothing will be pure.<br/>
You will spoil every thing that you<br/>
touch; you will make sin and misery<br/>
for yourself out of everything God<br/>
sends you. You will become as wretch-<br/>
ed as you choose, on earth or in<br/>
heaven either.—In heaven either, I<br/>
say; for that proud, greatly, self seek-<br/>
ing spirit would turn heaven into hell.<br/>
It did turn heaven into hell for the<br/>
great devil himself. —-Kingsley.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOVE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}It is not on the mountains,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Nor the palaces of pride,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That Love will fold his wings up,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And rejoicingly abide.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But in meek and humble natures<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Its home is ever found,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}As the lark that sings in heaven<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Builds its nests upon the ground.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}-—Laman Blanchard.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
General Schurz's Report.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This report on the condition of<br/>
things in the Southern States is much<br/>
the most important that has come to<br/>
us. We are almost ready to say, it<br/>
is worth the rest combined. The<br/>
choice of such a man as Carl Schurz<br/>
for the duty he has done implied an<br/>
earnestness of purpose and a deter-<br/>
mination to obtain the whole and the ex-<br/>
act truth, which reassured the friends<br/>
of liberty and terrified its foes. For<br/>
this man had eyes to see, mind to com-<br/>
prehend, heart to feel, and tongue to<br/>
speak. He accepted the trust under<br/>
a profound sence of responsibility; he<br/>
went; he devoted three months to the<br/>
task of observation in the states of<br/>
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama,<br/>
Mississippi, and the Department of the<br/>
Gulf. He had every facility, and he<br/>
used every opportunity, neglecting no<br/>
means of information, and drawing<br/>
swift but sure inferences as he went<br/>
along. Here we have his report. It<br/>
covers nearly three broad pages of the<br/>
Tribune with fine print, exclusive of<br/>
the great mass of documentary testi-<br/>
mony in every form by which his sep-<br/>
arate statements are made good. To<br/>
that documentary testimony he appeals<br/>
for proof that he has studiously avoided<br/>
overstatements, and has uttered no lan-<br/>
guage stronger than was warranted by<br/>
his convictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A calmer, quieter, more reasonable<br/>
more careful, but at the same time,<br/>
more terrible, paper was never written.<br/>
It describes a state of affairs in every<br/>
aspect appalling. It has many subdi-<br/>
visions; it treats of many subjects; it<br/>
touches on every phase of life and<br/>
thought; it searches keenly the whole<br/>
Southern mind; it lays bare the very<br/>
nerves of the social system; but from<br/>
no quarter does it bring any but sad tid-<br/>
ings, and in no direction does it point<br/>
to any certain deliverance. The situ-<br/>
ation of the Union men throughout the<br/>
country he visited affected him sadly.<br/>
The further his observations extended,<br/>
the clearer it became to him that their<br/>
existence in the South was of a preca-<br/>
rious nature. Gov. Sharkey even ad-<br/>
mitted that, if our troops were drawn<br/>
from Mississippi, the lives of Northern<br/>
men would not be safe. And Gen. Os-<br/>
terhaus assured him that, in the event<br/>
of withdrawing the troops, the state of<br/>
affairs would be intolerable for all Un-<br/>
ion men and all recent emigrants from<br/>
the North.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If this be the state of feeling in re-<br/>
gard to the white loyalists, what must<br/>
it be toward the black? On every<br/>
ground, and in every particular, as de-<br/>
plorable as can be imagined. As<br/>
black people, as people who stood by<br/>
the government, as people who have<br/>
been slaves and are now free, as people<br/>
who were always despised, and who now,<br/>
in addition to being despised, are both<br/>
hated and feared, they are subjected to<br/>
every species of annoyance and perse-<br/>
cution. The mere specification of<br/>
their various indignities would occupy<br/>
more space than our whole article must<br/>
fill. Their ignorance and docility are<br/>
practiced on in every conceivable way.<br/>
They are cheated, over-reached, pillag-<br/>
ed, turned adrift, insulted, beaten, tied<br/>
up by the thumbs, maimed, and mur-<br/>
dered, without stint. Every device<br/>
that cunning can hit on is resorted to<br/>
for the purpose of reducing them<br/>
again to the condition of slavery.<br/>
Both the former slaveholders and the<br/>
non-slaveholders "are possessed by a<br/>
singularly bitter and vindictive feel-<br/>
ing against the colored race." In<br/>
Alabama, which Gen. Howard's re-<br/>
port passes over so smoothly, "the<br/>
efforts made to hold the negro in a<br/>
state of subjection appear to have<br/>
been of a particularly atrocious nat-<br/>
ure." In portions of the northern<br/>
part of Mississippi, "the colored people<br/>
are kept in slavery still." "Reports<br/>
from sub-commissioners nearest that<br/>
locality show that the blacks are in a<br/>
much worse state than before." In<br/>
South-western Georgia, "organized<br/>
patrols, with negro hounds, keep guard<br/>
over the thoroughfares, and the un-<br/>
fortunate who attempts to escape, or<br/>
he who returns for his wife or child,<br/>
is waylaid or pursued by hounds, and<br/>
shot or hung." Nor is this the worst.<br/>
General Schurz tells us that the white<br/>
people cannot and will not do justice<br/>
to the blacks. Those who accept the<br/>
fact of his emancipation do not ad-<br/>
mit the law of his liberty. They have<br/>
no faith in his capacity for any but<br/>
menial work in the cities, and plan-<br/>
tation work out of them. They have<br/>
no faith that he will work at all except<br/>
under compulsion. They have no<br/>
faith that he can take care of himself<br/>
without patronage. They have no<br/>
faith in the experiment of free black<br/>
labor, though some are willing to try<br/>
it. With very few exceptions, they<br/>
are opposed vehemently to all efforts<br/>
toward his mental, moral, and social<br/>
elevation.{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a word they refuse all light on<br/>
the negro's character and condition,<br/>
assuming that they alone know any-<br/>
thing about him, and insisting on<br/>
making the degradation they have<br/>
brought him to the standard of his<br/>
capacity. He must bear the blame<br/>
for everything that goes wrong. He<br/>
must be held answerable that nothing<br/>
goes right. "I heard a Georgian<br/>
planter argue most seriously that one<br/>
of his negroes had shown himself cer-<br/>
tainly unfit for freedom, because he<br/>
impudently refused to submit to a<br/>
whipping."{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*{{< news/indent1 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is almost superfluous to say that<br/>
in the South itself Gen. Schurs finds<br/>
no remedy for its social decrepitude.<br/>
While cheerfully admitting that there<br/>
are many intelligent, liberal, and<br/>
right-minded men among the former<br/>
slaveholders, their number is insig-<br/>
nificant in the population, and their<br/>
influence hardly appreciable on the<br/>
mass of public opinion. Both leaders<br/>
and people submit from sheer neces-<br/>
sity, and openly say so. Save in ex-<br/>
ceptional instances, there is an entire<br/>
absence of national feeling; there ap-<br/>
pears to be no disposition to accept<br/>
the results of the war in a loyal spirit,<br/>
no wish or purpose to adjust any<br/>
department of society to a new order<br/>
of things. The states have made or-<br/>
dinances abolishing slavery, but<br/>
they will not be looked on as barring<br/>
the establishment of a new form of<br/>
servitude." Bloody collisions, rest-<br/>
less fluctuations, and anarchical con-<br/>
fusion may be expected to follow from<br/>
the course generally adopted toward<br/>
the negroes. There is no help if the<br/>
General Government does not give<br/>
it. The only safety is in its presence<br/>
with law and force. To withdraw the<br/>
troops, Gen. Schurz declares, would<br/>
be exceedingly perilous to loyal people<br/>
of every condition and color. The<br/>
negro must be secured in his personal<br/>
and civil rights; he must be educated;<br/>
he must have the freedom of the<br/>
courts; he must have the suffrage.<br/>
On this last point the General is par-<br/>
ticularly strenuous. He considers<br/>
the suffrage of vital importance to all<br/>
concerned; but he has no expectation<br/>
whatever that the Southern people<br/>
will ever, on their own motion, be in-<br/>
duced to grant it. The masses are<br/>
strongly opposed to it. The per-<br/>
secuted Unionists were the only people<br/>
that were found to favor it. Outside<br/>
of Louisiana, but one Southern gen-<br/>
tleman of social and political standing<br/>
was met who approved of it. The<br/>
only way of securing that crowning<br/>
achievement is, in Carl Schurz's judg-<br/>
ment, to impose it as a condition pre-<br/>
cedent to "re-admission."—-N. Y. In-<br/>
dependent Jan. 4.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Old Type in New Uses.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The energetic and irrepressible Mrs<br/>
Swisshelm has started her new paper<br/>
at Washington, The Reconstruction-<br/>
ist.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It it printed in the type formerly<br/>
used by the Washington Weekly<br/>
News, and the editor says of it:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Taking it in preference to a new<br/>
office, all mixed and pied, and filled<br/>
with sand and cobwebs, as it was, has<br/>
cost us some delay, and made the<br/>
appearance of our paper less attractive<br/>
than new type would have done; but<br/>
our attention once turned to it, we<br/>
could not resist the desire to make<br/>
this old type talk for freedom once at<br/>
least before it was consigned to the<br/>
furnace and purified by fire. Here, at<br/>
the capital of this boasted free country,<br/>
where it had advertised the coffee and<br/>
the slave pen, where it had reported<br/>
spread-eagle Fourth-of-July speeches<br/>
side by side with calls for ‘likely young<br/>
negroes,’ it must proclaim the year of<br/>
jubilee. These old cuts of runaway<br/>
slaves, must not melt in the fervent<br/>
heat of the indignation of God and<br/>
man until they have advertised another<br/>
class of runaways.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“There is poetic justice in making<br/>
this old type tell the world that God<br/>
is faithful and true, that He heard the<br/>
prayers of His saints, wrung out by<br/>
it in agony when the loved, and soon<br/>
to be lost, were thereby offered for the<br/>
southern market. The cries of the<br/>
oppressed did enter into the ears of<br/>
the Lord of Sabbaoth; and the year<br/>
of His redeemed is come. Thank God,<br/>
old type! thank God that the slave is<br/>
free, and will soon vote, here in<br/>
Washington, and in every state of<br/>
this Union, without bowing to his<br/>
former master and saying, “by your<br/>
leave, sir!” —-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
