---
linkTitle: 'September 6th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - September 6th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); September 6th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 58
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, September 6th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 35.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Loved and Lost.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"The loved and lost!" why do we call them<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}lost,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Because we miss them from our onward road?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}God's unseen angel o'er our pathway cros-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}s'd, <br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Looked on us all, and loving them the most,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}throughway relieved them from life's<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}weary load.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}They are not lost ; they are within the door<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That shuts out loss, and every hurtful<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}thing-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With angels bright, and loved ones gone, before,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In their Redeemer's presence evermore,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And God himself their Lord, and Judge,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}and King.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And this we call a "loss;" O selfish sorrow<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Let us look round, some argument to borrow<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Why we in patience should await the<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}morrow, <br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That surely must succeed this night of death.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Aye, look upon this dreary, desert path,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thorns and thistles wheresoe'er we turn;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}What trials and what tears, what wrongs<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}and wrath, <br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}What struggles and what strife the jour-ney hath!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}They have escaped from these; and lo!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}we mourn.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Who with his treasures strove the shore<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}to reach,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}While with the raging waves he battled on,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Was it not joy, where every joy seemed<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}gone, <br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To see his loved ones landed on the beach!<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
—ANON.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LONDON: JULY 9—10. 1866.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE BATTLE OF SADOWA.—The details<br/>
of a great battle like that of Koeniggratz<br/>
or Sadowa are not quickly learnt. Few<br/>
have an opportunity of seeing the gener-<br/>
al plan of attack and defence, and still<br/>
fewer can understand it. In the magni-<br/>
tude of the armies engaged as well as in<br/>
the importance of the interests at stake<br/>
the late battle has seldom been surpassed.<br/>
Nearly a quarter of a million of men<br/>
were arrayed on either side; they exten-<br/>
ded over a great expanse of country, and<br/>
were lead by Royal Generals who exer-<br/>
cised almost independent commands. As<br/>
military historians have disputed for half<br/>
a century about the incidents of Leipsic<br/>
and Waterloo, it may be that this battle,<br/>
which in magnitude equals Leipsic and<br/>
far surpasses Waterloo, will for many a<br/>
year be the subject of controversy. But<br/>
we are happy in having at the seat of<br/>
war a correspondent who is well qualified<br/>
to form a judgment on such operations,<br/>
and who has produced a description<br/>
which, considering the circumstances un-<br/>
der which it was written, is a marvel of<br/>
accurate observation. It is not too much<br/>
to say that we learn from his letter more<br/>
than was known of the action by the<br/>
great majority of those who took part in<br/>
it. The public is, indeed, well served by<br/>
those who narrate these wonderful events<br/>
of war almost before the smoke has<br/>
cleared away from the battle-field. We<br/>
learn so speedily and with such compar-<br/>
ative accuracy the general plan of an en-<br/>
gagement that we are apt to forget how<br/>
recent these advantages have been, and<br/>
to undervalue the assistance which the<br/>
narrative of a competent eye-witness,<br/>
written on the very field and on the very<br/>
day of battle, gives, not only to his con-<br/>
temporaries, but to future historians.<br/>
The grandfathers of the present genera-<br/>
tion were very differently situated with<br/>
respect to the battles which distinguished<br/>
the early part of the present century.<br/>
When Napoleon crushed the two Empe-<br/>
rors at Austerlitz or broke the power of<br/>
Prussia at Jena, there was no such clear<br/>
conception of what had been done. A<br/>
reference to the press of the period will<br/>
confirm what most of us have heard from<br/>
our elders concerning the suspense which<br/>
prevailed during the great campaigns. A<br/>
decisive victory was seldom announced<br/>
as such and accepted by all the world<br/>
within 24 hours. Still less did people<br/>
know the number of men engaged, the<br/>
dispositions of the Generals, the conduct<br/>
of the soldiers, and the various details of<br/>
the action. News came straggling home-<br/>
wards that the campaign was going a-<br/>
gainst the Austrians or the Russians; a<br/>
great firm in the City had it that Bona-<br/>
parte had won another victory, and that<br/>
an armistice, and then a peace, was like-<br/>
ly to be the result. But somebody con-<br/>
tradicted this, the public was warned not<br/>
to believe sinister rumours, and it was<br/>
shown a raison [?] how impossible it was<br/>
that the combinations of the Allies should<br/>
have failed. At last, after a week or ten<br/>
days' suspense, the worst intelligence was<br/>
fully confirmed; but even then the pub-<br/>
lic had no account of the matter more<br/>
trustworthy than Napoleon's bulletins<br/>
and scraps of letters from officers or<br/>
soldiers which might find their way into<br/>
the French papers, and then after a time<br/>
penetrate into this country. Even the<br/>
subsequent victories of the Allies were<br/>
very inadequately understood for a long<br/>
time. The campaign of 1813 was only<br/>
known as a series of tremendous battles<br/>
in and about Saxony, in which the French,<br/>
sometimes victorious and sometimes de-<br/>
feated, were at length overpowered at<br/>
Leipsic, and compelled to fall back on<br/>
the Rhine. The telegraph and the mili-<br/>
tary correspondent have changed all this.<br/>
We probably know more of the battle of<br/>
Königgrätz, which was fought this day<br/>
week, than the British public knew of<br/>
the battle of Leipsic three months after-<br/>
wards. The forces engaged, the com-<br/>
manders, the stations of the different<br/>
corps, the nature of the ground, the man-<br/>
ner of the attack, and the resistance it<br/>
met with, are all described by our cor-<br/>
respondent with an exactness which as-<br/>
sures us that we have the main incidents<br/>
of the battle. All that he saw he tells,<br/>
and his military knowledge enables him<br/>
to form a correct judgment of the oper-<br/>
ations which were beyond his own sur-<br/>
vey. And what a battle it was as here<br/>
described within a few hours after the<br/>
Austrians had been swept from the field,<br/>
and while the Prussians were still pursu-<br/>
ing their retreating legions! There has<br/>
been nothing like it in our time, and on-<br/>
ly once in the great war of the French<br/>
Empire has there been such a contest<br/>
and such a carnage. The whole Prus-<br/>
sian and Austrian armies were engaged;<br/>
all that these two military Monarchies,<br/>
fresh from the repose of a long peace,<br/>
could place in the field was there. The<br/>
delay of Benedek had enabled the two<br/>
main armies of the Prussians, each one<br/>
of them a national host in itself, to com-<br/>
bine, and, as their losses had not been<br/>
large in the previous encounters, they<br/>
confronted the enemy 240,000 strong.<br/>
The Austrians are supposed to have had<br/>
an equal number. A survey of the field<br/>
of battle with a good map will show the<br/>
extent of ground over which these im-<br/>
mense levies of men were spread. It is,<br/>
indeed, wonderful that such extensive<br/>
operations should have been begun and<br/>
completed in a single day. Where nearly<br/>
half-a-million of men and 1,500 guns are<br/>
in the field we might expect a conflict as<br/>
long as Leipsic. But the irresistible onset<br/>
of the Prussians and the skill of their<br/>
Generals decided the battle in a single<br/>
long summer's day. The narratives of its<br/>
incidents given by our correspondent<br/>
does justice to the obstinacy and courage<br/>
of the Austrians, but raises higher our<br/>
estimate of their opponents. It is evid-<br/>
ent that the Austrians were very strong-<br/>
ly posted, and that it was a work of dar-<br/>
ing and endurance to dislodge them. On-<br/>
ly Generals having complete confidence<br/>
in themselves and their troops would<br/>
have ventured on such an enterprise.<br/>
General Benedek could have little hope<br/>
of achieving the objects of the war by<br/>
taking up his "partly intrenched posi-<br/>
tion." The Austrians could not by hold-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ing their ground in Bohemia either de-<br/>
liver Hanover and the Duchies, or make<br/>
those conquests of Prussian territory<br/>
which were to enable them to cede<br/>
Venetia with grace. But if their design<br/>
had been merely to protect their own<br/>
territory, they, perhaps, could not have<br/>
done better. They had a position well<br/>
protected by slope and wood, and they<br/>
made a good use of it. Their artillery<br/>
appears to have been excellent. They<br/>
mowed down the advancing Prussians,<br/>
inflicting on them terrible losses, while<br/>
they themselves were almost uninjured.<br/>
From our correspondent's account we<br/>
must judge that the Prussians did not<br/>
win the day merely by the possession of<br/>
a superior arm. Through a great part of<br/>
their advance the needle-gun gave them<br/>
no superiority. The Austrians were pro-<br/>
tected by the nature of their position,<br/>
and musketry fire was useless against<br/>
them. The capture of the wood above<br/>
Sadowa was accomplished by real hard<br/>
fighting. The Austrians would not retire,<br/>
but waited for the struggle. "The 27th<br/>
Prussian Regiment went in nearly 3,000<br/>
strong, with 90 officers, and came out on<br/>
the further side with only two officers<br/>
and between 300 and 400 men, standing;<br/>
all the rest were killed or wounded.<br/>
Again, when a second wood opposed<br/>
their progress, "they advanced against it,<br/>
but did not at first make much impres-<br/>
sion; for, the Austrians being here again<br/>
concealed, the fire of the needle-gun did<br/>
not tell, and a whole battery placed at<br/>
the far end of the wood fired through the<br/>
trees and told on the Prussian ranks with<br/>
awful effect." These and other incidents<br/>
make it clear that the greatest battle of<br/>
the present age was won by the superior<br/>
prowess of the victors, and was not a con-<br/>
sequence of a merely mechanical advan-<br/>
tage. The needle-gun added, no doubt,<br/>
to the completeness of the victory, but if<br/>
the Prussians had possessed no such<br/>
weapon, the spirit of their onset, and the<br/>
skilful arrangements by which a part of<br/>
their army was brought on to the flank<br/>
and rear of the enemy, would have effec-<br/>
tually dislodged the Austrians from their<br/>
position.—(TIMES.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
From the L. and C. Express July 17th
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Negotiations for Peace.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—M. Benedetti, the French Ambassa-<br/>
dor, and the Count de Barral, Italian<br/>
minister at Berlin, have accompanied the<br/>
King to the Prussian headquarters at<br/>
Brunn. Negotiations are in progress<br/>
there for a truce of three days; and not<br/>
for an armistice. An attaché to M. Bene-<br/>
detti left Brunn on the 14th for Vienna.<br/>
The Berlin official STAATNANZEIGER of<br/>
yesterday says:— "The assertion of vari-<br/>
ous newspapers that Prussia has demanded<br/>
the cession of Bohemia and Moravia<br/>
as a condition of peace are entirely un-<br/>
founded. A glance at the map shows that<br/>
the possessions of these countries by<br/>
Prussia would not be a source of strength,<br/>
but of weakness ; national interests also<br/>
would render such an acquisition undesi-<br/>
rable. The aim of the policy of Prussia<br/>
is directed towards the establishment of <br/>
a new Confederation and the convocation <br/>
of a German Parliament. Connection<br/>
with countries only in part appertaining<br/>
to German nationality would place ob-<br/>
stacles in the way of the assembling of the<br/>
Parliament." The Paris CONSTITU-<br/>
TIONNEL has an article blaming certain<br/>
journals for seeking to induce the French<br/>
Government to require territorial enlarge-<br/>
ment, in order to secure territorial enlarge-<br/>
ment obtained by Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Toulon telegram of yesterday (the<br/>
16th.) states:—-The levy which has been<br/>
ordered throughout the whole maritime<br/>
registry has been countermanded, and<br/>
the arming of the fleet has been suspen-<br/>
ded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEW RIFLE.—-The Snider Enfield<br/>
rifle can be fired fifteen times in a minute,<br/>
while the extreme rate of fire of the Prus-<br/>
sian needle-gun does not exceed six to<br/>
eight shots. The Snider principle admits<br/>
of capping being done away with, and<br/>
that the converted Enfields will be loaded<br/>
with self-igniting cartridges fired by a<br/>
pin, which having struck the cartridge is<br/>
returned by a string to its position.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE BERLIN FEELING ON THE FRENCH<br/>
INTERCESSION.—-Referring to the proffer-<br/>
ed mediation of France, the Berlin NA-<br/>
TIONAL ZEITUNG employs rather confident<br/>
language:—-“Desirous as we are to hope<br/>
for the best from France, still we think<br/>
it necessary to prepare for the worst.<br/>
Little consideration was excercised by<br/>
Louis Napoleon in hastening to reap the<br/>
first fruits of the Prussian victories, and<br/>
procure by a sort of political farce a<br/>
seeming right to interfere. The appro-<br/>
priation of Venice in the ludicrous man-<br/>
ner concerted between the assigner and<br/>
assignee is certainly no very promising<br/>
inauguration of the new public law of<br/>
Europe, which is to replace the treaties<br/>
of 1815. If Italy is content to be held<br/>
in leading-strings by France, Prussia<br/>
cannot be expected to submit to similar<br/>
treatment. Between Prussia and France<br/>
no other relations are possible than such<br/>
as one independent State may bear to<br/>
another, and it will entirely depend on<br/>
the attitude of France whether our former<br/>
good understanding shall continue or not.<br/>
In the latter event we, and with us all<br/>
Germany, shall be forced into the policy<br/>
of 1813, against Louis Napoleon and his<br/>
whole dynasty. The less we speak of<br/>
this alternative just now the better, but<br/>
we all know what it may become our duty<br/>
to do under certain circumstances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Anxiety is again felt for the health<br/>
of the Pope. His Holiness does not sleep<br/>
well; we should be surprised if any<br/>
potentate in Europe, secular or spiritual,<br/>
slept soundly in these times.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The TELEGRAPH or Ktau announced<br/>
that the cholera has appeared in Southern<br/>
Russia, and has fallen with great virulence<br/>
on the towns of Ouman and Krement-<br/>
chong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The BOUDNARIES of the province of<br/>
Venetia are well known, but not very<br/>
generally the extent which it occupies on<br/>
the map of Europe. It contains 23,482<br/>
square kilometres (3,870,500 acres), and<br/>
has 2,493,068 inhabitants.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The P. and O. Company's
Mail Contract.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last convention made between the<br/>
Government and the company is dated<br/>
Feb. 27, 1866. The following extract<br/>
gives the company's contract time. The<br/>
contract now runs subject to a year's<br/>
notice. The penalty for non-delivery in<br/>
the specified time is £50 per day and an<br/>
allowance is made of £25 per day for<br/>
early delivery:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Between Southampton and Alexandria</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">310</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">hours</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Marseilles and ditto</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">155</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Suez and Calcutta</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">499</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Ditto and Bombay</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">312</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Bombay and Hong Kong</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">413</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Hong Kong and Shanghai</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">84</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOW THE NEEDLE-GUN IS USED.-—When<br/>
firing in line the soldier does not stand<br/>
with his front to the enemy, but sideways,<br/>
like the archer when pulling the string<br/>
of his longbow. The musket is not<br/>
brought up to the shoulder, but rests the<br/>
whole time on the bent left arm. After<br/>
each shot the receptacle for the fresh<br/>
cartridge flies open of itself. The cart-<br/>
ridge pouch is fixed to the girdle, and in<br/>
a second the musket is reloaded; a slight<br/>
movement, and it is ready for firing. Dur-<br/>
ing the whole time the musket remains<br/>
in the same place, as on a rest, in the<br/>
hollow of the left arm. The right hand<br/>
only has to be occupied. And in this<br/>
way the Prussian soldier is enabled,<br/>
without the fatigue of muzzle-loading<br/>
and the many movements attendant on<br/>
grounding his piece and again bringing it<br/>
up to his shoulder, to discharge his musket<br/>
seven times in a minute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ORDERS FOR MUSKETS.-—The Ost<br/>
DEUTSCHE POST states that the Austrian<br/>
Ministry of War has ordered 50,000 need-<br/>
le-muskets for the Austrian army. They<br/>
are in course of completion, and will be<br/>
delivered at the rate of 2,000 a day. The<br/>
Prussian Government have already given<br/>
an order for 40,000 of the newly invent-<br/>
ed American gun, which, it is said, allows<br/>
twelve shots to be fired in a minute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE JAMAICA COMMITTEE.—-Mr. Char-<br/>
les Buxton has resigned the chairmanship<br/>
of the Jamaica Committee in consequence<br/>
of that body having committed themselves<br/>
to the prosecution of Mr. Eyre, the late<br/>
Governor of Jamaica, for the murder of<br/>
Mr. Gordon, and a meeting was held to<br/>
choose a successor, the proceedings at<br/>
which were rather stormy. Mr. Peter<br/>
Alfred Taylor, who was in the chair pro<br/>
tem., after referring to the inconvenience<br/>
which he said Mr. Buxton's conduct had<br/>
occasioned, found fault also with Mrs.<br/>
Gordon. It seems that lady has declined<br/>
to prosecute, her opinion being that if<br/>
she could be favoured with an interview<br/>
with her deceased husband he would be<br/>
sure to forbid her doing so. Mr. Buxton<br/>
who was present at the meeting, took oc-<br/>
casion to say that he had not influenced<br/>
Mrs. Gordon in her decision; in fact he<br/>
had not seen her, and as to his differences<br/>
with the committee, if they could have<br/>
prosecuted Mr. Eyre for misgoverning<br/>
the colony he would have been ready to<br/>
take action in the matter, but he could<br/>
not look upon him as being guilty of the<br/>
wilful deliberate murder of Mr. Gordon.<br/>
Mr. Bright was very angry with Mr.<br/>
Buxton for doubting that Mr. Eyre was<br/>
a murderer, and that he ought to be<br/>
punished as such. He had himself, he said,<br/>
discussed that question with one of the<br/>
oldest and most esteemed judges in Eng-<br/>
land, who said—not in his (Mr. Bright's)<br/>
presence alone, but before several per-<br/>
sons—that in his whole life he had never<br/>
seen or known a case more distinctly of<br/>
murder than the putting of Mr. Gordon<br/>
to death. His opinion distinctly was,<br/>
that if Mrs. Gordon was willing in her<br/>
own name to commence proceedings with<br/>
a prosecution of Mr. Eyre, the committee<br/>
should undertake to collect funds and<br/>
give her such legal assistance as was in<br/>
their power. But if Mrs. Gordon was<br/>
prevented by anybody from prosecuting,<br/>
and was altogether against such a thing as<br/>
a prosecution, it would make the position<br/>
of the committee more difficult, and the<br/>
whole question would have to be re-con-<br/>
sidered. Mr. John Stuart Mill was elected<br/>
chairman, and in taking the office he said,<br/>
“I accept the post you have given me.<br/>
I do so in the full conviction that the<br/>
objects of this committee are simply to<br/>
ascertain whether there exist in this coun-<br/>
try any means for making a British func-<br/>
tionary responsible for blood unlawfully<br/>
shed, and whether that be murder or not.<br/>
I believe it to be murder. This com-<br/>
mittee ought not to rest until it obtains<br/>
from the Legislature the assurance that<br/>
men like Mr. Eyre will be made respon-<br/>
sible for these criminal actions.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE CAPTIVES IN ABYSSINIA.—-An im-<br/>
perial letter, the writer of which is his<br/>
Majesty Theodore of Abyssinia, has been<br/>
published. It is addressed to Dr. Beke, and<br/>
was brought By Mr. Martin Flad, one of<br/>
the missionaries so long detained in that<br/>
country, who has just arrived in England<br/>
with despatches for Her Majesty’s Go-<br/>
vernment. Mr. Flad quitted the Empe-<br/>
ror’s camp at Zagye, on the south-wes-<br/>
tern edge of Lake Tsana, on the 20th<br/>
of April last, at which place Mrs. Flad<br/>
and their three children, Consul Cameron,<br/>
and the remaining captives, together with<br/>
Mr. Rassam and his suite are detained<br/>
until Mr. Flad’s return. The following<br/>
is the letter:—-”In the name of the Father,<br/>
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,<br/>
one God, the King of Kings, Téoderos,<br/>
may this reach the Englishman Charles<br/>
Theodore Beke. Thou and thy wife, by<br/>
the power of God, have reached my<br/>
country. Are you well? I; God be prais-<br/>
ed, am well. What time you come?<br/>
Come by Matamma. As regards the per-<br/>
sons who were imprisoned, by the power<br/>
of God, out of friendship to the Queen<br/>
of England, I have liberated them and<br/>
given them to Mr. Hormuz Rassam. May<br/>
this give you pleasure. Written at Zagye<br/>
in the 7358th year since the creation of<br/>
the word, and the 1858th year since the<br/>
birth of Christ.” To this letter is affixed<br/>
the Emperor’s seal, bearing the device<br/>
of “the Lion of the Tribe of Judah,”<br/>
with the title, “The King of Kings,<br/>
Téoderos of Ethiopia,” and in Arabic<br/>
characters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CURIOUS MATRIMONIAL COMPLICATIONS.<br/>
—-The Queen’s eldest son-—the Prince of<br/>
Wales—-is married to a daughter of the<br/>
King of Denmark, who has been depriv-<br/>
ed of a large portion of his territories by<br/>
the King of Prussia, uncle of the husband<br/>
of the Queen’s eldest daughter, and this<br/>
mutilation of Denmark was effected nomi-<br/>
nally in the interest of the Duke of<br/>
Augustenberg, whose younger brother,<br/>
Prince Christian, has been married to<br/>
the Queen’s third daughter, the Princess<br/>
Helena. 2. The Queen’s first cousin, the<br/>
King of Hanover, has been deprived of<br/>
his kingdom by the same King of Prussia,<br/>
in whose army the Queen’s son-in-law,<br/>
the Prince of Prussia, is a commanding<br/>
officer. 3. Prince Alexander of Hesse,<br/>
who commands the Federal army raised<br/>
to oppose the King of Prussia, is brother<br/>
to Prince Louis, the husband of Princess<br/>
Alice, the Queen’s second daughter. 4.<br/>
The Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, Prince<br/>
Albert’s brother, and brother-in-law to<br/>
the Queen, holds command in the King<br/>
of Prussia’s army now invading Hanover,<br/>
which kingdom, by the way, until the<br/>
accession of Her Majesty, formed part<br/>
of the territory of the King of England.<br/>
And lastly, Prince Teck, recently mar-<br/>
ried to the Queen’s first cousin, the Prin-<br/>
cess Mary of Cambridge, holds a commis-<br/>
sion in the army of the Emperor of Aus-<br/>
tria, and may at any time have to leave<br/>
his bride for the seat of war, to fight the<br/>
King of Prussia, who has the Queen’s<br/>
son-in-law and the Queen’s brother-in-<br/>
law both officers in his army.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE EMPEROR AND THE NEEDLE GUN.<br/>
—-The latest story about the needle-gun<br/>
and the FUKOKE it is exciting in Paris is<br/>
told by the correspondent of the STAR:—-<br/>
“The Prince Imperial asked his father<br/>
to explain the difference between the<br/>
needle-gun and the ordinary firearm to<br/>
him, Wishing to give example to theore-<br/>
tical demonstration, the Emperor went<br/>
down to the court of the Tuileries, and<br/>
calling the sentinel said to him, ‘Mon<br/>
brave, load and fire to amuse these child-<br/>
ren,’ the children being the young Prince<br/>
and l’ Espinosa. Meanwhile his Majesty,<br/>
who had a needle-gun in his hand, loaded<br/>
and fired five times before the private had<br/>
fired his single shot. The soldier was<br/>
amazed. ‘Hein,’ said the Emperor, ‘it’s<br/>
quicker work with this gun than with<br/>
yours; would you like to have one?<br/>
Certainly, sire.’ ‘Then so you shall,’<br/>
answered the Emperor.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The largest income of a Bostonian is<br/>
that of Mr. Royal E. Robbins, treasurer<br/>
of the American Watch Company, who<br/>
is assessed for $377,000. In New York<br/>
the largest income assessment is that of<br/>
A. T. Stewart, the dry-goods merchant<br/>
—-$4,780,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
September 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Petchaburee Laos.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While the Laos are monopolizing<br/>
such a large share of public attention<br/>
just at this time, it might be interest-<br/>
ing to give our readers a short notice<br/>
of a small colony of the same wide<br/>
spread and numerous family located<br/>
at Petchaburee. They have an inter-<br/>
esting history handed down by tradi-<br/>
tion among themselves, the main facts<br/>
being substantially as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About 89 years ago or A. D. 1777,<br/>
and probably contemporaneous with<br/>
the American revolution, there was a<br/>
civil war in their own country to the<br/>
Northeast of Siam-proper, probably<br/>
not far from Weang-chan, and the<br/>
party to which they belonged being<br/>
defeated, they took refuge in Siam, and<br/>
were assigned a home in the plains<br/>
around Petchaburee. What were their<br/>
precise numbers when they first came,<br/>
or the nature of the political revolution<br/>
that tore them from their own land,<br/>
and planted them here cannot be very<br/>
definitely ascertained from their own<br/>
statements. Only one or two of their<br/>
original colony are still living, and<br/>
must have been very young when they<br/>
left home, and are now almost in their<br/>
second childhood, so that it is very<br/>
difficult to obtain exact information<br/>
from them. So also any information<br/>
among an uneducated ignorant people,<br/>
even though a single generation inter-<br/>
vene, must be very defective.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whether or not it was during some<br/>
of the upheavings occasioned by Phya<br/>
Tak, who conquered the Weang-chan<br/>
provinces about A. D. 1777, we are<br/>
not able to say, though it is altogether<br/>
probable that it was. We have no<br/>
doubt that the facts are in the posses-<br/>
sion of the Siamese government, and<br/>
that their archives and records would<br/>
give light on the revolution that sent<br/>
them here, and in reference to their<br/>
number at the time. We are inclined<br/>
to think that their original number<br/>
was not very large, and that their<br/>
rate of increase must have been very<br/>
great.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From all the data that we can gain,<br/>
and all the facts that we can now<br/>
gather, we think that their present<br/>
population must be more than ten<br/>
thousand, it is probably nearer twelve<br/>
than ten, counting men, women, and<br/>
children of all ages. When called out<br/>
to do Rachakan, or the king's work,<br/>
they number at a time from 500 to<br/>
800 able bodied men. Now if we<br/>
remember the rule by which they are<br/>
levied, that each man is required to<br/>
work one month out of four, and that<br/>
consequently only one fourth of their<br/>
number is on the roll at any one time,<br/>
there must be four times the above<br/>
number or somewhere between two and<br/>
three thousand working men. These<br/>
can hardly constitute more than one<br/>
fifth of the whole population including<br/>
women and superannuated men and<br/>
children, thus making the whole num-<br/>
ber somewhere between ten and fifteen<br/>
thousand souls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If incorrect either way we would<br/>
be glad to stand corrected if there are<br/>
any reliable records.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These Laos reside in villages varying<br/>
from two or three hundred, to more<br/>
than the same number of thousand<br/>
souls, in the plain beyond and around<br/>
Petchaburee, the nearest being less<br/>
than two miles and the furthest twelve<br/>
or fifteen miles from that place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The names of the principal of these<br/>
villages in their order are Tapan-yee<br/>
Hou, Weang-koy, Wang-tako, Hua-<br/>
tapan, Nawng-trong, Nawng-chik,<br/>
Tap k'ang, Dawn-sai and Kow-koi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This Laos tribe partakes to a great<br/>
degree of many of the characteristics<br/>
which belong to their whole race, be-<br/>
ing an able bodied and tolerably mor-<br/>
al and frugal race. They seem to<br/>
have much less of levity of character,<br/>
and much greater stability as a whole<br/>
in all their wide dispersions than the<br/>
Siamese, though the latter are now the<br/>
governing race and they the governed,<br/>
and to some extent an oppressed peo-<br/>
ple. Being refugees originally from<br/>
their own country to this, they are<br/>
here entirely at the clemency of H.M.<br/>
the king, who uses them as serfs of<br/>
the soil, doing much of the drudgery<br/>
not only in Petchaburee, but also in<br/>
different parts of the kingdom where-<br/>
ever their services are needed. They<br/>
are generally regarded as more reliable<br/>
in doing the king's work, where only<br/>
physical strength is concerned than<br/>
the Siamese. They have a reputation<br/>
for honesty and are a quiet and peace-<br/>
able people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of the brick, mortar, sand,<br/>
water, and other materials used in<br/>
building the palace on the mountain<br/>
were carried up by the Laos. They<br/>
have been, if not hewers, at least cut-<br/>
ters of wood and drawers of water.<br/>
But though their condition as an exil-<br/>
ed race is worse than that of the Sia-<br/>
mese, yet they have in return some<br/>
privileges that the latter do not have.<br/>
They are allowed to clear up and cul-<br/>
tivate their own fields anywhere in the<br/>
plain not yet under cultivation, without<br/>
the usual tax required from the Siam-<br/>
ese government. And notwithstanding<br/>
the hard service which is required of<br/>
them, they are improving their condi-<br/>
tion somewhat, especially under the<br/>
mild and just administration of the<br/>
Lieut. Governor. No class of the po-<br/>
pulation there express a deeper re-<br/>
gret than they do, that His Excellency<br/>
the Lieut. Governor is to be removed<br/>
from that place.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Any one acquainted at all with Sia-<br/>
mese laws and custom knows that their<br/>
great defect is the absence of any<br/>
just and binding authority. Every-<br/>
thing depends upon the ruler. If he<br/>
is a good and just man the people will<br/>
be exempt from oppression, but if not<br/>
there is nothing in the law to restrain<br/>
the oppressor of the people. And it<br/>
is a notorious fact, too, that much of<br/>
the oppression in Siam is the work of<br/>
the under-officials and petty officers,<br/>
of which those in authority know<br/>
nothing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With a man of influence such as the<br/>
Phra Palat, these petty officers are<br/>
afraid to transgress the bounds of de-<br/>
cency, but now that he is gone, the<br/>
Laos begin to feel their power. We<br/>
have already heard complaints that<br/>
now while the same amount of work<br/>
is required of them as formerly, they<br/>
have to furnish their own oxen in-<br/>
stead of having the royal ones given<br/>
them as formerly. As we have always<br/>
been interested in these people since<br/>
we first became acquainted with them<br/>
we may give some other facts in re-<br/>
ference to them in a future issue of<br/>
our paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Laos States Tributary<br/>
to Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are six Laos States lying main-<br/>
ly North of Siam-proper which are<br/>
tributary to Siam. These are Cheang-<br/>
mai, Lamphoon, Nakawn Lampang,<br/>
P'ree, Nand, and Cheang-rai. It is<br/>
not in our power to show the geogra-<br/>
phical relations of these States to each<br/>
other, nor to speak with even an aprox-<br/>
imation to accuracy of the amount<br/>
of territory they all comprise, as there<br/>
has never been the least scientifical<br/>
survey of it, and consequently there<br/>
are no maps of the country which can<br/>
at all be relied upon. We see in a<br/>
map appended to Sir John Bowring's<br/>
work on Siam that Cheangmai is a<br/>
very little west of north from Bangkok<br/>
on the Menam River; Lamphoon about<br/>
10 miles south of Cheangmai on the<br/>
same stream; Nak'awn Lampang about<br/>
60 miles S. E. of Lamphoon, on a<br/>
tributary of the Menam River; P'ree<br/>
about 40 miles S. E. of Nak'awn on<br/>
still another tributary of the Menam;<br/>
Nand about 60 miles N. N. E of P'ree<br/>
on the same stream, and Cheangrai is<br/>
put down on a branch of the Salween<br/>
60 miles N. W. of Cheangmai. Now<br/>
this map, while it may show the gen-<br/>
eral directions of those Laos states<br/>
from Bangkok, with some degree of<br/>
accuracy, must be greatly out in<br/>
regard to giving their distances from<br/>
each other and the extent of the ter-<br/>
ritory they all comprise. As there<br/>
delineated, they do not embrace more<br/>
than a quarter of the square miles that<br/>
constitute Siam-proper. But our im-<br/>
pression is, that the Laos country is<br/>
full as extensive if not more so than<br/>
Siam, and contains full as many souls.<br/>
They are weak not for the want of<br/>
numbers, but for the want of union.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For a long time before the founding<br/>
of the old city Ayuthia, in A. D.<br/>
1351, they were independent kingdoms.<br/>
They lost their independence soon<br/>
after that time in consequence of be-<br/>
ing situated between more powerful<br/>
kingdoms that were at war with each<br/>
other. Those kingdoms were Burmah,<br/>
Pegu, and Siam. Had they enjoyed<br/>
the spirit of union in a combined con-<br/>
federacy, doubtless they could have<br/>
successfully resisted the invasions of<br/>
their country from the west and<br/>
south and S. E. But no such union<br/>
seems to have ever blessed them, and<br/>
consequently they became the prey of<br/>
their powerful neighbors for hundreds<br/>
of years, being sometimes all brought<br/>
into subjection to Burmah, sometimes<br/>
to Pegu, sometimes to Siam and some-<br/>
times, we believe, were divided among<br/>
the three dominant nations. They had<br/>
little or no rest and consequently no<br/>
prosperity until Siam became strong<br/>
enough to bring them all over to her-<br/>
self and hold them firmly as her tri-<br/>
butaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This appears to have been fully<br/>
accomplished at the beginning of the<br/>
reign of Somdetcb Racha P'ra P'oot's<br/>
Yawt Fa, the grand father of his pre-<br/>
sent Majesty the king of Siam. He<br/>
was the first monarch of the present<br/>
flourishing dynasty, and began to reign<br/>
A. D. 1782, which was only fifteen<br/>
years after the fall of the old capital<br/>
Ayuthia under a siege of the Burman<br/>
army three years. Many of the Sia-<br/>
mese, it is said, were at that time car-<br/>
ried captives to Burmah and most of<br/>
the remainder of the citizens fled to<br/>
the south. Consequently the Laos<br/>
States became again tributary to Bur-<br/>
mah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was but a short time, however,<br/>
before the scattered forces of the Sia-<br/>
mese were rallied and reorganized<br/>
under the leader-ship of a Chino-Sia-<br/>
mese general named Phya Tak Sin.<br/>
He must have been a man of extra-<br/>
ordinary abilities. Siamese History<br/>
says, that with a small force of only a<br/>
few thousand men he routed the Bur-<br/>
man troops that were still quartered<br/>
at the old city and other places, built<br/>
a walled city at Ton-booree, now the<br/>
site of H. R. H. Krom Hluang Wong-<br/>
sa's palace, and reigned as king under<br/>
the title Phya Tak Sin. In the mean<br/>
time he conquered Korat, Cambodia,<br/>
Weang-chan and virtually recovered<br/>
all the tributary states of the Laos.<br/>
He was seized with insanity A. D.<br/>
1780—-thought himself to be worthy<br/>
of adoration as a Buddh-—made most<br/>
oppressive exactions from the rich<br/>
and treated his officials with great<br/>
severity. A sedition was the conse-<br/>
quence. The populace broke into his<br/>
palace intending to assassinate him.<br/>
But he escaped and fled to a temple,<br/>
was immediately admitted into the<br/>
priesthood, and being clothed with<br/>
the sacred yellow robes, was effectually<br/>
shielded from the power of the mob.<br/>
But on the return of Phya Chakree<br/>
from the war against the Anamese the<br/>
next year, he ordered Phya Tak Sin<br/>
to be dragged from the temple and<br/>
executed, when he himself assumed<br/>
the reins of government and reigned<br/>
under the title Somdetcb Rscha P'ra<br/>
P'oot'a Yawt Fa. The walled city<br/>
which Phya Tak Sin had made, not<br/>
suiting the new king, he built a new<br/>
one on the opposite side of the river.<br/>
This was done quite early in his reign,<br/>
and the brick walls forming an irregu-<br/>
lar circle of about six miles being 15<br/>
feet high and 15 feet thick are still<br/>
standing very much as they were at<br/>
the beginning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From some government documents,<br/>
which we have lately seen, it appears<br/>
that those Laos States above named<br/>
have been settled and peaceful in their<br/>
dependency on Siam ever since the<br/>
beginning of this dynasty, which is<br/>
now 84 years. The most northern of<br/>
those States bounds on another Laos<br/>
State called Cheang-tung which be-<br/>
longs to Burmah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If we are correctly informed, five<br/>
of the principal Laos States above<br/>
named are in a certain sense indepen-<br/>
dent of each other, each being ruled<br/>
by its own hereditary Prince; but<br/>
that Cheang-rai is entirely dependent<br/>
on Cheang-mai and has been so from<br/>
1782. The king of Cheang-mai seems<br/>
to stand as Lord Paramount to all the<br/>
five states, while he himself is depen-<br/>
dent on His Majesty the king of Siam<br/>
as his own Suzerain.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Needle Gun.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The article which we copied last<br/>
week from one of our Singapore Ex-<br/>
changes, on the Origins and History<br/>
of the Needle-Gun, would seem to<br/>
be in several particulars quite incor-<br/>
rect. From a very reliable source we<br/>
have since learned, that it is a great<br/>
mistake that that great invention is<br/>
due to an Englishman in Canada and<br/>
that it is a new thing. Our inform-<br/>
ant, who is remarkably well posted in<br/>
European affairs, affirms that the<br/>
needle-gun was first invented by a<br/>
German named Herr Dreyse at Soem-<br/>
merda in Germany in the year 1832,<br/>
that from that time to 1844they<br/>
were chiefly used as fowling pieces:<br/>
that in 1844 the Prussian government<br/>
made a trial of the needle-gun in-<br/>
stead of the percussion gun; that the<br/>
11th Regiment of Infantry stationed<br/>
at Glatz were the first Prussian sol-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
diers who tried them as an arm of<br/>
war, and finding them quite superior<br/>
to every other for infantry and caval-<br/>
ry purposes, the Prussian govern-<br/>
ment had great numbers of them<br/>
made between the years of 1846 and<br/>
1852, so that the infantry and cav-<br/>
alry troops were supplied with them<br/>
from that time onward to the begin-<br/>
ning of the present war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And with regard to the insinuation<br/>
that Count Bismarck has been the<br/>
chief man in having the needle-guns<br/>
made and introduced into the Prus-<br/>
sian army, our informant would have<br/>
us understand that the Count had<br/>
very little to do with that matter.<br/>
As proof of this he states that Count<br/>
Bismarck was not in position to exert<br/>
such an influence until since 1862;<br/>
because for several years up to 1860<br/>
he was Ambassador for the Prussian<br/>
government at St. Petersburg, was<br/>
Prus. plenipotentiary at Paris in 1861<br/>
and was not called to the Premier-ship<br/>
until the year 1862.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now if the above statement be a<br/>
correct one (and we see not how to<br/>
discredit it) it is certainly very<br/>
strange that the Prussians appear to<br/>
have made little or no use of their<br/>
needle-guns in their late war with<br/>
Denmark, and that their neighbors<br/>
the Austrians and other German<br/>
States together with France and Eng-<br/>
land seem not to have heard of their<br/>
superiority over the guns that were<br/>
commonly used by infantry and cav-<br/>
alry troops, and consequently had<br/>
taken no effective measures to furnish<br/>
their own troops with that powerful<br/>
arm. It may indeed be replied that<br/>
those governments had heard much<br/>
in praise of the needle-gun but did<br/>
not credit the reports, and hence did<br/>
nothing to avail themselves of the im-<br/>
provement. But this explanation<br/>
would still leave the matter in a great<br/>
fog, for how is it that all those gov-<br/>
ernments should thus show themselves<br/>
so much more slow to catch a new<br/>
and bright idea than the Prussians?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We cannot but suspect that the<br/>
needle-guns as they were when<br/>
Count Bismarck came into power<br/>
as Premier of Prussia were too im-<br/>
perfect to command much confidence<br/>
even in the Prussian government, and<br/>
that through his keen sightedness and<br/>
great power of accomplishment the<br/>
invention has been so much im-<br/>
proved as to justify the greatest confi-<br/>
dence as an arm of war, and that<br/>
consequently the Prussian soldiers<br/>
were fully armed with them, as it<br/>
were under disguise, and hence the<br/>
wonderful power of the Prussians a-<br/>
gainst the Austrians in their late<br/>
great battles, and the astonishing ce-<br/>
lerity with which they have closed<br/>
one of the greatest campaigns Eu-<br/>
rope has ever witnessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If this exposition of the mystery be<br/>
in the main correct, Count Bismarck<br/>
will still have a good claim to the name<br/>
of introducing a change in modern<br/>
warfare that will greatly abridge the<br/>
term of all future wars among civilized<br/>
nations. It seems to us that if wars<br/>
must come, it is far better to have a<br/>
few short and decisive battles at the<br/>
outset like the Prussians and Austrians,<br/>
though they be with terrible destruc-<br/>
tion of life, than to have them long<br/>
protracted with scores of indecisive<br/>
battles, less bloody when individually<br/>
considered, but more so collectively,<br/>
and with vastly more destruction of<br/>
national resources, private fortunes, and<br/>
public morals. How much better is it<br/>
that the Prusso-Austrian war should<br/>
be settled quickly though it was with<br/>
tremendous slaughter, than that it<br/>
should have proceeded slowly and in-<br/>
volved as it consequently would have<br/>
done the whole of Europe, and extended<br/>
through four long years of destruction<br/>
as the Am. civil war did. Much as our<br/>
sympathy has been against Count Bis-<br/>
marck for his apparent love of war, and<br/>
inordinate love of power, we frankly<br/>
confess that we now heartily award<br/>
him our praise for his keen foresight<br/>
into the advantages of the needle-gun<br/>
and the sound judgment and good<br/>
sense he exercised in having the Prus-<br/>
sian troops so fully armed with that<br/>
powerful abridger of carnal warfare.<br/>
It appears that he had the greatest<br/>
confidence that such would be the re-<br/>
sult, if the war should break out, and<br/>
often spoke of it while concealing the<br/>
means by which it would be accomp-<br/>
lished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have recently heard that the<br/>
needle-gun was introduced into the<br/>
Union army of the U. S. in the late<br/>
civil war, and that a few regiments<br/>
were armed with it, and demonstrated<br/>
its great superiority over all other small<br/>
arms as early as 1862. But why the<br/>
improvement did not come into general<br/>
use in the Union Army after that, is to<br/>
us as great a mystery as any we have<br/>
above noted concerning the stupidity<br/>
of European powers in regard to the<br/>
needle-gun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that since then there has<br/>
been another great improvement made<br/>
by some American in the needle-gun<br/>
by which it can discharge 16 shots<br/>
every minute.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We can scarcely go out in any di-<br/>
rection without the afflicting sight of<br/>
large amounts of property, both pub-<br/>
lic and private, rapidly going to ruin<br/>
for the want of proper care. In pas-<br/>
sing a government dockyard a few mor-<br/>
nings since we could not but be op-<br/>
pressed with the view of sailing ves-<br/>
sels, steamboats, dredging machines,<br/>
engine boilers etc. laid up, but too<br/>
generally very imperfectly covered<br/>
and consequently cracking open, rot-<br/>
ting, and rusting away as though<br/>
there was not money enough in the<br/>
kingdom to keep them well housed,<br/>
in good repair and in some profitable<br/>
use. It looks as if they had been<br/>
ridden as hobbies until they have lost<br/>
nearly all their power to interest their<br/>
owners, and that now some new play<br/>
things are engaging their attention.<br/>
We do not say that such is their<br/>
childishness, but only that such views<br/>
as we have of them has too much of<br/>
that appearance for a people that<br/>
would rise in power and true great-<br/>
ness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our morning walk to day we<br/>
saw heaps of iron frames for bridges,<br/>
and large iron cylinders once neatly<br/>
polished but now all exposed to rain<br/>
and rusting out in utter uselessness.<br/>
These iron works must have cost the<br/>
government large sums of money to<br/>
import from Europe. We have seen<br/>
these costly goods lying where they<br/>
now are a long time. Why is it that<br/>
they cannot at the least be put under<br/>
some suitable shed? What a pity it<br/>
is that iron bridges, so much needed<br/>
in Bangkok, procured at so much<br/>
expense, and all prepared for use, can-<br/>
not be put into service at once? If<br/>
set up and well painted they certainly<br/>
would last longer than they will as<br/>
they now are.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. T. Appleing, an Exhibiter of<br/>
Dissolving Views, and of whose ac-<br/>
ceptable performances at Penang we<br/>
have had reports in our Penang ex-<br/>
changes for May last, arrived here on<br/>
the 4th inst.—-coming from Penang<br/>
overland. He has been three months and<br/>
seventeen days making the passage, spen-<br/>
ding some time in exhibiting his views<br/>
on a small scale in several of the prin-<br/>
cipal towns through which he passed,<br/>
and much more in waiting the slow<br/>
movements of the different Rajah's to<br/>
whom he had letters requesting facili-<br/>
ties for travelling from one to the other.<br/>
With the exception of their tardiness<br/>
Mr. A. brings good reports from them<br/>
all as having been truly kind to him,<br/>
not willing even to take any pay for his<br/>
board, or for use of elephants or escorts.<br/>
And he would hereby return thanks<br/>
to them all for their gentlemanly treat-<br/>
ment of him. He left Penang in a small<br/>
sail boat and stopped at Quedah.<br/>
From Quedah he went to Tonga, thence<br/>
to Ponga, and thence to Kopa. Here<br/>
he left the boat and traveled elephant-<br/>
back across the Peninsula to Bandan,<br/>
thence to Chiya, and thence to Chum-<br/>
pon. From the latter place he came<br/>
in a small sailing boat to Taschoen and<br/>
finally to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He reports that large portions of<br/>
the country through which he passed<br/>
in this journey are yet but a “howling<br/>
wilderness”, that the mountain passes<br/>
are highly romantic and exciting, that<br/>
human beings seemed quite sparse,<br/>
the soil generally excellent, and that<br/>
there is no want of any physical element<br/>
to make the country a delightful one<br/>
under a thorough Christian govern-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Appleing expects to remain in<br/>
town several weeks during which time<br/>
he hopes to have many exhibitions of<br/>
his Dissolving Views.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The king of Cheangmai took a Steam<br/>
Boat excursion on Monday the 3d inst.<br/>
on board the Rapidity belonging to<br/>
Phya Sooriwongs Weiyawat and return-<br/>
ed the same day. It was, we learn, his<br/>
intention to go down the Gulf some<br/>
distance But finding himself a poorer<br/>
seaman than he anticipated, and that<br/>
old Neptune was dreadfully disgusting<br/>
in his influences on himself and familly,<br/>
he turned back at the anchorage and<br/>
hastened to quieter times. About 100<br/>
Laos accompanied the king including<br/>
the royal familly, and Mr. J. G. Cox<br/>
English secretary to the prince. His<br/>
E. Phya Sooriwongs Weiyawat went<br/>
as Captain of his own Boat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE WEATHER appears to be as<br/>
good as could be wished for in regard<br/>
to the next rice crop. Reports from<br/>
all quarters concerning it are the most<br/>
favorable. It is probable that the<br/>
tedious work of transplanting all<br/>
the rice fields is now done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We hear, too, that the price of rice<br/>
has fallen a little within a few days,<br/>
which is another evidence that rice<br/>
dealers are expecting an abundant<br/>
crop.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
HEALTH—-It appears to be a time<br/>
of usual health among the native citi-<br/>
zens of Bangkok; but there is at pre-<br/>
sent an unusual number of the Foreign<br/>
residents reported as being on the in-<br/>
valid list. Some are at the Sanitarium<br/>
at Anghin and report well of the place<br/>
as a health-recruiting station.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passenger per British steamer<br/>
“Seewoon” which sailed for Singa-<br/>
pore on the 5th inst. Captain Shan-<br/>
non.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
News Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the "Overland Trade Report"<br/>
of July 29th we glean the following<br/>
items.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. B. M. Gunboats Osprey and<br/>
Opossum of 3 gun each, struck a<br/>
severe blow at piracy on the 20th<br/>
July in Sa-ma bay in the island of<br/>
Hainan, at this place they fell in with<br/>
and captured after two hours fighting,<br/>
a fleet consisting of 22 regular pirati-<br/>
cal junks carrying 240 guns. The<br/>
junks were all burned notwithstanding<br/>
the fact that some of them contained<br/>
opium and other valuable cargo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
COMMERCIAL BANK—-On the suspen-<br/>
sion of the the Bank, the assets had<br/>
been placed in the Hong Kong and<br/>
Shanghai Bank, in the name of the<br/>
Manager of the Commercial Bank,<br/>
with the understanding that the bank<br/>
was not to make use of any of the<br/>
money, nor the creditors institute pro-<br/>
ceedings against the Bank, until fur-<br/>
ther information arrived from London.<br/>
But some of the creditors instituted<br/>
proceedings against the Bank, and<br/>
when the adverse judgment of the Act-<br/>
ing Chief Justice was pronounced on the<br/>
eve of the departure of the mail, the<br/>
manager of the Commercial Bank<br/>
availed himself of the power so strange-<br/>
ly left in his hands, and transmitted<br/>
every dollar of the money belonging<br/>
to the Bank home to England, endos-<br/>
ing all the bills to the official Liquid-<br/>
ator in London, although the name of<br/>
that officer was still unknown.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AGRA AND MASTERMAN'S BANK—-en-<br/>
gaged in arranging its affairs conse-<br/>
quent on its suspension, sent to the<br/>
Hongkong and Shanghai Bank $50,000<br/>
worth of notes on that bank for pay-<br/>
ment. The notes however were no<br/>
sooner in the custody of the local Bank<br/>
than it refused either to pay or return<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The manager of the Agra Bank at<br/>
once summoned the manager of the<br/>
Hongkong Bank to the Police court<br/>
for the illegal detention of his pro-<br/>
perty. The manager at first offered<br/>
to return the notes to the Agra Bank<br/>
endorsed with an explanation of the<br/>
circumstances under which they had<br/>
been refused payment, but this was<br/>
naturally declined. Then they were<br/>
offered on condition that their numbers<br/>
should be taken in presence of a notary<br/>
public. This also was declined, and<br/>
finally in the morning when the case<br/>
was appointed to come on at the police<br/>
court, the local Bank offered to pay<br/>
the notes in dollars. This offer came<br/>
at so late an hour that there was no<br/>
time to stop the case, which proceeded<br/>
and was dismissed by the magistrate<br/>
on the ground that he had no jurisdic-<br/>
tion. On the following day however,<br/>
the notes were returned to the Agra<br/>
Bank unconditionally.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEW PIRACY COURT—-is to be<br/>
called "the High Court of Hongkong<br/>
for the suppression of Piracy," and is<br/>
to consist of the Chief Justice, the<br/>
Admiral of the station, the senior<br/>
naval officer, the Judge of the court<br/>
of Summary Jurisdiction and two<br/>
unofficial members appointed by the<br/>
Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To be brought within the jurisdic-<br/>
tion of the new Court the acts of piracy<br/>
must have been committed "On the<br/>
High Seas, or waters where the su-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
preme Court of this Colony, or the<br/>
Court to be hereby constituted hath,<br/>
or here after may by Imperial enact-<br/>
ment, Order in Council, Treaty or<br/>
otherwise, aquire any jurisdiction,<br/>
other than within the harbor of Vic-<br/>
tory in this Colony."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Under the new ordinance "the act<br/>
of cruising without a commission and<br/>
with intent to rob," will bring a junk<br/>
under the operation of the law, so that<br/>
it is no longer necessary that a pirate<br/>
should be caught red handed in order<br/>
to be amendable to punishment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE HARBORS AND COASTS ORDINANCE<br/>
is directed to the regulation of all<br/>
junks trading with this harbor, on the<br/>
same principles which govern the re-<br/>
gulation of all other Mercantile traffic.<br/>
Fines varying from $20 to $200, im-<br/>
prisonment from one to twelve months<br/>
and the forfeiture of the junk, are<br/>
among the penilties that can be inflict-<br/>
ed under this ordinance. This is en-<br/>
ough to give the partners in the pirate<br/>
firms in Hongkong a sun stroke, or<br/>
the Hongkong fever on the spot
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JAPAN.—The Belgian Treaty will<br/>
be concluded in a few days. An Ita-<br/>
lian frigate—the Magenta has arrived<br/>
in the harbor, the Captain of which is<br/>
accredited with powers from Victor<br/>
Emanuel to enter into treaty with<br/>
Japan.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death of Mrs Carlyle.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wife of Mr. Thomas Carlyle, the<br/>
eminent English author, died on the 24th<br/>
April, under very peculiar circumstances.<br/>
She was taking her usual drive in Hyde<br/>
Park, London, when her little favourite<br/>
dog, which was running beside the<br/>
brougham, was run over by a carriage.<br/>
She was greatly alarmed, though the dog<br/>
was not seriously hurt. She lifted the<br/>
dog into the carriage, and the man drove<br/>
on. Not receiving any call or direction<br/>
from his mistress, as was usual, he stop-<br/>
ped the carriage, and discovered her, as<br/>
he thought, in a fit or ill, and drove to<br/>
St. George's Hospital. When there, it<br/>
was discovered that she must have been<br/>
dead for some time. Mrs. Carlyle's<br/>
health had been for several months fee-<br/>
ble, but not in a state to excite anxiety<br/>
or alarm. Mr. Carlyle was still in Scot-<br/>
land. Mrs. Carlyle was the daughter-of<br/>
Dr. Welch, of Haddington, and a lineal<br/>
descendant of John Knox.—PRESBYTER-<br/>
IAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Death of Mrs. Thomas
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Carlyle is thus alluded to by the Lon-<br/>
don correspondent of THE ROUND TA-<br/>
BLE:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The death of Mrs. Carlyle has strick-<br/>
en a wide circle with sorrow. She was<br/>
with those who knew her as marked a<br/>
character in her way as her husband in<br/>
his. Humorous, cultivated, witty, kind-<br/>
ly, she suggested a chapter on the domes-<br/>
tic relations of men of genius in contrast<br/>
with the many sad ones. When Carlyle<br/>
heard of his wife's death, he was in Scot-<br/>
land. Friends tried hard to dissuade him<br/>
from coming to London, as it was known<br/>
that his wife's body was to be taken for<br/>
burial to her birth-place, Haddington,<br/>
not far from Ecclefechan, where Mr.<br/>
Carlyle was staying. But the old man<br/>
persisted in taking the long journey both<br/>
ways, and so came down with Dr. Carl-<br/>
yle, and returned again to Scotland with<br/>
the corpse. The funeral took place on<br/>
Thursday. The remains were laid with-<br/>
in the choir of the ruined cathedral at<br/>
Haddington, in the same grave as her<br/>
father, Dr. Welsh. According to the<br/>
Quaker-like custom of the Scottish<br/>
Church, there was no ceremony or ser-<br/>
vice over the grave. But Mr. Carlyle,<br/>
much bowed with suffering, came forward<br/>
and threw a single handful of dust upon<br/>
the lowered coffin. There is much ap-<br/>
prehension among Mr. Carlyle's friends<br/>
as to the effect of this blow upon him."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To Remove Dust from the
Eye.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Take firmly hold of the upper lid, and,<br/>
drawing it forward, press the under lid<br/>
up so as to wash the ball of the eye with<br/>
the under lash. The relief is instant and<br/>
entire.-—Boston Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Different Styles.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no model style. What is pleas-<br/>
ing in the diction of one author disgusts<br/>
us in a copyist. Every writer is his own<br/>
standard. The tread of Johnson's style is<br/>
heavy and sonorous, resembling that of an<br/>
elephant or a mail-clad warrior. He is<br/>
fond of leveling an obstacle, by a polysyl-<br/>
labic battering-ram. Burke's words are<br/>
continually practicing the broad-sword<br/>
exercise, and sweeping down adversaries<br/>
at every stroke. Addison draws up his<br/>
infantry in orderly array, and marches<br/>
through sentence after sentence without<br/>
having his ranks disordered or his line<br/>
broken. Luther's words are "half battle;"<br/>
his "uniting idiomatic phrases seem to<br/>
cleave into the very secret of the matter."<br/>
Gibbon's legions are heavily armed, and<br/>
march with precision and dignity to the<br/>
music of their own tramp. They are splen-<br/>
didly equipped; but a nice eye can discern<br/>
a little rust beneath their fine apparel.<br/>
Macaulay, brisk, keen, lively, and ener-<br/>
getic, runs his thoughts rapidly through<br/>
his sentence, and kicks out of the way<br/>
every word that obstructs his passage.<br/>
He reins in his steed only when he has<br/>
reached his goal, and then does it with<br/>
such celerity that he is nearly thrown<br/>
backwards by the suddenness of his stop-<br/>
page. Jeffrey is a fine lance, with a sort<br/>
of Arab swiftness in his movements, and<br/>
runs an iron-clad horseman through the<br/>
eye before he has had time to close his<br/>
helmet. Talfourd's forces are orderly and<br/>
disciplined, and march to the music of the<br/>
Dorian flute. Those of Keats keep time<br/>
to the tones of the pipe Phoebus. Willis'<br/>
words are often tipsy with champagne of<br/>
the fancy: but even when they reel and<br/>
stagger they keep the line of grace and<br/>
beauty. Webster's words are thunderbolts,<br/>
which sometimes miss the Titan at whom<br/>
they are hurled, but always leave enduring<br/>
marks were they strike. Words are not,<br/>
when used by a master, the mere dress of<br/>
thought. They are, as Wadsworth<br/>
happily said, the incarnation of thought.<br/>
A thought. A thought embodied and<br/>
embrained in fit words, walks the earth a<br/>
living being.-—E. P. WHIPPLE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The New Proposition.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is the text of the Joint<br/>
Resolution adopted by the Senate last<br/>
week. It will be seen that it materially<br/>
modifies the Report of the Reconstruction<br/>
Committee, especially in the 3d Section,<br/>
and it doubtless is the most satisfactory<br/>
amendment which there is any prospect of<br/>
getting adopted. It passed the Senate by<br/>
just a threefourthe majority—a handsome<br/>
margin over the desired two-thirds in the<br/>
contingency of a Presidential veto.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}endment to the Constitution of the<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}United States passed by the Senate<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}and House of Representatives of the<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}United States of America in Congress<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}assembled, two-thirds of both Houses<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}concurring.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
A Joint Resolution proposing an am-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the following article be proposed<br/>
to the Legislatures of the several States as<br/>
an amendment to the Constitution of the<br/>
United States, which, when, ratified by<br/>
three-fourths of said Legislatures shall be<br/>
valid as part of the Constitution.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ARTICLE—Sec. 1. All persons born or<br/>
naturalized in the United States, and sub-<br/>
ject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens<br/>
of the United States and of the State<br/>
wherein they reside. No State shall make<br/>
or enforce any laws which shall abridge the<br/>
privileges or immunities of citizens of the<br/>
United States, nor shall any State deprive<br/>
any person of life, liberty or property<br/>
without due process of law, nor deny to<br/>
any person within its jurisdiction the<br/>
equal protection of the laws.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sec. 2. Representatives shall be ap-<br/>
portioned among the several States accor-<br/>
ding to their respective numbers, counting<br/>
the whole number of persons in each State,<br/>
excluding Indians not taxed, but whenever<br/>
the right to vote at any election for elec-<br/>
tors of President and Vice President of<br/>
the United States, Representatives in<br/>
Congress, Executive and Judicial officers,<br/>
or the members of the Legislature thereof,<br/>
is denied to any of the male citizens being<br/>
twenty-one years of age, and citizens of<br/>
the United States, or in any way abridged,<br/>
except for participation in the rebellion<br/>
or other crime, the basis of representation<br/>
therein shall be reduced in the proportion<br/>
which the number of such male citizens<br/>
shall bear to the whole number of male<br/>
citizens twenty-one years of age in such<br/>
State.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sec. 3. No person shall be Senator or<br/>
Representative in Congress, or Elector of<br/>
President and Vice President, or hold any<br/>
office, civil or military, within the United<br/>
States, or under any State, who, having<br/>
taken an oath as a member of Congress, or<br/>
as an officer of the United States, or as a<br/>
member of any State Legislature, or as an<br/>
Executive or Judicial officer of any State,<br/>
to support the Constitution of the United<br/>
States, shall have engaged in insurrection<br/>
or rebellion against the same, or given aid<br/>
or comfort to the enemies thereof; but<br/>
Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of<br/>
each house, remove such disability.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sec. 4. The validity of the public debt<br/>
of the United States, authorized by law<br/>
including debts incurred for the payment<br/>
of pensions and bounties for services in<br/>
suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall<br/>
not be questioned, but neither the United<br/>
States nor any State shall assume or pay<br/>
any debt incurred in aid of insurrection<br/>
or rebellion against the United States, or<br/>
any claim for loss or emancipation of any<br/>
slave, but all such debts, obligations and<br/>
claims shall be held illegal and void.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Different Species
of Elephants.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Livingstone in his last work on Af-<br/>
rica says:-—A considerable difference is<br/>
observed between African and Asiatic<br/>
elephants. Of the latter, only the males<br/>
have tusks, and this not invariably; while<br/>
in the former, they are found both in<br/>
males and females. The African male<br/>
elephant, moreover, is distinguished by<br/>
the convex shape of his forehead, and<br/>
the enormous size of his ears, resembling<br/>
those found upon Roman coins. Another<br/>
very remarkable peculiarity is, that in<br/>
the part of the jaw corresponding with<br/>
the place in which the wisdom tooth ap-<br/>
pears in man, there is a succession of new<br/>
teeth, each of which, as it comes up,<br/>
pushes "the others along, and out at the<br/>
front end of the jaws, thus keeping the<br/>
molars sound by renewal, till the animal<br/>
attains a very great age." Locality, it<br/>
appears, very much affects the character<br/>
of the tusks: those of animals from<br/>
marshy districts being the largest,<br/>
those from dry districts the densest and<br/>
heaviest. In the great marshes on the<br/>
Shire, near the Ruo, there is one called<br/>
the Elephant Marsh, in which a vast num-<br/>
ber of these animals are found; eight<br/>
hundred were counted in one herd. But<br/>
elephants must soon disappear from the<br/>
country, as thirty thousand are said to be<br/>
annually killed for the sake of their tusks.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Maine Colony for Palestine.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A vessel will sail from Jonesport, Maine,<br/>
for Jaffa, by the way of Malta, about the<br/>
middle of next July, loaded with lumber<br/>
and other building materials, furniture,<br/>
agricultural implements, and about twen-<br/>
tyfive or thirty families, numbering in all<br/>
about one hundred and twenty persons.<br/>
Their new home is near Jaffa (the ancient<br/>
Joppa.) It is situated in the midst of<br/>
orange groves, lemon groves, pomegranate<br/>
groves, fig trees, grape vines, date trees,<br/>
and almost every description of Oriental<br/>
fruit and shade trees.—-PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mortality in the Army.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The statistical tables prepared at the<br/>
war office show that of the: 2,154,311<br/>
men in the service during the war, 280,-<br/>
420 died—-184,381 of disease, 96,089 in<br/>
battle or of wounds. The officers con-<br/>
stituted about one-twenty-fifth of the<br/>
army, but one officer died in battle or of<br/>
wounds to every eighteen enlisted men,<br/>
showing greater exposure of officers than<br/>
of men in battle; while a less proportion<br/>
in officers than of men died of disease,<br/>
doubtless because they were better shel-<br/>
tered and fed than the rank and file.<br/>
The mortality from disease among the<br/>
colored troops was extraordinary. As<br/>
they were in a climate to which they<br/>
were accustomed, and were at least as<br/>
well cared for as when slaves, it was sup-<br/>
posed that camp life would not unfavor-<br/>
ably affect them. But while of the 180,-<br/>
000 negroes enlisted during the war,<br/>
2,997 died in battle or of wounds, 26,301<br/>
died of disease, or nearly one-seventh of<br/>
the whole number. Perhaps this great<br/>
mortality is to be attributed in part to<br/>
their inaction in camp, for a very small<br/>
proportion of the whole number were<br/>
ever called into active service, and these<br/>
on only a few widely separated occasions.<br/>
It also appears that more than half the<br/>
colored troops were constantly on the<br/>
sick list.—-These singular facts are yet to<br/>
be accounted for. Physicians say that<br/>
one reason for them is the lower mental<br/>
and moral tone of the black soldier, as<br/>
compared with the white.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mortality from battle ranged<br/>
highest in the northern states. The pro-<br/>
portion of deaths from battle to each<br/>
thousand soldiers was in the New Eng-<br/>
land states, 44.75 ; in the middle states,<br/>
31.79 ; in the western states, 36.81 ; and<br/>
in the border states, 25.32. If those<br/>
figures do not accurately measure the<br/>
comparative courage of the men of dif-<br/>
ferent sections, they do at least show that<br/>
the New Englanders are not inferior to<br/>
any other in fighting qualities.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Words in Use.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The peasants of England have not<br/>
more than 300 words in their vocabulary.<br/>
The ancient sages of Egypt, so far as we<br/>
know from their hieroglyphic inscrip-<br/>
tions, used but 685 words. A well edu-<br/>
cated person in England seldom uses<br/>
more than 3,000 or 4,000 words in actu-<br/>
al conversation. Accurate thinkers and<br/>
close reasoners, who avoid general and<br/>
vague expressions and choose the words<br/>
that exactly fit their meaning, employ a<br/>
large stock, and eloquent speakers may<br/>
rise to the command of 10,000. Shake-<br/>
speare, who probably displayed a greater<br/>
variety of expression than any other<br/>
writer in any language, produced all his<br/>
plays with about 15,000 words. Milton's<br/>
works employ 8,000 words ; and the Old<br/>
Tes tament has but 5,642.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LAST year 365,000,000 eggs were im-<br/>
ported from the Continent and from<br/>
Ireland into Great Britain. During the<br/>
current year the number imported has<br/>
been daily on the increase. In May last<br/>
it exceeded 56,000,000. Estimating the<br/>
value of imported eggs at 6s. per 120,<br/>
those imported in 1865 must have sold<br/>
for upwards of three millions sterling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE tax upon dogs, or upon dogs'<br/>
friends for keeping them, is returned in<br/>
the financial accounts for the year ending<br/>
with March, 1866, as amounting in Great<br/>
Britain to £219,313, an increase of £8,<br/>
984 over the previous year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCESS HELENA'S WEDDING PRE-<br/>
SENT.-—The list of costly gifts presented<br/>
to the Princess by the Queen, the other<br/>
members of the Royal Family, the Bride-<br/>
groom, and his relatives, is so lengthy<br/>
that it occupies two-thirds of a column<br/>
in THE TIMES. The Tumongong of<br/>
Johore presented her Royal Highness<br/>
with a magnificent enamel antique neck-<br/>
lace, richly set with precious stones.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PIE-PLANT.—-A horticulturist adver-<br/>
tised that he would supply all sorts of<br/>
trees and plants, especially "pie plants<br/>
of "all kinds." A gentleman thereupon<br/>
sent him an order for "one package of<br/>
of custard-pie seed, and a dozen of<br/>
mince-pie plants." The gardener promp-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tly filled the order by sending him four<br/>
goose eggs and a small dog.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The official STAATS-ANZEIGER of Ber-<br/>
lin says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We are authorised to declare that<br/>
during the recent fighting in Bohemia<br/>
not a single Prussian cannon has been<br/>
captured by the enemy. If, therefore, a<br/>
piece of Prussian artillery has recently<br/>
been drawn through the streets of V ein-<br/>
na, as asserted by some journals, it can<br/>
only be the field-piece presented to the<br/>
Emperor by the King of Prussia at the<br/>
time of their alliance."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gov. ORR, of South Carolina, has ex-<br/>
pressed his opinion respecting the teach-<br/>
ing of freed people, that it is good for<br/>
them and good for the State. He says<br/>
the teachers shall be protected in their<br/>
duties, and that the prejudice against<br/>
them and their occupation is disappear-<br/>
ing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NUMBER of Americans visiting<br/>
Europe is shown by the amount of pass-<br/>
ports issued by the Department of State<br/>
to be largely increasing. More have<br/>
been issued in 1866 than in any previous<br/>
year, sometimes as many as 40 in a single<br/>
day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. GEORGE PEABODY, who is now<br/>
sojourning with his friends in Essex<br/>
country, Mass., has been notified to make<br/>
a return of his income since September,<br/>
1862, for the purpose of taxation under<br/>
the revenue laws of the United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. SCOTT died at West Point on<br/>
the 29th ult. His funeral was attended<br/>
by leading officers of the army and dis-<br/>
tinguished officials from the Capital. The<br/>
events of the late war have overshadowed<br/>
those that made him famous, but he will<br/>
find his place in history as one of the<br/>
most distinguished of Americans.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is a pump near Pittsburgh<br/>
which produces ten thousand gallons of<br/>
milk in one year. The milkmen stop<br/>
there on their way to the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEW—YORK Board of Health<br/>
have decided that sprinkling the streets<br/>
is injurious to the public health. It is<br/>
said that by dampening the dust a nuis-<br/>
ance is evolved by the heat of the sun,<br/>
which is poisonous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A LATE Richmond (Ind.) paper says<br/>
that the latest style of bonnets received<br/>
there from the East consists of two rye<br/>
straws, tied together with a blue ribbon<br/>
on the top of the head, and red tassels<br/>
suspended at each of the four ends of<br/>
the straws. It is a "love of a bonnet;"<br/>
price only $10.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_3_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Sunday is the core of our civiliza-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Ambition travels on a road too nar-<br/>
row for friendship, too steep for safety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—An exchange says: “Lovers, like<br/>
armies, generally get along well enough<br/>
till they are engaged.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Many run about after happiness,<br/>
like an absent minded man hunting for<br/>
his hat while it is on his head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The best way to meet just, but ad-<br/>
verse comments upon character is, not to<br/>
fight the comments, but to mend the<br/>
character.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The facility of genius is the power<br/>
of lighting its own fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-An Irishman observing a dandy tak-<br/>
ing his usual strut in Broadway, stepped<br/>
up to him and inquired, “How much<br/>
rent do you ask for those houses?”—-<br/>
“What do you ask me that for?”—<br/>
“Faith, and I thought the whole street<br/>
belonged to ye.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-It is not TALKING, but WALKING with<br/>
God, that MARKS a man a Christian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-It is safer to be humble with one<br/>
talent than to be proud with ten.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-That was a pleasant and instructive<br/>
reply made by the chief manager of the<br/>
immense corporation known as Wells,<br/>
Fargo & Co.’s California Express, when<br/>
asked what new lessons his great experi-<br/>
ence had taught him. “It has taught me,”<br/>
said he, “to trust men. Show confidence<br/>
in them, and they will prove worthy of it.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A soldier who, in going from Bal-<br/>
timore to Rock Island, had met with<br/>
four accidents, was on the fifth occasion<br/>
in a car that completely turned over.<br/>
Making his way through a window, and<br/>
gaining an upright position, he looked<br/>
around him and coolly inquired:—-<br/>
“What station is this?” He thought<br/>
this was a way they had of stopping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-As a surgeon in the army was going<br/>
his rounds examining his patients, he<br/>
came to a sergeant who had been hit by<br/>
a bullet in the left breast, right over<br/>
the region of the heart. The doctor,<br/>
surprised at the narrow escape of the<br/>
man, exclaimed, “Why, my man, where<br/>
in the name of goodness could your heart<br/>
have been?” “I guess it must have been<br/>
in my mouth just then, doctor,” replied<br/>
the poor fellow, with a faint and sickly<br/>
smile.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“I should think these omnibus<br/>
wheels would be fatigued, after running<br/>
all day,” observed John. “Well, yes,<br/>
replied Tommy, taking a squint at them,<br/>
they appear to be tired.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The truest Christian politeness is<br/>
cheerfuluess. It is graceful, and sits well<br/>
on old as well as young. It is the best<br/>
of all company, and adorns the wearer of<br/>
it more than rubies and diamonds set in<br/>
gold. It costs nothing, and yet is valua-<br/>
ble.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Uses of Sunshine.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the use of this term we do not<br/>
mean merely sunlight, but the direct rays<br/>
or shine of the sun. Mankind are dying<br/>
for want of it. We build our houses to<br/>
be sure, with a world of windows, but<br/>
they are chiefly put in to make a hand-<br/>
some display outside. We are careful to<br/>
curtain them inside, so as to shut out the<br/>
rays of the sun. It is a good argument<br/>
in favor of curtains and blinds, that if<br/>
the light be let in too strongly it will fade<br/>
the carpet. So far as carpets are con-<br/>
cerned this is true, as they are generally<br/>
made, but can we have colors in carpets<br/>
which the light will not seriously effect [?]<br/>
If carpets fade by letting the light in,<br/>
there is another thing that fades by keep-<br/>
ing the light out, viz: the human being.<br/>
On the shady side of the street, the hos-<br/>
pital, and prison, cholera, scrofula, bili-<br/>
ous complaints, and nervous diseases are<br/>
more frequent and fatal than on the sun-<br/>
ny side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We advise everybody to live on the<br/>
sunny side of their house. The room in<br/>
which the family spends most of its time<br/>
should be on the side in which the sun<br/>
can find its way into it. Let the parlor,<br/>
if it be seldom used, be on the shady side.<br/>
We observe that there is not a cottager<br/>
so ignorant that will not set her plants,<br/>
if she has taste enough to grow them, in<br/>
the east window in the morning, and at<br/>
noon carry them to a south window, and<br/>
in the afternoon put them in a west win-<br/>
dow. But perhaps she is careful to keep<br/>
her children in the shade, and her preci-<br/>
ous self, so far as possible, out of the rays<br/>
of the sun. The plants, in obedience to<br/>
natural law, are kept healthy while the<br/>
children and mother, being kept in the<br/>
shade, suffer in consequence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Light is beginning to be considered a<br/>
great curative agent, and we apprehend<br/>
that the time is not far distant when<br/>
there will be sun baths. Corridors with<br/>
glass roofs will be so adjusted that per-<br/>
sons can properly remove their clothing<br/>
and take a bath in the sun for an hour<br/>
or two, much to the improvement of their<br/>
health. The chief advantage in going to<br/>
the country is to get into the sunshine,<br/>
and to be in the pure breezes. If we<br/>
desire merely to keep cool, we should stay<br/>
in the shady city. People talk of "hot<br/>
walls" "burning pavements;" it is much<br/>
hotter in the country, for the breezes that<br/>
play there in mid-day bring only heated<br/>
air in from outdoors. But in the city the<br/>
breeze brings air in from the shady side<br/>
of the street, and the lower rooms of a<br/>
city house are much cooler in mid-day<br/>
than the exposed houses of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our soldiers, who were able to bear<br/>
the labor and fatigue of war, are inviger-<br/>
ated by the out door life they lived. We<br/>
knew a young man in New York who<br/>
came back from the war and resumed his<br/>
former occupation of book-keeping; and<br/>
lost 30 pounds weight in six weeks It<br/>
would do him good to be a farmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Parents can do nothing better for their<br/>
puny sick boys than to put them on a<br/>
farm for two or three summers and let<br/>
the sun bathe them the livelong day.<br/>
They will, by such a life, grow rapidly,<br/>
and become tough, brawny, and broad.<br/>
We have seen this tried to the highest<br/>
advantage in more than one instance un-<br/>
der our advice.—-PHRENOLOGICAL JOUR-<br/>
NAL.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
National Debts.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scientific men have been telling for<br/>
sometime that the coal beds of England<br/>
would become exhausted in the course of<br/>
time-—a hundred years or so—-or would be<br/>
dug so low that the coast of coal would be<br/>
so increased that England would lose her<br/>
advantage and supremacy as a great man-<br/>
ufacturing nation ; but the people of that<br/>
country did not really believe it, or have<br/>
not stopped to think of and realize it, till<br/>
John Stuart Mill, the eminent political<br/>
economist, took up the matter in parlia-<br/>
ment the other day, announced his full be-<br/>
lief in the early exhaustion of the coal<br/>
beds, and the approach of a day when<br/>
England will not be able to bear so heavy<br/>
burdens as now, and solemnly warned his<br/>
countrymen that if the national debt is<br/>
ever to be paid, this generation must take<br/>
held of the work. And Mr. Gladstone, in<br/>
presenting his annual budget, on the 3d,<br/>
reiterated the same views, and fully com-<br/>
mitted himself to the policy of beginning<br/>
in earnest and at once the work of reducing<br/>
the national debt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Gladstone also entered quite large-<br/>
ly, in his peculiarly clear and interesting<br/>
style, into the general subject of national<br/>
debts, and the stealthy borrowing of money<br/>
which, he declares, has become the stand-<br/>
ing vice of almost every government in<br/>
Europe. “There is nothing,” said the<br/>
chancellor, “so insidious as financial dif-<br/>
ficulty. It approaches with smiles and<br/>
caresses. Borrowing for the first time<br/>
appears open to no objection. There is<br/>
nothing in it alarming or menacing. It is<br/>
like the cup of the lioness, spoken of by<br/>
one of the Greek poets, which was rashly<br/>
taken by the hunter into his house. When<br/>
it was young it was reared with his dogs<br/>
and placed among his children. But when<br/>
it grew up and felt its strength it deluged<br/>
the house with gore.” The debts of nine<br/>
European countries now amount to $7,500,<br/>
000,000, all accumulated within the pres-<br/>
ent century, and the greater part in the<br/>
last twenty years. The English debt is<br/>
$8,994,545,000, a little larger than our own,<br/>
but as the rate of interest is less, not so<br/>
much of a public burden. This debt is<br/>
$8,000,000 less than just before the Crim-<br/>
ean war, showing that in twelve years<br/>
England has repaired the losses of that<br/>
campaign and commenced the work of re-<br/>
duction again, but not fast enough, as the<br/>
chancellor of the exchequer seems to think,<br/>
and he proposes a plan, which, by 1885,<br/>
will extinguish about fifty millions of the<br/>
capital of the debt. In his speeches on the<br/>
reform question Mr. Gladstone has alluded<br/>
to this country in very complimentary<br/>
terms, and it is pleasant to see that in the<br/>
matter of a national debt, also, he finds the<br/>
most satisfactory example in the United<br/>
States. He declared that he contemplates<br/>
our debt with the least anxiety of any, and<br/>
said that if our people show the resolution<br/>
in finance that they exhibited during the<br/>
war, it may be extinguished in a genera-<br/>
tion, and without constituting any difficul-<br/>
ty to the American people.—-SPRINGFIELD<br/>
REPUBLICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-06_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
PURCHASING LOWER CALIFORNIA.—-It<br/>
is stated that a negotiation of considera-<br/>
ble magnitude has just been concluded<br/>
with the Republican Mexican Minister<br/>
at Washington, which involves the cession<br/>
to certain American capitalists, of nearly<br/>
the entire peninsular of Lower California<br/>
for colonization purposes, and to secure<br/>
the development of the extraordinary<br/>
mineral wealth of that territory. The<br/>
Mexican Republican Government retains<br/>
an interest in the proceeds of the enter-<br/>
prise, but it is understood that the sum<br/>
advanced by the parties who have secured<br/>
the grant is upwards of a million of dol-<br/>
lars. The names of the following per-<br/>
sons appear in the conveyance as holding<br/>
the privileges in trust for the parties:<br/>
Jacob B. Leese, Benjamin F. Butler,<br/>
John Anderson, George Wilkes, William<br/>
G. Fargo, William R. Travers, S. L. M.<br/>
Barlow, Francis Morris and Edward S.<br/>
Sandford.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REPORTED MASSACRE AT GOODWIN,<br/>
ARIZONA.—-A despatch from San Fran-<br/>
cisco, May 6th, says : A messenger arriv-<br/>
ed yesterday at Los Angeles, bringing a<br/>
despatch from the commander of Fort<br/>
Grant to Gen. Mason, announcing that<br/>
Fort Goodwin, Arizona, had been taken<br/>
by two thousand Indians, and twenty-<br/>
four men massacred, with one exception,<br/>
and the fort burned. The man who es-<br/>
caped was out hunting at the time, and<br/>
witnessed the commotion from a distance.<br/>
He saw the fort burning, and heard firing<br/>
of guns during the fight, which lasted<br/>
nearly an hour.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CONDITION OF THE FREEDMEN.—-The<br/>
official reports of the Assistant Commis-<br/>
sioners of the Freedmen’s Bureau to the<br/>
Commissioner at Washington, for the<br/>
month of April, show a continued im-<br/>
provement in the relations between the<br/>
white and black races in the States re-<br/>
cently in rebellion. The freedmen seem<br/>
to be gaining more correct notions of<br/>
their responsibilities as well as privileges<br/>
in their new character as freedmen, and<br/>
where they conduct themselves inoffen-<br/>
sively the whites are becoming more dis-<br/>
posed to treat them civilly and deal just-<br/>
ly with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE ANNIVERSARY of the death of<br/>
Stonewall Jackson was observed at Rich-<br/>
mond on the 10th by floral decorations<br/>
of the graves of Confederate soldiers at<br/>
Holyrood and Oakwood. Both cemeteries<br/>
were thronged with ladies and their es-<br/>
corts. Several brief addresses were made<br/>
at each place. The Richmond Inquirer<br/>
had its columns in mourning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GEN. SANTA ANNA, of Mexican fame,<br/>
arrived in this city on Saturday last and<br/>
went to Elizabeth, N. J., to stay with a<br/>
friend. The object of his visit is not<br/>
made known. He favors the liberal<br/>
Government and is probably here in that<br/>
interest. Arrangements are reported for<br/>
a mass meeting of the friends of the<br/>
Mexican Republic at Cooper Institute.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REPORT BOAT:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers...... $ 1.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passage to or from the Bar...... $ 5.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Special boats to or from the Bar, $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (L. F.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
