---
linkTitle: 'December 27th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - December 27th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); December 27th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 74
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, December 27th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 51.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Children's Nutting Song.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BY EMILY HUNTINGTON MILLER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who has no sunshine in his heart,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}May call the autumn sober;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But boys with pulses leaping wild,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Should love the brown October.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Along the glade and on the hill,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The ruddy oaks are glowing,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And merry winds are out by night,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Through all the forests blowing.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The yellow moon is clear and bright,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The silent upland lighting;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The meadow grass is crisp and white,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The frosts are keen and biting.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A shining moon, a frosty sky,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}A gusty morn to follow,—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To drive the withered leaves about,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And heap them in the hollow.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Hurrah! the nuts are dropping ripe<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}In all the wildwood bowers;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We'll climb as high as squirrels go,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}We'll shake them down in showers.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}When heads are gray and eyes are dim,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}We'll call the autumn sober;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But now, with life in every limb,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}We love the brown October.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}—Our Young Folks, for Sept.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Has she a Call to Be a Wife?
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife who thinks<br/>
more of her silk dress than her children,<br/>
and visits her nursery no oftener than<br/>
once a day? Has that woman a call to<br/>
be a wife who sits reading the last novel,<br/>
while her husband stands before the<br/>
glass, vainly trying to pin together a<br/>
buttonless shirt bosom?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has that woman a call to be a wife<br/>
who cries for a cashmere shawl when her<br/>
husband's notes are being protested?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has that woman a call to be a wife<br/>
who expects her husband to swallow<br/>
diluted coffee, soggy bread, smoky tea,<br/>
and watery potatoes, six days out of sev-<br/>
en?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife who flirts<br/>
with every man she meets, and reserves<br/>
her frowns for the home fireside?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife who comes<br/>
down to breakfast in abominable curl<br/>
papers, a soiled dressing gown, and<br/>
shoes down at the heel?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, who bores<br/>
her husband, when he comes into the<br/>
house, with the history of a broken tea-<br/>
cup, or the possible whereabouts of a<br/>
missing broomhandle?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, whose hus-<br/>
band's love weighs naught in the balance<br/>
with her next door neighbor's damask<br/>
curtains, or velvet carpet?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, who "has<br/>
the headache" whenever her husband<br/>
wants her to walk with him but willing-<br/>
ly wears out her gaiterboots promenading<br/>
with his gentleman friends?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, who would<br/>
take advantage of a moment of conjugal<br/>
weakness to extort money or exact a pro-<br/>
mise?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, who takes<br/>
a journey for pleasure, leaving her hus-<br/>
band to toil in a close office, and "have<br/>
an eye" when at home, to the servants<br/>
and children?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has she a call to be a wife, to whom a<br/>
good husband's society is not the greatest<br/>
of earthly blessings, and a house full of<br/>
rosy children is the best furnishing and<br/>
prettiest adornment?—FANNY FERN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Josh Billings Defines his
Position.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I got yure letter by ackzident, and re-<br/>
ply very mutch as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am a black Republikan, with white<br/>
antycedents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I alwus wuz agin slavery of enny kind,<br/>
not bekase it wuz konstitushonal, but be-<br/>
kase it wuz ungodly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I don't beleev the best judges of ko-<br/>
lor kan pick out a nigger's soulin the<br/>
Kingdom of Heuven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I beleev in the doctrine of seccesshon<br/>
—if I don't like mi home and am 21, i<br/>
hev a rite tew go oph, but i haint got<br/>
enny rite tew take the old man's farm,<br/>
or his tin-wair with me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I voted for Andu Johnson ; he is a<br/>
smart man ; he hev sed a grate menny<br/>
good things—about himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Individuauls ov a wandering turn ov<br/>
mind kan git out ov the Union, but no<br/>
State kan ; therefore I am in favor ov<br/>
having all the States representid in Con-<br/>
gress, just az soon az there kan be found<br/>
enny white mails who haint been wand-<br/>
ering tew much lately.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am in favor ov being made Postmas-<br/>
ter in our city, but I am about the only<br/>
man that is, which speeks well for the<br/>
disinterestedness ov our citizens.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am also in favor ov short stories<br/>
when a man haint much to say.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
JOSH BILLINGS.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
CHILDREN MAY teach us one blessed,<br/>
one enviable art—-the art of being easily<br/>
happy. Kind Nature has given to them<br/>
that useful power of accommodation to<br/>
circumstances which compensates for<br/>
many external disadvantages, and it is<br/>
only by injudicious management that it<br/>
is lost. Give him but a moderate por-<br/>
tion of food and kindness, and the peas-<br/>
ant's child is happier than the duke's;<br/>
free from artificial wants, unsatiated by<br/>
indulgence, all Nature ministers to his<br/>
pleasure he can carve out felicity from a<br/>
bit of hazel twig, or fish for it success-<br/>
fully in a mud puddle.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Absurdities.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To attempt to borrow on the plea of<br/>
extreme poverty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To judge of people's poverty by their<br/>
attendance at church.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To keep your clerks on miserable sa-<br/>
laries and wonder at their robbing you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To make your servants tell lies for you.<br/>
Afterwards to be angry at them because<br/>
they lie for themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To tell your own secrets and believe<br/>
other people will keep them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Price of Salvation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several years ago, a missionary among<br/>
the Indians was visited by a proud and<br/>
powerful chief, who had been deeply<br/>
convicted of sin by the Spirit of God.<br/>
The savage, while trembling under a<br/>
sense of his guilt, like a great many civilis-<br/>
ed persons, was unwilling to take the<br/>
water of life freely, and hence offered<br/>
his wampum to avert the dreaded punish-<br/>
ment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The man of God shook his head, and<br/>
said,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No, Christ cannot accept such a sacri-<br/>
fice!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Indian went away, but unable to<br/>
rest beneath the frowns of his Maker,<br/>
came back and offered his rifle and the<br/>
skins he had taken in hunting.—The<br/>
missionary again said,<br/>
"No, Christ cannot take such a sacri-<br/>
fice!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The wretched sinner withdrew, but the<br/>
Spirit gave him no peace, and he return-<br/>
ed once more to offer his wigwam, his<br/>
wife, his children, and all that he had, if<br/>
he could only find pardon and eternal life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The missionary was compelled to say,<br/>
"No, Christ cannot accept such a sacri-<br/>
fice!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The chief stood for a moment with his<br/>
head bowed, as if on the verge of despair,<br/>
and then raising his streaming eyes to<br/>
Heaven, his heart poured itself forth in<br/>
a cry of unreserved surrender and con-<br/>
secration :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Here, Lord, take poor Indian, too!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thackeray's Habits.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man ever more decidedly refuted<br/>
the silly notion which disassociates genius<br/>
from labor. His industry must have been<br/>
unremitting, for he worked slowly, rarely<br/>
retouching, writing always with great<br/>
thought and habitual correctness of ex-<br/>
pression. His writing would of itself<br/>
show this; always neat and plain; capable<br/>
of great beauty and minuteness. He used<br/>
to say that if all trades failed, he would<br/>
earn sixpences by writing the Lord's<br/>
Prayer and the creed (not the Athanasian)<br/>
in the size of one. He considered and<br/>
practiced calligraphy as one of the fine<br/>
arts, as did Porson and Dr. Thomas<br/>
Young.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He was continually catching new<br/>
ideas from passing things, and seems fre-<br/>
quently to have carried his work in his<br/>
pocket, and when a thought, or a turn<br/>
struck him, it was at once recorded. In<br/>
the fullness of his experience he was<br/>
well pleased when he wrote six pages of<br/>
"Esmond" in a day; and he always<br/>
worked in the day, not at night.—He<br/>
never threw away his ideas; if at any time<br/>
they passed unheeded, or were carelessly<br/>
expressed, he repeats them or works them<br/>
up more tellingly.—In these earlier writ-<br/>
ings, we often stumble on the germ of an<br/>
idea, or a story, or a character with which<br/>
his greater works have made us already<br/>
familiar.—-Dr. John Brown.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gen. Baird's Report.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since Johnson's defense of it, perhaps<br/>
no further evidence was needed that the<br/>
New Orleans riot was an atrocious mas-<br/>
sacre in the interest of treason. But Gen.<br/>
Baird's report discloses facts not hereto-<br/>
fore known, and clearly proves that the<br/>
men Voorhees, and Munroe, and Herron,<br/>
with whom Johnson corresponded, and<br/>
under whose orders he put Sherman, were<br/>
the guilty abettors of this murderous af-<br/>
fair. They prepared beforehand a brigade<br/>
of rebel soldiers as special police.—They<br/>
armed them with navy revolvers.—They<br/>
drew them off their beats the night pre-<br/>
vious, They deceived Gen. Baird as to<br/>
the time the convention was to meet, thus<br/>
securing the absence of the soldiery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then they marshaled their forces with<br/>
military precision and murderous intent.<br/>
While the negro procession was attacked<br/>
on one side, they cut off retreat on the<br/>
other.—They spared none of the defense-<br/>
less unfortunates, thus surrounded. Their<br/>
carts carried off the dead and disposed of<br/>
them. They practiced on the pirates'<br/>
motto, that "dead men tell no tales."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then they got up a grand jury, the fore-<br/>
man of which was a rebel Colonel, and<br/>
every member of which had been a traitor,<br/>
and issued a tissue of lies which they call<br/>
a bill of indictment. Such is the travesty<br/>
of justice, and the relapse into barbarism<br/>
which the President of the United States<br/>
disgraces the nation by defending in this<br/>
year of grace 1866.—UTICA HERALD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Anecdotes of Dogs.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A dog in a monastery, perceiving<br/>
that the monks received their meals by<br/>
rapping at a buttery door, contrived to<br/>
do likewise, and, when the allowance was<br/>
pushed through, and the door shut, ran<br/>
off with it. This was repeated till the<br/>
theft was detected.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Another dog, belonging to Mr. Tay-<br/>
lor, a clergyman who lived at Colton,<br/>
near Wolseley Bridge was accused of<br/>
killing many sheep. Complaints were<br/>
made to his master, who asserted that<br/>
the thing was impossible, because the<br/>
dog was muzzled every night. The<br/>
neighbors persisting in the charge, the<br/>
dog one night was watched, and he was<br/>
seen to draw his neck out of the muzzle,<br/>
then to go to a field and eat as much of<br/>
a sheep as satisfied his appetite. He<br/>
next went in to the river to wash his<br/>
mouth, and returned afterward to his<br/>
kennel, put his head into the muzzle again,<br/>
and lay very quietly down to sleep.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The will of a Drunkard.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I die a wretched sinner; and I leave<br/>
to the world a worthless reputation, a<br/>
wicked example, and a memory that is<br/>
only fit to perish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I leave to my parents sorrow and bit-<br/>
terness of soul all the days of their lives.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I leave to my brothers and sisters shame<br/>
and grief, and reproach of their acquain-<br/>
tance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I leave to my wife a widowed and<br/>
broken heart, and a life of lonely struggl-<br/>
ing with want and suffering.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I leave to my children a tainted name,<br/>
a ruined position, a pitiful ignorance,<br/>
and the mortifying recollection of a father<br/>
who, by his life, disgraced humanity, and<br/>
at his premature death joined the great<br/>
company of those who are never to enter<br/>
the kingdom of God.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Tennessee.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE WICKED GO UNPUNISHED.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a very difficult thing for a freed-<br/>
man to get justice in the courts. Almost<br/>
every day some poor fellow makes his<br/>
way to Nashville, wounded and distress-<br/>
ed. His employer or some other villain,<br/>
in a moment of excitement, has fired on<br/>
him with the intention of killing him.<br/>
The truth is, there is a class in the South<br/>
who would rather shoot at a negro than<br/>
at a fox or a squirrel. They think it<br/>
sport. They have no regard for his life<br/>
or limbs. Half a dozen freedmen have<br/>
been shot dead or dangerously wounded<br/>
in this county within a few months past,<br/>
and yet no man has been punished, and<br/>
I doubt whether any one of the cold-<br/>
blooded murderers of freedmen I see on<br/>
the streets every day, will ever be pun-<br/>
ished. They never will be if Andrew<br/>
Johnson's policy is indorsed by the<br/>
northern people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Your readers will remember that a<br/>
most bloody massacre occurred some<br/>
months since in Memphis. Many of the<br/>
most foul murders that have been per-<br/>
petrated in any country were committed<br/>
in that city; and the murderers are well<br/>
known, yet no one has been indicted by<br/>
the grand jury, and no one of them has<br/>
been arrested. The civil authorities will<br/>
not punish them, and the military are<br/>
restrained by that man at Washington,<br/>
who rose to power when Abraham Lin-<br/>
coln was assassinated. HE HAS REFUSED<br/>
TO AUTHORIZE THE MILITARY AUTHORITIES<br/>
TO BRING THE MEMPHIS MURDERERS TO<br/>
JUSTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now these are sad facts, and they<br/>
portend evil. The faces of Union men<br/>
in Tennessee are becoming troubled and<br/>
anxious, and they have but one hope.<br/>
If the northern people at the coming<br/>
elections speak with a voice of thunder<br/>
in condemnation of Johnson's policy,<br/>
then all will be well; that is their hope.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I can not think that the great struggle<br/>
through which we have passed, at the ex-<br/>
pense of so much blood and treasure, is<br/>
to end in nothing substantial and val-<br/>
uable; and it does not seem to me<br/>
possible that President Johnson can be<br/>
permitted by the Almighty to blast the<br/>
hopes of the most gallant nation under<br/>
the sun.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I will add a news item, that Major<br/>
General Fisk has been dismissed the ser-<br/>
vice. He is one of the noblest of men,<br/>
but could not indorse Johnson. His<br/>
removal is a heavy stroke on the freed-<br/>
men, and all loyal men here feel indig-<br/>
nant.—-RELIGIOUS TELESCOPE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Riot at a Camp Meeting.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Camp-meeting, near Baltimore, the<br/>
last of August, attended by both white<br/>
and colored, was set upon by a gang of<br/>
rowdies and broken up. Several negroes<br/>
were badly beaten and wounded, and a<br/>
white man, while at prayer, shot in the<br/>
head and killed. The attack was first<br/>
made on the colored people, who rallied<br/>
two or three times and drove their as-<br/>
sailants from the ground; but their tents<br/>
were broken up, their trunks pillaged,<br/>
the contents burned, and they were fin-<br/>
ally driven to their homes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Texas.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Kiddoo, Assistant Commissioner writ-<br/>
ing Gen. Howard says:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest trouble I have in the ad-<br/>
ministration of the affairs of the Bureau<br/>
of this State consists in protecting the<br/>
Freedmen from lawless violence. Mur-<br/>
der and outrage are largely on the in-<br/>
crease. Every mail from the interior<br/>
brings me reports from my agents, and<br/>
other trustworthy sources of information, <br/>
of murders, from one to five at a time, of<br/>
negroes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am left so powerless to give proper<br/>
protection, for want of troops to sustain<br/>
my agents and make arrests, that I grow<br/>
sick at heart, and wonder at the war<br/>
power of the government leaving this<br/>
unfortunate class of people, whom it<br/>
liberated by force, thus exposed to the<br/>
violence of a chagrined and life-long<br/>
enemy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following is from a letter written<br/>
by a Southern-born Texan to a friend<br/>
in New York:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Matters are going from bad to worse<br/>
in Texas, every day. Crimes of violence,<br/>
especially against freedmen, are fright-<br/>
fully on the increase. Since 5 p. m.<br/>
yesterday (and it is 9 a. m.), four cases<br/>
of murder of negroes have been reported<br/>
to me, and none of them will be men-<br/>
tioned by the press.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The loyal element here, white and<br/>
black, is overwhelmed with gloom. The<br/>
United States officers, civil and military,<br/>
in Texas are here on SUFFERANCE, and<br/>
have not the power to sustain themselves<br/>
if attacked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gen. Wood, Commissioner for the<br/>
Bureau, reports from Columbus, the<br/>
same disposition to take advantage of<br/>
ignorant freedmen, and discharge them<br/>
without breach of contract on the freed-<br/>
men's part. Crime is on the increase, and<br/>
murders are reported in Noxubee coun-<br/>
ty. A colored man was taken from Mr.<br/>
Ryles's house, near Palo Alto, and, after<br/>
being beaten, had his ears cut off and was<br/>
partially castrated. The civil authorities<br/>
have not as yet punished the offenders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
District, Jackson—-A case of murder<br/>
occurred here which the civil authorities<br/>
refused to notice. Cases of attempt to<br/>
kill and running off of colored men by<br/>
dogs, etc., are reported: they are being<br/>
investigated. There is only one school,<br/>
and that in the city of Jackson.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_1_18 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Persecution in the South.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Below we give a short extract from a<br/>
report of Rev. J. P. Chalfant, late Pastor<br/>
of Trinity M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and<br/>
now Superintendent of Missions for the<br/>
M. E. Church in Western Georgia and<br/>
Alabama.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
HAS THE GENERAL STATE OF SOCIETY IM-
PROVED IN THE LAST THREE MONTHS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let the following facts answer:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. THE MASSACRE OF COLORED PEOPLE<br/>
AT MEMPHIS. The result is summed up<br/>
by the investigating committee as fol-<br/>
lows: let it go upon the record, and go<br/>
down to posterity: Colored people killed,<br/>
46; whites, 2; rapes on colored women,<br/>
5; maltreated, 10; robberies, 100; houses<br/>
and cabins burned, 91; churches, 9;<br/>
schoolhouses 12. Value of property de-<br/>
stroyed $130,991.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of these colored people were<br/>
murdered in cold blood; men and women<br/>
were shot in bed; little children were<br/>
dragged out, and their brains clubbed<br/>
out on the spot. In one instance, a sick<br/>
girl, one of the most promising scholars<br/>
in Memphis, arose from her bed, and<br/>
rushed out of the flames, but was shot<br/>
and thrown back and burned to a crisp.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. THE MYSTERIOUS REMOVAL OF TWO<br/>
TEACHERS, FOSTER AND M' COOL, FROM<br/>
CORINTH, MISS. They were modest, in-<br/>
offensive young men, from Ohio. Threats<br/>
were made against them, of which they<br/>
took no notice, but proceeded with their<br/>
school, sleeping in the school-house, for<br/>
they could find no white family who<br/>
would board them. One night after a<br/>
heavy discharge of musketry about their<br/>
house, all was still, and next morning<br/>
they were gone. They have never been<br/>
seen or heard of since, though the Mayor<br/>
of Corinth, and the Freedmen's Bureau,<br/>
have put forth commendable efforts to<br/>
find out the men who removed them; as<br/>
yet they have learned nothing. A young<br/>
lady then undertook to teach the school;<br/>
she taught but one day, for that night<br/>
the house was burned down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. THE RECEPTION OF ANONYMOUS<br/>
LETTERS AND THREATS. One Union man<br/>
in Huntsville has received as many as<br/>
four or five, warning him to leave.<br/>
Threats of personal violence have been<br/>
made against the Superintendent of the<br/>
work of the M. E. Church. Efforts of a<br/>
public and private character to bring into<br/>
disrepute the ministers of the Methodist<br/>
Episcopal Church—the studied effort to<br/>
prevent our purposes—the circulating of<br/>
a slanderous report through the societies<br/>
formed by Rev. Mr. Lakin, in Jackson<br/>
country, Ala., that he had been convicted<br/>
of horse-stealing and sentenced to the<br/>
penitentiary, and had finally run away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. THE SURROUNDING OF THE PLACE<br/>
OF WORSHIP IN LA GRANGE, GA., where<br/>
Rev. J. H. Caldwell was holding services,<br/>
and annoying them from evening to<br/>
evening, firing as many as thirty to forty<br/>
shots of an evening, so the whistle of the<br/>
bullets could be distinctly heard about<br/>
their heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5. The holding of an indignation<br/>
meeting because we dared to visit Oxford,<br/>
Ga., and preach to the colored people;<br/>
and the writing of an insulting letter<br/>
calling in question the character of one<br/>
of the oldest and most reputable minis-<br/>
ters of the Georgia Conference, for no<br/>
cause, except he had come back to his<br/>
mother, the Methodist Episcopal Church.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
6. The burning of one church at<br/>
Jonesboro, Ga., as soon as purchased by<br/>
the Methodist Episcopal Church; and the<br/>
burning of a school-house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
7. THE PERSECUTION AND ANNOYANCE<br/>
OF UNION MEN in other fields, till such<br/>
men as Rev. Jno. Murphy and Rev. J.<br/>
W. Talley cry out, “We can not stand it<br/>
much longer unless the Government<br/>
protects. Is there no help?—-Why do<br/>
rebels reign?” and the other, “Our per-<br/>
secutions are as great as Wesley’s.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These facts, with scores of others that<br/>
now lie before us, go to show the state<br/>
of society in this country. Will any<br/>
man say that the rights of conscience are<br/>
respected, that Union or Northern citi-<br/>
zens are respected?-—Cin. Papers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
December 29th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our paper.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It now becomes our duty to inform<br/>
the subscribers for the “Bangkok<br/>
Recorder” that we have determined<br/>
to suspend the paper when the last<br/>
No. of this second volume shall have<br/>
been issued. Our reasons for so do-<br/>
ing are, first, that we cannot longer af-<br/>
ford to suffer the continual pecuniary<br/>
loss we do by it; second, that we can-<br/>
not afford the time it requires in the<br/>
editorial department as it interferes<br/>
too much with our great work of<br/>
preaching the gospel to this heathen<br/>
people; and third, that in assuming<br/>
the editorial charge of the paper last<br/>
January we had no purpose of contin-<br/>
uing in such charge longer than a<br/>
year, thinking that we could at or be-<br/>
fore the expiration of that time trans-<br/>
fer the entire responsibility of it, to<br/>
other hands. But now as we have<br/>
received no proposition from other<br/>
parties to this end, we feel compelled<br/>
hereby to give notice that the paper<br/>
will be suspended after the issue of<br/>
the 52nd No. of this volume, until some<br/>
other party shall come forward to as-<br/>
sume the care and responsibility of<br/>
it continuance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we shall have an extra amount<br/>
of office work at the beginning of the<br/>
next year, we think it quite likely<br/>
that we shall be obliged to postpone<br/>
the last No. of the paper until<br/>
week after next.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A glide up the Broadway of
Bangkok
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose now to conduct our<br/>
readers up Broadway another sail to-<br/>
wards the royal palace. As we stop-<br/>
ped in our previous glance at the<br/>
Prot. Church, we will resume it at that<br/>
place, and proceed along glancing<br/>
first on one side of the river and then<br/>
on the other as we before did.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On your right hand, next above the<br/>
Church, is a pleasant brick house of two<br/>
stories, built by John Gunn Esq. a few<br/>
years since, now we think, owned by a<br/>
Chinese Importer, and is at present<br/>
occupied by J.C. Campbell, Inspector<br/>
of Customs. It has the usual hip-roof<br/>
of European brick buildings, is covered<br/>
with earthen tiles, and has a tasty front<br/>
yard which, as usual, with all residences<br/>
on the river is without any front fence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next above this is the establish-<br/>
ment of the BANGKOK Dock Co. It<br/>
is quite humble in its external appear-<br/>
ance, having little more than wooden<br/>
buildings, thatched with attap leaves<br/>
to exhibit to passers by on the river,<br/>
and these not at all tasty or comman-<br/>
ding in their appearance. But the<br/>
Dry Dock itself is thoroughly made<br/>
and the machinery for pumping it<br/>
dry and the machine-shop connected<br/>
with it, are quite complete and abun-<br/>
dantly efficient. It was put into oper-<br/>
ation more than a year ago, and has,<br/>
as we have been informed, been well<br/>
worked ever since. It is certainly a<br/>
great advance upon the usual native<br/>
mud-docks which are not few even<br/>
in its vicinity. Capt. John Bush,<br/>
Habor Master and Master attendant<br/>
deserves great credit for this grand in-<br/>
novation of old custom of which he<br/>
has been the chief man in the concern<br/>
from the beginning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Turning your eyes to the opposite<br/>
side of the river,-—that is the western,<br/>
you will see an almost unbroken line of<br/>
floating houses extending from a point<br/>
about opposite the Church up as far<br/>
as the bend in the river will allow<br/>
you to look. These most singular<br/>
dwellings and mercantile shops are,<br/>
probably, on an average about 40 by 30<br/>
feet on their base, but one story high,<br/>
and that only eight feet from floor to<br/>
beam. The roof of each house is<br/>
double,—-that is two distinct two sided<br/>
steep roofs of nearly equal size cover<br/>
it, causing the house to look as if there<br/>
were two distinct houses placed in<br/>
close contact side by side with their<br/>
gable ends looking up and down the<br/>
river, the front roof being always a<br/>
little lower than the one in the rear.<br/>
An eve-trough passes through each<br/>
house where the twodouble roofs meet,<br/>
and this is always seen within six or<br/>
eight feet above the floor. Each house<br/>
has a narrow open verandah fronting<br/>
the river, and a closed one on each<br/>
end and back side. They are all en-<br/>
closed either with bamboo wattling or<br/>
teak boards. Each house is kept<br/>
from sinking by its own independent<br/>
raft or float of bamboos, ranging from<br/>
five to six hundred poles in number.<br/>
They are all moored end to end, with<br/>
only two or three feet space between<br/>
each, by means of teak posts driven<br/>
into the bed of the river, from two to<br/>
four at each end; and the houses<br/>
are made fast to them by large<br/>
wooden rings which slide up and<br/>
down upon them to conform to the<br/>
rising and falling of the tides. The<br/>
harbor laws requires that they shall<br/>
form an even line, so far as their fron-<br/>
tage is concerned, so as to make them<br/>
as little as possible a nuisance on the<br/>
river. You will scarcely never see any<br/>
one of them painted, and very seldom<br/>
with a bright and lively wood color,<br/>
but contrariwise all of them of a<br/>
gloomy, gray, weather,-beaten look,<br/>
like the attap thatching with which<br/>
they are uniformly covered. But ac-<br/>
casionally you will see a small break<br/>
in the line, which is the front opening<br/>
to the river of a bright brick house<br/>
on the shore. And the number of<br/>
such bright openings has increased<br/>
latterly very manifestly. But they<br/>
are notwithstanding as yet quite<br/>
sparse. The intermediate houses<br/>
which stand thickly on all the lots are<br/>
mostly of wood of two stories,about half<br/>
of them enclosed with bamboo wattling<br/>
and the other thatched with attap.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is time to glide up the river<br/>
a little, and have a look on the right<br/>
hand side again. Passing the Dry<br/>
Dock a few rods you will see here<br/>
and there a Buddhist temple, none of<br/>
them very imposing, with mud-ducks<br/>
insterspersed among them, until you<br/>
come next door to the Roman Catho-<br/>
lic Cathedral. Here is a spacious, but<br/>
a very uncouth one story brick build-<br/>
ing, which for several years, till with-<br/>
in a few months last past was occupied<br/>
by Messrs Virgin & Co as a variety<br/>
Store and Ship Chandlery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The R. C. Cathedral stands some<br/>
twenty or thirty rods from the bank of<br/>
the river. It is a singular looking<br/>
structure, built many years ago of so-<br/>
lid brick work, one of its ends fronting<br/>
the river, and strangely narrow, as<br/>
seems to us, for the purposes for which<br/>
it was made. There is a Collegiate<br/>
Institute in its immediate vicinity,<br/>
buildings small but chiefly of brick,<br/>
and far from being inviting to transient<br/>
spectators in their external appearance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing the large commons in front<br/>
of the Cathedral, you come next to<br/>
the Union Hotel, consisting of a cou-<br/>
ple of two storry wooden houses,<br/>
standing close to the bank of the river,<br/>
nearly of the same size, and seperated<br/>
but a few feet from each other. They<br/>
each have a front verandah with a<br/>
foot bridge from the one to the other,<br/>
so that the two houses become practi-<br/>
cally one. They are enclosed partly<br/>
with teak, partly with bamboo,<br/>
thatched with attap, and have the<br/>
usual weather-beaten gray gloom of all<br/>
unpainted wooden houses in Bangkok,<br/>
with the exception that some of<br/>
their window blinds are painted green<br/>
and give to them a little brightness of<br/>
look. The LIQUOR BAR is quite con-<br/>
spicuous from the river as seen through<br/>
one of the green window openings,<br/>
and there can be little doubt that it al-<br/>
lures many precious souls into the<br/>
fatal snares of the spirit of wine which<br/>
is a "mocker".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next establishment above this,<br/>
is one of the most tasty dwellings of<br/>
all the foreign residents in the city.<br/>
It is a large and lofty two storied<br/>
white brick building, with a spacious<br/>
upper verandah enclosed with white<br/>
venitian blinds. The lower open<br/>
verandah leads into the variety Store<br/>
and Ship Chandlery of Messrs Remi de<br/>
Montigny & Co. The hall of the Store<br/>
opens in the rear into a very spacious<br/>
and inviting go-down in which are<br/>
exposed a great variety of European<br/>
goods.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next building above this is the<br/>
French Consulate. It is a brick two<br/>
story house erected by the Siamese<br/>
government and consequently not very<br/>
comely of itself, but, when fitted up by<br/>
a French official, with a tasty front<br/>
yard attached, it looks quite well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Immediately above the French<br/>
Consulate you come to the establish-<br/>
ment of the Siamese minister of ag-<br/>
riculture,—CHOW PHYA POSLATAPE.<br/>
The buildings are many and nearly all of<br/>
brick, located near the river, not at all<br/>
imposing and with a confused and<br/>
cluttered front.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing up eight or ten rods, you<br/>
will come to the residence of Doct J.<br/>
Campbell R. N. &c. &c., surgeon to<br/>
the British Consulate. It is a tall two<br/>
story brick house, thatched with at-<br/>
tap, with wide verandahs all about it,<br/>
and a very pleasant door-yard in<br/>
front.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Premises of the British Con-<br/>
sulate come next in order on the next lot<br/>
above. It is a large place, comprising,<br/>
we should judge, some three or four<br/>
acres of land, with a frontage on the<br/>
river of more than 300 feet. There<br/>
are three large brick edifices on the<br/>
place besides several smaller ones.<br/>
The one used for the Consulate is of<br/>
the most solid brick work, of three<br/>
tall stories, with a hip-roof, covered<br/>
with earthen title. The front veran-<br/>
dahs of the 2nd and 3d stories are<br/>
enclosed with rather course venitian<br/>
blinds, and till quite lately unpainted,<br/>
and consequently of a gloomy look.<br/>
They are now painted a lead color<br/>
which, though not at all lively, is quite<br/>
an improvement on what it was formerly.<br/>
The business of the Consulate is mostly<br/>
transacted on the lower story, and the<br/>
rooms are spacious and pleasant. This<br/>
building stands ten rods from the<br/>
river, and that open space is adorned<br/>
with a great variety of shrubbery and<br/>
curious plants peculiar to Siam, collec-<br/>
ted by the late Sir Robert Schom-<br/>
burgsk. The other two dwellings are<br/>
each of two tall stories, but less<br/>
spacious than the office building. One<br/>
of them stands about fifteen rods from<br/>
the river and the other twenty five,<br/>
yet so as to give to each a good river<br/>
view. There is a commanding sala<br/>
at the landing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the next lot above is the<br/>
Portuguese Consulate with much less<br/>
imposing buildings, nearly all of brick.<br/>
But there is a large brick building going<br/>
up very slowly, designed to become<br/>
the chief building of the establishment,<br/>
and would seem to have been well<br/>
planned and thus far executed for a<br/>
tasty edifice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nearly in front of this is the Ship<br/>
Chandler's Store of Messrs Sandberg<br/>
and Co. just on the bank of the river,<br/>
a very small concern to look at from<br/>
the boat, but one of a good deal of<br/>
business done in a cheap way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the rear of the new building of<br/>
the Portuguese Consulate, some forty<br/>
rods from the river, is the site of the<br/>
Am. Baptist mission, you have only a<br/>
partial view of but two of the dwell-<br/>
ings of the mission. The other is<br/>
quite hidden in the rear of the Por-<br/>
tuguese Consulate. Two of the build-<br/>
ings are of brick, the other partly of<br/>
brick and partly of wood, and all of<br/>
two stories and covered with the in-<br/>
combustible tiles. By the kindness of<br/>
the P. Consul the missionaries have<br/>
the free use of the large commons be-<br/>
tween them and the river, with a good<br/>
brick walk to the common landing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Just at the corner of this com-<br/>
mons, you will see a long wooden<br/>
building of a story and a half one<br/>
end on the bank of the river, at-<br/>
tap-thatched, and neatly painted.<br/>
This is a branch of the French House<br/>
of Malherbe Jullian & Co. in which<br/>
you will find a great variety of Euro-<br/>
pean goods, strongly inviting you to<br/>
make purchases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the rear of this is a large brick<br/>
go-down, of commanding appearance,<br/>
as it stands out with uncommon bold-<br/>
ness from all other buildings; but it has<br/>
never seemed to be much occupied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As our reporter of to-day’s sail is not<br/>
allowed to extend this chapter much<br/>
farther, he will have to stop here in front<br/>
of the Am. Baptist mission, only adding<br/>
that we are still nearly half a mile<br/>
below the range of floating houses on<br/>
the Eastern side of the river, while<br/>
the line on the opposite side is quite<br/>
continuous from where we last looked<br/>
at it, and extends up the river as far as<br/>
your eyes can see.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shan Land-Sketches
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
HISTORY, GEOGRAPHY,
LITERATURE & RELIGION.
CHAPTER IV.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In speaking of the Siamese as de-<br/>
rived from the Shans, in my first<br/>
chapter, I said that branch which wan-<br/>
dered off to the sea towns and vicinity,<br/>
became much modified by intermarry-<br/>
ing with other nations; These in the<br/>
immediate sea towns intermarrying<br/>
mostly with Chinamen. Once while<br/>
visiting the Sanatarium at Anghin I<br/>
was not a little amused and interested<br/>
in tracing the early history of the town,<br/>
and I dare say others have a similar<br/>
one. But it may be more difficult to<br/>
trace in less healthy towns. Here<br/>
people live to a good old age, proving<br/>
its good qualities for a Sanatarium in-<br/>
dubitable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chatting one day with the wife of<br/>
the official for the Chinese part of the<br/>
population, she told me her great<br/>
grandmother, Yai Rong, died some<br/>
twenty years ago aged one hundred<br/>
and ten years. And she took me to<br/>
visit her husband's mother Yai Chan,<br/>
still one of the most beautiful ladies I<br/>
have ever seen in Siam. This old lady's<br/>
mother, and the great grandmother of<br/>
the Palat's wife, and the mother of<br/>
another old lady of the village, Yai<br/>
Bu yet full of life and affection, though<br/>
more than eighty years old, were all<br/>
heroines in their way.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the Burmans made their last<br/>
aggressive war into Siam, some six<br/>
reigns since, and destroyed the old<br/>
capital, laid wast the country, seized<br/>
booty and people everywhere to enrich<br/>
themselves, and left the country<br/>
without a king and without hope, these<br/>
three old ladies found an asylum at<br/>
Anghin, and eventually became the<br/>
wives of some staid old Chinese bach-<br/>
elor fishermen, who had built a few<br/>
huts in the then almost trackless forest.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Tall oaks from little acorns grow,<br/>
Largestreams from little fountains flow"<br/>
But let the old ladies tell their story.<br/>
Yai Bu tells me that four large boats<br/>
crossed over the Gulf from the western<br/>
coast of Siam, fleeing from the invad-<br/>
ing Burmans, and stopped at Anghin<br/>
as the best hiding place, there being<br/>
nothing there to attract the invaders.<br/>
They remained one year at Anghin<br/>
while the Burmans were invading and<br/>
bearing away their booty. and then<br/>
refitted their boats, spread their sails,<br/>
and returned to their old homes in the<br/>
west.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
But in the interim of one year a fair<br/>
daughter had been won by a staid old<br/>
Chinaman, and when the friends,<br/>
parents, uncles, aunts, and cousins<br/>
returned to their old town and homes<br/>
and effects, this one girl let the whole<br/>
family of relatives depart while she<br/>
clave to her husband. She never had<br/>
occasion to regret her choice. Her<br/>
husband was always true and kind.<br/>
They were one flesh. They reared a<br/>
large family of children and saw them<br/>
well married and well settled. But as<br/>
then Anghin had few inhabitants, the<br/>
girls married casual visitors from other<br/>
towns on the coast and formed a nu-<br/>
cleus for other towns. One daughter<br/>
for example has a large family of des-<br/>
cendants in Rayawng, a town still<br/>
further down the coast.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yai Bu married at Anghin. There<br/>
was a fine young Chinaman of twenty<br/>
five, came to this land of Canaan, to<br/>
the hard pressed poor people of the<br/>
great over populated empire at the<br/>
north. He made his way to Anghin.<br/>
Yai Bu was in her girlhood, full of<br/>
energy and thrift, imbibed from her<br/>
industrious Chinaman father. The<br/>
young emigrant soon wooed and won<br/>
her. And they, a fine young couple,<br/>
put their heads together how best they<br/>
could secure an honest livelihood.<br/>
Sometimes he gave himself to the<br/>
“kappi” business, snaring a sort of<br/>
sardine and steaming it for the Siamese<br/>
market, or salting it for export. Yai<br/>
Bu, a helpmate entered into all his<br/>
plans, and by her thrift made the most<br/>
of what her good husband had provided.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And what proved a great stimulus<br/>
to both, they reared a large family of<br/>
children. Ten boys and girls crowned<br/>
their board, and seven grew up to<br/>
manhood and became the centres of<br/>
new families clustering around the old<br/>
homestead, and raising up children to<br/>
marry in turn and enlarge the original<br/>
circle, till now old Yai Bu can hardly<br/>
number the children and grand-child-<br/>
ren and great-grand-children that live<br/>
in her very neighborhood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In talking with the Palat's wife of<br/>
her old great-grand-mother we became<br/>
quite excited over the subject. She<br/>
died after her great grand daughter had<br/>
married aud become the mother of<br/>
children. So she could gather round<br/>
her children of the fourth generation.<br/>
The Palat's wife remembers perfectly<br/>
the stories of the old lady of what she<br/>
had seen and heard and suffered. Those<br/>
were troublous times for Siam indeed,<br/>
when the Burmans made their last<br/>
onset upon the country. The people<br/>
fled everywhere in the greatest conster-<br/>
nation. Thousands and thousands died<br/>
of hunger and want and exposure. Of<br/>
whole families that were driven from<br/>
homes, to seek a hiding place as they<br/>
might, often only one survived to tell<br/>
the tale of terrible suffering. Such<br/>
was the fate of Yai Rong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She wandered on foot from one of<br/>
the towns north of the capital, hiding<br/>
in holes and caves by the way when<br/>
she saw a depredator on her track. So<br/>
hiding and escaping, she eventually<br/>
reached Anghin and here found an<br/>
asylum and a home, for she married<br/>
one of the Chinese fisherman of Ang-<br/>
hin.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Here she stayed in peace when<br/>
P'raya Täk came to Bangplasoi on his<br/>
way to conquest and rule. Here she<br/>
was in peace during all the rule of<br/>
P'ra Putta-yäwt-fä and P'ra Putta-<br/>
Lert-lä and till the close of the last<br/>
reign. Yai Rong had survived all<br/>
these changes, living quietly at Anghin,<br/>
her children's children's children rising<br/>
up to call her blessed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her great-grand-daughter who was<br/>
a mother before she died, has now a<br/>
large family of children, she too, the<br/>
only wife of her husband, is destined<br/>
to be allied by marrige to many of the<br/>
prominent officials on the eastern coast.<br/>
The eldest son is allied to one already,<br/>
and several fair daughters cannot fail<br/>
to be honorably married soon. I hope<br/>
they, like their mother, will all be-<br/>
come honorable examples to all the<br/>
Siamese people of the good state policy<br/>
of allowing only one wife.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mother of the Palat, daughter<br/>
of the third heroine, speaks Chinese<br/>
well, as well as Siamese. She seems<br/>
a little proud of her Chinese descent,<br/>
as to that she is indebted for her de-<br/>
licate complexion. Her husband came<br/>
from China, a young man of twenty,<br/>
without money and without friends,<br/>
except an old uncle at Anghin. But<br/>
he was evidently very enterprizing,<br/>
and gradually became wealthy, also<br/>
much honored by the king, as he re-<br/>
cieved the title of - "Lord of the stone<br/>
town." He was long the ultimatum [?]<br/>
of all town business of all kinds and<br/>
character at Anghin, and seemed to<br/>
fulfil his duties to the satisfaction of<br/>
all parties, up to the day of his death<br/>
which occured only a few years since.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His high position subjected him to<br/>
temptation. It was with him as has<br/>
been with officials elsewhere. They<br/>
are a terror to evil doers, but being<br/>
officials do evil with impunity. He<br/>
dealt in opium on a lage [?] scale, and<br/>
more dared do so without that pro-<br/>
tection from government which comes<br/>
from paying taxes. It was eventually<br/>
known to the king, and he was oblig-<br/>
ed to pay a large fine. But his large<br/>
fortune enabled him to do so without<br/>
serious detriment, and he gave his<br/>
energies to fisheries and trading in<br/>
other departments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are now seven children of his,<br/>
all living in Anghin, well married and<br/>
thrifty, living near neighbors to the<br/>
old lady their mother, who occupies<br/>
much the most important native house<br/>
in the village, and is called by all the<br/>
people, her ladyship. The old gentle-<br/>
men seems to have set off his children<br/>
a homestead from his own lands, and<br/>
built them a house as they severally<br/>
married, and they each became a new<br/>
nucleus, and now there is a large circle<br/>
of grand-children who are taught to<br/>
hold in high esteem their honored<br/>
grand-father and his distinguished<br/>
lady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house the old lady occupies was<br/>
built by her husband after a Chinese<br/>
model, and very much after the man-<br/>
ner of old Jewish houses in Bible times,<br/>
having an open court surrounded by<br/>
picturesque buildings. What most<br/>
interested me was the rural appearance<br/>
of the rear yard. This must have been<br/>
long long ago the shore of the sea, and<br/>
the washings of the ocean has piled<br/>
up quite a hill of very picturesque ap-<br/>
pearance of lime deposits. This hill<br/>
is made to act an important part in a<br/>
summer house where the old lady takes<br/>
her afternoon nap, and at the same<br/>
time affords convenient nooks for<br/>
storehouses, cookery establishments<br/>
and eating departments, which the old<br/>
lady told me complacently had former-<br/>
ly been fully occupied though now<br/>
quiet reigns there the livelong day.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN EXPLANATION—-We have been<br/>
casually informed that we made a<br/>
misstatement in our last issue concern-<br/>
ing what was once the Am. Steam<br/>
Rice Mill of this city. We are always<br/>
sorry to hear of any errors made in<br/>
our articles, for the desire of our hearts<br/>
and steady aim ever has been to be<br/>
strictly accurate when we have stated<br/>
anything as a fact. We honestly thought<br/>
that what we said of that Mill concer-<br/>
ning its present owners was correct.<br/>
But now we hear from good authority<br/>
that no part of the Mill is owned by<br/>
natives. We have the impression that<br/>
a part of the concern is owned by<br/>
Messrs. Pickinpack Thies & Co.—but<br/>
how much we know not. We should<br/>
have been very thankful for an accu-<br/>
rate statement of the matter directly<br/>
from its present owners for our pres-<br/>
ent issue. But failing of this, we off-<br/>
er this as a substitute.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is our painful duty to record the<br/>
death at her late residence in this city, of<br/>
Mrs Bush, wife of Captain John Bush,<br/>
Harbor master and Master Attendant<br/>
of this Port, on Thursday evening the<br/>
27th inst. In her death, the husband<br/>
has been bereaved of a beloved and<br/>
most amiable wife, the children (eight<br/>
in number) of a good mother, and this<br/>
community of foreign residents of a<br/>
very lovely and distinguished member.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mrs Bush had been latterly some-<br/>
what subject to ill turns for which she<br/>
had been to the Sanitarium at Anghin<br/>
twice within the last few months and<br/>
with the happiest results. On her<br/>
return some three weeks since, she<br/>
seemed to be quite a picture of health,<br/>
and continued to be so regarded until<br/>
a short time before her death. There<br/>
was scarcely one of all her foreign<br/>
friends in this city outside of her own<br/>
family, who had the first thought of<br/>
her being sick until they were astonish-<br/>
ed by the report of her death. It ap-<br/>
pears that she had been somewhat in-<br/>
disposed several days with an irritable<br/>
stomach which disabled her from taking<br/>
food. On the night of the 26th she<br/>
had suffered from vomiting more than<br/>
was usual, which so weakened her by<br/>
8 or 9 o'clock A. M. of the 27th as to<br/>
give her friends the first alarm that her<br/>
life might be in danger. Dr. J. Camp-<br/>
bell was consequently called, and<br/>
found that she was indeed in imminent<br/>
danger. He remained in attendance<br/>
nearly all the day, but found that the<br/>
medical art could do no more than<br/>
simply prolong a little the flickering<br/>
life. She departed in the perfect pos-<br/>
session of her reason most calmly and<br/>
without a struggle at 7 P. M. We<br/>
think her age was about 37 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A post-mortem examination has<br/>
revealed, as we have been informed,<br/>
several inflamed patches on the mucous<br/>
membrane of the stomach.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The funeral for our departed friend<br/>
took place yesterday at 4 P. M. and<br/>
was attended by an unusual number of<br/>
foreign residents, and several represen-<br/>
tatives of the Siamese government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An Apology.-—This No. of our pa-<br/>
per we are obliged to defer issuing un-<br/>
til Monday the 31st in consequence<br/>
of the abrupt departure from our ser-<br/>
vice, two days since, of our chief com-<br/>
positor-—a Portuguese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are sorry to inform our patrons<br/>
for the Bangkok Calendar, that in set-<br/>
ting up the Siamese part of it from<br/>
March to October, a serious mistake<br/>
has been made, so that it has entirely<br/>
destroyed the correspondence between<br/>
the English and Siamese reckoning.<br/>
It is in our estimation so important that<br/>
this correspondence should be accurate,<br/>
we have determined to reprint that<br/>
part of the work. This will necessa-<br/>
rily delay the issue of the Calendar<br/>
until about the 20th of next month.<br/>
And we would hereby crave the par-<br/>
don of our patrons for this failure of<br/>
fulfilling the promise we made them<br/>
of issuing the work about the first of<br/>
January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Calendar for 1867 will contain<br/>
but little more than what may be deem-<br/>
ed indispensable to a calendar, and<br/>
will comprise from 80 to 90 large oc-<br/>
tavo pages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is still an opportunity for<br/>
any who wish to make changes in<br/>
publishing their business relations or<br/>
merely their names in the catalogue<br/>
of Bangkok residents; and this op-<br/>
portunity will be extended to the 8th<br/>
proximo. We would beg all the for-<br/>
eign residents to give us the means<br/>
for doing this with the utmost cor-<br/>
rectness, and we will endeavor to com-<br/>
ply fully with their wishes.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
It appears that the late celebration<br/>
of the birthday of His Excellency<br/>
Chow Phya Kalahome on the 23d inst.<br/>
was the most joyful, exuberant, and<br/>
splendid of any one of the 58 that had<br/>
proceeded it. It is said that there was<br/>
a very unusual amount of congratula-<br/>
tory contributions to the occasion, made<br/>
by princes, nobles, lords, and people,<br/>
that H. M. the king, besides many oth-<br/>
er valuable birthday presents, was<br/>
pleased to honor the right arm of his<br/>
government by a gold tical for every<br/>
year of his life, a silver tical for every<br/>
month of his life, and an att for every<br/>
day of his life. His Majesty has over<br/>
been remarkable for counting the years<br/>
of his own life as well as that of his<br/>
friends, by months and days. We<br/>
think he seldom fails, when closing<br/>
any letter, to give the number of days<br/>
he has reigned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bazar.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of our readers who have been<br/>
interested in the Ladies bazar, will be<br/>
glad to learn that the result exceeded<br/>
their most sanguine expectations. The<br/>
sum realized being nearly 700 ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant church which was<br/>
tastefully decorated for the occasion,<br/>
looked characteristically quiet and plea-<br/>
sing, amid the evergreens and majes-<br/>
tic foliage which surrounds her. The<br/>
sale, which was well attended, consid-<br/>
ering it was mail time, commenced at<br/>
about 2 P. M. and continued with in-<br/>
creasing, and even joyous animation,<br/>
till eve, not Milton's eve, but nature's<br/>
own sweet eve, with her purple zone<br/>
and shadowy eyes, clear and deep as<br/>
a lake closed upon the cheerful scene.<br/>
Each and all of the members of the<br/>
L. B. A. we believe, left the spot with<br/>
an especially grateful sense of the sym-<br/>
pathy and encouragement they had<br/>
thus pleasantly experienced, feeling<br/>
that if one moral quality distinguished<br/>
the gentlemen of Bangkok above oth-<br/>
ers, it is their generosity, quiet, unde-<br/>
monstrative, but genuine, and of<br/>
which there are now standing several<br/>
substantial proofs in this Pagan city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steamer Chow Phya left this<br/>
on the morning of the 26th inst. hav-<br/>
ing the following passengers for Sing-<br/>
apore:—Messrs G. A. D. & R. Finck,<br/>
Thompson, Smith, Tucker, Howard,<br/>
Moore, More, Ackson, Maclean, Ken-<br/>
nedy & Robertson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers by the Brig Charefa<br/>
sailed on the 27th inst. for Singapore;<br/>
R. S. Scott Esq. Mr Gardner and two<br/>
Malays.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Lincoln's Refinement.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In his notes of life at the White house<br/>
Mr Carpenter expresses regret that Dr.<br/>
Holland, in his life of Lincoln, admitted<br/>
that Mr. Lincoln frequently indulged in<br/>
anecdotes not entirely delicate, and at-<br/>
tempted to excuse the fact by the lack<br/>
of refining influences in his early life.<br/>
Mr Carpenter expresses the belief that<br/>
the memory of Mr Lincoln has been<br/>
wronged in this matter, and says :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It is but simple justice to his memory<br/>
that I should state, that during the entire<br/>
period of my stay in Washington, after<br/>
witnessing his intercourse with nearly all<br/>
classes of men, embracing governors, sen-<br/>
ators, members of Congress, officers of<br/>
the army and innate friends, I cannot<br/>
recollect to have heard him relate a cir-<br/>
cumstance to any one of them which<br/>
would have been out of place uttered in<br/>
a ladies' drawing-room. And this testi-<br/>
mony is not unsupported by that of others,<br/>
well entitled to consideration. Dr. Stone,<br/>
his family physician, came in one day to<br/>
see my studies. Sitting in front of that<br/>
of the president, with whom he did not<br/>
sympathize politically, he remarked with<br/>
much feeling. 'It is the province of a<br/>
physician to probe deeply the interior<br/>
lives of men; and I affirm that Mr. Lin-<br/>
coln is the purest-hearted man with<br/>
whom I ever came in contact. Secretary<br/>
Seward, who of the cabinet officers was<br/>
probably most intimate with the pre-<br/>
sident, expressed the same sentiment in<br/>
still stronger language. He once said to<br/>
the Rev. Dr. Bellows; "Mr Lincoln is<br/>
the best man I ever knew !" "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Isthmus of Krah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the days of Fraser and Furlong's<br/>
visit to the Isthmus of Krah, we have felt<br/>
convinced that the world would not long<br/>
allow, a very short cut from Bengal and<br/>
from Burmah, to Siam, to Saigou and to<br/>
China to remain unimproved. Two ama-<br/>
teur gentlemen of considerable exper-<br/>
ience, but without a particle of Engineer-<br/>
ing skill or information set up their opinion<br/>
in opposition to two scientific Engineers<br/>
relative to the practicability of using the<br/>
Isthmus either for a canal or for a rail-<br/>
road. The two gentlemen opposed to<br/>
the short cut to Siam and China were<br/>
Mr. Crawford member of the Royal<br/>
Geographical Society of London, and a<br/>
member of Parliament for the city, and<br/>
a Mr. Vaughan, Magistrate of Singapore,<br/>
both of whom have tried to move heaven<br/>
and earth against the scheme. They<br/>
have declared it to be impracticable.<br/>
Indeed it is with them impossible. The<br/>
splendid Pak Chan river which forms the<br/>
boundary at the south of British Burmah<br/>
would hold a fleet and has good anchor-<br/>
age. At the head waters of that river, a<br/>
railroad could be constructed or a Canal<br/>
dug by which the long and dangerous<br/>
route to China VIA the Straits would be<br/>
avoided.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the "STRAITS TIMES" of the 20th<br/>
October, we find the first favorable<br/>
notice made of the probability of open-<br/>
ing this Isthmus of Krah route. When<br/>
John Bull gets his pride touched by a<br/>
Frenchman or an American doing what<br/>
he supposes to be his work, he is in-<br/>
stantly roused, and claims the honor of<br/>
doing his own proper business. The<br/>
lamented Mr. O'Rielly who traveled a<br/>
great deal over the peninsula first drew<br/>
attention to the Isthmus, in a paper he<br/>
sent to the Royal Geographical Society<br/>
of England. He too like the Engineer<br/>
officers, strongly recommended the cut-<br/>
ting either of a Canal or the laying down<br/>
of a railroad to connect the gulf of<br/>
Siam. The plan has so many obvious<br/>
advantages that it led to an application<br/>
being made to the Siamese Government<br/>
by a Mr. D. K. Mason to construct the<br/>
necessary work. Permission was granted<br/>
and a strip of one mile of territory clear<br/>
across, the Isthmus was set apart for this<br/>
grand enterprise. If the work was not<br/>
commenced in ten years from the date<br/>
of the grant, it was to cease by effluxion<br/>
of time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now a French Engineer steps on to<br/>
the scene and engages to dig a canal<br/>
across for the passage of Ships, provided<br/>
the King of Siam will give him not the<br/>
mile of way granted to the Englishman<br/>
but nothing less than a strip of twelve<br/>
miles broad from gulf to gulf. Of course<br/>
the request is very modest. We trust<br/>
the King of Siam will not do such an<br/>
unkingly act, as to break his word with<br/>
Mr. Mason, who is represented as now be-<br/>
ing engaged in forming a Company with<br/>
the necessary capital for the construction<br/>
of the work. Possibly the opposition of<br/>
Mr. Crawford and Mr. Vaughan will now<br/>
cease, since they find, that if an English-<br/>
man is not 'permitted' or encouraged in<br/>
this grand scheme, a French engineer<br/>
will raise the capital required for it in<br/>
Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Singapore must 'consent' with a good<br/>
grace, to loose all that part of the trade,<br/>
which passes from the bay of Bengal to<br/>
Siam and China. We might as well<br/>
advise the people of the United States to<br/>
cling to the old route round Cape Horn,<br/>
and to withdraw from the Isthmus of<br/>
Panama, as to tell the Commercial world<br/>
that the Isthmus of Krah is worthless.<br/>
Commerce is seeking the most derect,<br/>
easy, and safest routes from one market<br/>
to another. By piercing the Isthmus a<br/>
short cut is obtained, which greatly dimi-<br/>
nishes distance, time expense and risk.<br/>
A Canal of twenty five miles long is all<br/>
that is needed. As a mere national work,<br/>
it is nothing of which to boast. If there<br/>
were physical difficulties in the way which<br/>
could not be overcome, then we might<br/>
hesitate to embark in this enterprise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Three such men as Mr. O'Rielly,<br/>
Colonel Fraser and Major Furlong are a<br/>
guarantee that the project is, as they de-<br/>
clare, perfectly feasible. It was upon<br/>
the testimony of these gentlemen. who<br/>
knew the Isthmus of Krah, by actual<br/>
travel and observation, that we confront-<br/>
ed the visionary theories of Messrs.<br/>
Crawford and Vaughan. Both these<br/>
gentlemen fought the Krah scheme tooth<br/>
and nail, for over a period of five years,<br/>
one in London, the other at Singapore, and<br/>
the reason is, they are both personally<br/>
and pecuniarily interested in the southern<br/>
seaport. The public of British Burmah<br/>
simply asked for the subject to be looked<br/>
at on its own merits. If it is a good<br/>
plan, adopt it. If a bad one, reject it.<br/>
A French engineer says it is a good<br/>
scheme and he has already opened a<br/>
Krah office in Paris to give information<br/>
concerning the matter and preparatory to<br/>
issuing a Prospectus, for the formation<br/>
of a Company. If English Capitalists<br/>
with all the honest and reliable informa-<br/>
tion there is before them, deliberately<br/>
make up their minds not to dig these<br/>
twenty five miles of a Canal, them let us<br/>
not act the part of the dog in the manger<br/>
who would not eat the bone himself nor<br/>
allow any other poor dog to eat it. If<br/>
Mr. Crawford and Mr. Vaughan had<br/>
given to Colonel Fraser and Major Fur-<br/>
long's report the support it deserved in<br/>
Commercial circles, we should have had<br/>
the Isthmus of Krah Canal opened by<br/>
this period, for the passage of ships across<br/>
from from gulf to gulf.—RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Corea.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The every startling intelligence con-<br/>
veyed to its readers by the EVENING<br/>
MAIL of last night to the effect that the<br/>
French squadron had suffered a very<br/>
severe repulse before Saoul and had been<br/>
compelled to withdraw from the scene of<br/>
operations with its ships in a seriously<br/>
damaged condition, and with the loss of<br/>
forty men killed and wounded, has all<br/>
the appearance of being an enormous<br/>
exaggeration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In all probability the true facts of the<br/>
case are that the French Admiral finding<br/>
no living enemy to oppose him, but ex-<br/>
periencing the very great difficulties of<br/>
an advance into a strange and hostile<br/>
country at an unfavorable season of the<br/>
year, has simply and wisely sent the ves-<br/>
sels of his squadron into winter quarters<br/>
with the intention of resuming active<br/>
operations so soon as the summer of next<br/>
year opens up the rivers and renders<br/>
movement easy and less dangerous in the<br/>
Corea.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the Koreans met their invaders<br/>
with "rifled cannon, revolving carbines<br/>
and as some assert needle guns" is sim-<br/>
ply incredible, and we are astonished<br/>
that our contemporary should have al-<br/>
lowed himself to be made the victim of<br/>
such an unqualified blunder. Pray from<br/>
whom, if not from the Powers of Dark-<br/>
ness, could the Coreans have obtained<br/>
such weapons and learned their use, sim-<br/>
ple and ignorant as they are. We don't<br/>
question their eagerness to learn. We only<br/>
query their opportunities.—-HONGKONG<br/>
MERCURY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MONSIEUR GIQUEL is going to raise,<br/>
arm, discipline and command a Chinese<br/>
Naval force, for the service of the Im-<br/>
perial Chinese Government, along the<br/>
East and South Coasts of China, and on<br/>
the lakes and rivers of the interior. One<br/>
of our Contemporaries puts it that this<br/>
force is raised not precisely for the ser-<br/>
vice of the Imperial Government, but<br/>
for the service of the four Viceroys rul-<br/>
ing the Coast and river in the provinces of<br/>
South China. They are doubtless the<br/>
promoters of it, and it will serve under<br/>
their immediate orders, within their re-<br/>
pective viceroyalities and will be paid<br/>
out of funds at their disposal for local<br/>
purposes, and not out of the Imperial<br/>
Treasury. But for all that, the new navy<br/>
will be an imperial force just as much as<br/>
the armies now serving in the interior of<br/>
China under different viceroys and Gov-<br/>
ernor Generals are emphatically imperial<br/>
troops though raised and paid by some<br/>
particular province. Before making any<br/>
arrangements for the formation of the<br/>
new naval force the viceroys have had<br/>
to memorialize the Cabinet at Pekin and<br/>
to obtain the imperial assent to their<br/>
plans. At every stage of their operations<br/>
they will have to report and memorialize<br/>
and memorialize and report, and they<br/>
will have to pay respectful obedience to<br/>
any mandate that comes from there,<br/>
whether it be an order to increase the<br/>
force or to alter its constitution or do a-<br/>
way with it entirely. We sincerely re-<br/>
joice at the prospect of some improve-<br/>
ment taking place in Chinese naval af-<br/>
fairs. They are in a most deplorable<br/>
state. Their fleets badly manned, worse<br/>
officered, armed with the most useless<br/>
lumber in the shape of artillery that was<br/>
ever seen in the arsenal of any nation,<br/>
are more like pirate hords than like the<br/>
armed force of a nation so populous, so<br/>
wealthy and in many respects so power-<br/>
ful.—-HONGKONG MERCURY.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Help Wanted"
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Help wanted. That is a fact. We<br/>
all want help—-the rich, the poor, the<br/>
betweenlings. We want it all the<br/>
time, from the cradle to the grave.<br/>
The young, the old, the weak, the-<br/>
strong, the handsome, the ugly. It is<br/>
the incessant prayer of life. The poor<br/>
want riches, the lonely want compan-<br/>
ions, the rich want new gratifications,<br/>
the maidens want husbands, the sick<br/>
want health, the wicked want peace,<br/>
the drunkard wants, rum, the weary<br/>
wants rest. So it goes. In some form<br/>
or other we want help. Help for the,<br/>
muscles, the brain, the heart, the soul,<br/>
the understanding. We go up and<br/>
down in the world seeking for it.<br/>
When we find it, up comes a new call.<br/>
It is always help, more help. "Help<br/>
wanted." Of course it is. Wanted<br/>
at every house in Boston, New York,<br/>
London, Prais, every city and place<br/>
on the great round globe. It is well<br/>
that it is so. Everybody wanting<br/>
help, makes us help one another.<br/>
There is a grand philosophy under-<br/>
lying this matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Heroic Act
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a lecture delivered recently by<br/>
Grace Greenwood, at Boston, on<br/>
"Heroism," she referred to an inci-<br/>
dent that took place at the burning<br/>
of a steamer on one of the western<br/>
lakes:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the few passengers whose<br/>
courage and presence of mind rose<br/>
superior to the night, was a mother,<br/>
who succeeded in saving her two little<br/>
children by the means of a floating<br/>
settee.—-While they were in the water,<br/>
the mother saw a man swimming to<br/>
wards the settee, and, as he was about<br/>
to grasp it, she cried, "Don't take it<br/>
from my poor children!" The man<br/>
made no answer, yet the appeal struck<br/>
home; for, by the light of the flam-<br/>
ing vessel, she could see that his face<br/>
was convulsed by the struggle between<br/>
the mighty primal instinct of nature<br/>
and something better and holier. It<br/>
was but a moment. He threw up his<br/>
hads with a groan of renunciation,<br/>
flung himself over backward and went<br/>
down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Laughing
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No man can laugh any more than he<br/>
can sneeze at will, and he has as little to<br/>
do with its ending; it dies out, disdain-<br/>
ing to be killed. He may grin and guf-<br/>
faw, because these are worked by muscles<br/>
under the dominion of volition; but your<br/>
diaphragm, the midriff, into which your<br/>
joker pokes his elbow, he is the great<br/>
organ of genuine laughter, and he, as<br/>
you all know, when made absurd by hic-<br/>
cup, is masterless as the wind. But it is<br/>
not well that we are made to laugh; that<br/>
from the first sleepy gleam moving like<br/>
sunshine over an infant's cheek, to the<br/>
cheery and feeble chirrup of his great-<br/>
grand-father by the fireside, we laugh<br/>
at the laughable, when the depths of our<br/>
strange nature are dappled and rippled,<br/>
or tossed into wildest laughter by anything,<br/>
so that it be droll, just as we shudder<br/>
when soused with cold water—-because<br/>
we can't help it?-—Dr. John Brown.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds & Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The Washington Star says the<br/>
gift of invisibility was formerly be-<br/>
lieved to be procurable by means of<br/>
fern-seed; but no peculiar power of<br/>
rendering people invisible resides<br/>
specially in the fern. Put on any<br/>
very seedy suit of clothes, and walk<br/>
about in the streets. You will very<br/>
soon find that your acquaintances will<br/>
pass you without seeing you.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"—As I was going over a bridge<br/>
the other day,' said an Irishman, 'I<br/>
met Pat Hewins. 'Hewins,' says I,<br/>
'how are you?' 'Pretty well, thank<br/>
you Donnelly,' says he. 'Donnelly,'<br/>
says I, 'that's not my name.' 'Faith,<br/>
then, no more is mine Hewins.' So<br/>
we looked at nigh other again, and<br/>
shure enough, it was nayther of us."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Luck lies in bed and wishes the<br/>
postman would bring him news of a<br/>
legacy. Labor turns out at six o'clock,<br/>
and, with busy pen or ringing ham-<br/>
mer, lays the foundation of a com-<br/>
petency.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Horace Greeley was at a place<br/>
of amusement one evening, when a<br/>
fellow lounged in and took a position<br/>
directly in front of him, so that it was<br/>
impossible for Mr. G. to see anything<br/>
going on in front. Upon which he<br/>
reached forward and touched the in-<br/>
truder on the shoulder with his white<br/>
hat, and gently requested him "when<br/>
anything interesting occurred upon<br/>
the stage, to let him be apprised of it;<br/>
for you see, my dear sir, that at pre-<br/>
sent I must totally depend upon your<br/>
kindness."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—It is an exquisite and beautiful<br/>
thing in our nature that when the<br/>
heart is touched and softened by some<br/>
tranquil happiness or affectionate feel-<br/>
ing, the memory of the dead comes<br/>
over it most powerfully and irresistibly.<br/>
It would almost seem as though our<br/>
better thoughts and sympathies were<br/>
charms, in virtue of which the soul is<br/>
enabled to hold some vague and my-<br/>
sterious intercourse with the spirits<br/>
of those whom we dearly loved in life.<br/>
Alas, how long may those patient<br/>
angels hover above us, watching for<br/>
the spell which is so seldom uttered<br/>
and so soon forgotten—-Longfellow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-An Eastern paper indulges in the<br/>
belief that many young men marry<br/>
various scraps and bits of a wife in-<br/>
stand of the genuine article. It says:<br/>
"Some young men marry dimples;<br/>
some ears; some noses; the contest,<br/>
however, generally lies between the<br/>
eyes and the hair.—-The mouth, too,<br/>
is occasionally married; the chin not<br/>
so often. A caution is then given to<br/>
heedless youth to beware of marrying<br/>
a curl, however natural looking, a<br/>
neck however swanlike; a voice, how-<br/>
evers melodious."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Not to care where you go is to<br/>
go to ruin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-What can be expressed in words<br/>
can be expressed in life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A lie may respect a small thing,<br/>
but there is no such thing as a small<br/>
lie.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The test of enjoyment is the<br/>
remembrance that it leaves behind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-He who is at war with his neigh-<br/>
bor cannot be at peace with himself.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Flattery sits in the parlor, while<br/>
plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—He who is in search of human<br/>
perfection has saddled his horse for<br/>
a long journey.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—No man has a right to do just as<br/>
he pleases except when he pleases to<br/>
do just right.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Curran describes a politician as<br/>
"one who, buoyant by putrefaction,<br/>
rises as he rots."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Let no one overload you with<br/>
favors; it will be an insufferable bur-<br/>
den.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Ten poor men can sleep tran-<br/>
quilly on a mat, but two kings are not<br/>
able to keep at peace in a quarter of<br/>
the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-If you would convince a man<br/>
that he does wrong, do right. But<br/>
do not care to convince him. Men<br/>
will believe what they see. Let them<br/>
see.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ORR what seems a trifle, a mere noth-<br/>
ing by itself, in some nice situations, turns<br/>
the scale of fate, and rule the most im-<br/>
portant actions.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Theodore II. and the empire
of Abyssinia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cruelties practised by the Sovereign<br/>
of Abyssinia towards our Consul Cameron<br/>
and the other British subjects who have<br/>
had the misfortune of being found within<br/>
the sphere of his brutality, were fre-<br/>
quently made the subject of discussion in<br/>
both Houses of Parliament during the<br/>
recent Session. According to the most<br/>
recent intelligence it appears that the<br/>
Emperor of Abyssinia, maddened by the<br/>
losses he had sustained in an attempt to<br/>
suppress a formidable revolutionary mo-<br/>
vement at Tigré ; and, suspecting that his<br/>
enemies had been assisted by British guns<br/>
and British soldiers, had ordered Mr.<br/>
Consul Cameron, Mr. Rassam, and his<br/>
other English captives, to be beheaded.<br/>
Whether this last statement be true or<br/>
not, the atrocities already committed by<br/>
this regal tyrant are quite enough to in-<br/>
vest him with a horrible interest in the<br/>
eyes of Europe generally ; but more<br/>
especially in those of Englishmen, whose<br/>
fellow-countrymen have suffered such<br/>
cruel indignities at his hands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the writings lately published of<br/>
M. Lejean and M. Du Camp, two French<br/>
gentlemen, who have visited Abyssinia,<br/>
we gather the following extraordinary<br/>
facts regarding the Emperor of Abyssinia<br/>
and his subjects:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Sovereign or Negus, as he is cal-<br/>
led, of Abyssinia, has, unfortunately for<br/>
himself, obtained an unenviable notoriety<br/>
throughout Europe. His name is often<br/>
mentioned as a ruler who has made him-<br/>
self remarkable for the most childish as<br/>
well as the most cruel eccentricities. In<br/>
1854 an insurrection arose amongst the<br/>
great vassals of the country, whilst a<br/>
worthless Negus lived in luxury and<br/>
idleness in his Palace of Gondar. The<br/>
present Emperor took advantage of this<br/>
state of things to gratify his ambition, and<br/>
the following curious story is related of<br/>
him:-—One evening an officer, named<br/>
Kassa, visited the Lake Tana, and, hav-<br/>
ing pronounced some magical words over<br/>
it, there immediately arose from the wat-<br/>
ers of the lake a throne, on which was<br/>
seated a black man dressed in regal attire,<br/>
with a crown upon his head. The follow-<br/>
ing colloquy took place between them:—-<br/>
“Thou hast called me,” said he to the<br/>
officer, “dost thou know who I am?”<br/>
“I know that thou art the chief of bad<br/>
spirits. Shall I reign?” “Thou wilt<br/>
have an agitated life. Answer me, then<br/>
—-shall I reign?” “Yes;” and the spirit,<br/>
with his throne, immediately disappeared.<br/>
Well, this same officer, Kassa Kuaranna,<br/>
son of Hailo (a man of high origin) and<br/>
of a woman whom misery had so reduced<br/>
that she was obliged to eke out a living<br/>
by the sale of Kouse [?] in the streets of<br/>
Gondar, is to-day the Negus Theodore<br/>
II., the King of Kings of Ethiopia. It<br/>
was no easy matter for him to climb the<br/>
ladder that raised him to the throne.<br/>
He had to struggle hard against almost<br/>
all the chiefs of the canton. At times he<br/>
was exposed to much misery, and had to<br/>
fly from his enemies. He, however, pur-<br/>
sued his course with an energy and a<br/>
cunning which saved him from being<br/>
surprised or captured by his enemies.<br/>
He was indebted as much to treason as<br/>
to his arms; to his deeds of darkness and<br/>
cruelty as to his duplicity, for his suc-<br/>
cess. At length he arrived to the posi-<br/>
tion of absolute Sovereign of a people<br/>
who, a short time before, sought to des-<br/>
troy him. The battle of Dereskié, which<br/>
made him Emperor, was fought on Feb.<br/>
5, 1855. The following day Kassa took<br/>
officially the name of Theodore, as he<br/>
knew that there was an old tradition<br/>
which declared that a Negus called<br/>
Theodoros would re-establish the king-<br/>
dom of Ethiopia, annihilate Islamism,<br/>
and retake Jerusalem from the Infidels.<br/>
In virtue of a custom of the ancient<br/>
Sovereigns, he also kept near him during<br/>
his official receptions four tamed lions,<br/>
whose close familiarity at times was by<br/>
no means agreeable to his retainers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From the day of the coronation of<br/>
Kassa an era of tyranny scarcely con-<br/>
ceivable opened upon Abyssinia. One of<br/>
his first proclamations, ordering each<br/>
person to pursue the profession of his<br/>
father, had the effect of collecting to-<br/>
gether a troop of bandits, who, acting<br/>
upon the literal interpretation of the<br/>
imperial edict, demanded the confirma-<br/>
tion of their right to exercise the pro-<br/>
fession of their fathers, who were high-<br/>
way robbers. Pressed by the obstinacy<br/>
of the brigands and by his own words,<br/>
the Negus was compelled to grant the<br/>
authorization which was asked of him.<br/>
The marauders had, however, scarcely<br/>
turned their backs when they found<br/>
themselves surrounded by a body of the<br/>
loyal cavalry, who immediately fell upon<br/>
and sabred them to a man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Theodore once ordered the arrest of a<br/>
religious missionary who had been guilty<br/>
of the unpardonable crime of bearing his<br/>
old name of Kassa. Having first ques-<br/>
tioned the unfortunate captive, he had<br/>
him tied to a tree. Then, uttering the<br/>
words, “In the name of the most Holy<br/>
Trinity,” he shot him dead on the instant.<br/>
Sometimes a shade of irony would be<br/>
mixed up with the ferocious justice<br/>
which he exercised. A soldier had killed<br/>
two merchants. “Why did you assass-<br/>
inate them?” said the Negus. “I was<br/>
hungry,” was the answer. “Could you<br/>
not have simply robbed them?” “If I<br/>
had not killed them they would have<br/>
prevented me.” The Emperor, exasper-<br/>
ated by this ingenious cynicism, ordered<br/>
the two hands of the soldier to be cut off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and to be served up to the man on a<br/>
plate, saying, "Ah! thou art hungry;<br/>
well, eat!" The Negus has, however,<br/>
his moments of mirth. On one occasion<br/>
he ordered the chief prisoners to be<br/>
brought to his table, and there forced<br/>
them to drink of the khousso, the most<br/>
abominable purgative which could be<br/>
imagined.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The unfortunate Consul of England,<br/>
covered with chains, has been forced to<br/>
drink each morning his bottle of khousso,<br/>
and sometimes, in addition, to suffer from<br/>
the bastinado. No, language, however<br/>
wise, has any effect upon Theodore's in-<br/>
fatuted mind to induce him to alter his<br/>
infernal system of cruelty and injustice.<br/>
The Negus believes seriously in his mis-<br/>
sion. In a public discourse he has dared<br/>
to say, "I have made a compact with<br/>
God. He has promised me not to des-<br/>
cend upon earth to strike me, and I have<br/>
promised Him not to ascend to heaven to<br/>
combat Him.' God strikes all those who<br/>
place themselves in my way." To his<br/>
advisers who try to induce him to re-<br/>
nounce his cruelties, he answers that a<br/>
sovereign has no one but God alone to<br/>
render an account to. Theodore believes<br/>
in his mission. What is it? He has ex-<br/>
plained it himself: "This people have a<br/>
hard head, and require chastisement be-<br/>
fore being called to enjoy the blessings<br/>
of Providence. I will be the plague, the<br/>
judgment of God, upon Abyssinia!' And<br/>
as the new programme of his reign, he<br/>
has had engraved upon his howitzers,<br/>
"The plague of the perverse—-Theodore."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Under such a rod of iron the people<br/>
do not feel themselves at ease; they<br/>
murmur constantly, and revolts are fre-<br/>
quent. Each chief of a canton wished<br/>
to be independent, and perhaps to follow<br/>
the bad example of usurpation which<br/>
Theodore has given him. The Emperor<br/>
himself is always at war. His mind, at<br/>
the same time turbulent and profound,<br/>
restless and cunning, is constantly form-<br/>
ing strategic plans, which do not always<br/>
succeed. He moves about with an ex-<br/>
treme rapidity in order to surprise his<br/>
enemies, and never reveals his projects<br/>
until the last moment. In defeat as well<br/>
as in victory his cruelty is the same.<br/>
After the battle of the Oullos, in 1862,<br/>
he caused to be cut off a foot and a hand<br/>
of 8000 prisoners. "This operation was<br/>
not long being executed," said a native<br/>
priest to M. Lejean, "inasmuch as each<br/>
soldier seized his man and cut off the<br/>
limb as coolly as if it were a log of mut-<br/>
ton he was carving. After the battle of<br/>
T'chobar, 1700 captives were massacred<br/>
and left unburied. When he fell upon<br/>
a province and when his orders were<br/>
asked, he answered, "Eat all." Follow-<br/>
ing those expeditions in which no hab-<br/>
itation was spared, the prisoners were<br/>
mutilated and rendered for ever power-<br/>
less; villages were burnt, with harvests<br/>
and forests; huge pits were filled with<br/>
dead bodies, and human blood in-<br/>
fected the drinking-fountains. Theod-<br/>
ore's heralds were soon running through<br/>
the doomed districts, crying, "Listen to<br/>
what the Emperor says: 'I have chastis-<br/>
ed the perverse; I have killed 22,000 men.<br/>
Peace to honest people; nothing shall<br/>
trouble them." Now, these "perverse"<br/>
are always the Abyssinians. Is it, then,<br/>
surprising that they should sing in secret,<br/>
"Happy News! There is no more dust<br/>
upon the roads, because the trees are<br/>
covered with hanging men. Five doses<br/>
of leprosy, six doses of famine: these are<br/>
what we have gained under the reign of<br/>
the Negus."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Negus has a family, and, as God<br/>
has promised the future to the House of<br/>
David, from which he boasts his descent,<br/>
he is easy as to the lot of his children.<br/>
He has two adult sons; the second of<br/>
whom, it is said, possesses many good<br/>
qualities, and has already obtained so<br/>
high a degree of popularity as to excite<br/>
the irritability and jealousy of his father.<br/>
But as to the elder son, he is described as<br/>
a brute beast, who even surpasses his sire<br/>
in cruelty. As an example of his wick-<br/>
ed disposition, he, on a certain occasion,<br/>
sent to his father some baskets actually<br/>
filled with human eyes plucked out from<br/>
the heads of his victims, and at another<br/>
time he amused himself by filling the<br/>
ears of certain prisoners with cartridges,<br/>
and setting fire to the explosive material.<br/>
Once, becoming irritated by such ex-<br/>
travagant cruelties, the Negus had him<br/>
arrested and confined in a stable full of<br/>
asses, telling him that there at least he<br/>
would feel himself at home. Since M.<br/>
Lejean left Abyssinia, it stated that this<br/>
ferocious animal has been put to death.<br/>
—Ill. Lon. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE LEARN by telegraph of a terrible<br/>
gale which swept over the coast of New-<br/>
foundland on Sept. 22. Several coasters<br/>
were lost, and a French frigate, with, it<br/>
is feared, all hands, has also gone down.<br/>
At the time the news left, more than 150<br/>
bodies have been washed ashore, with the<br/>
word "Niobe" on their dress. Nothing<br/>
else had been heard of the vessel or her<br/>
people; but great quantities of wreck<br/>
had been washed ashore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Opportunities to do good create obli-<br/>
gation. He that has the means must an-<br/>
swer for the end.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When once infidelity can persuade<br/>
men that they shall die like beasts, they<br/>
will soon be brough to live like beasts<br/>
also.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We would give as we receive, cheerful-<br/>
ly, quickly, and without hesitation, for<br/>
there is no grace in benefit that sticks to<br/>
fingers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
LETTERS have been received in Glasgow<br/>
from Dr. Livingstone, the distinguished<br/>
African traveller, of date May 1, 1866.<br/>
The doctor was then in good health, and<br/>
prosecuting his important mission succes-<br/>
fully.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
SODA-WATER
LIMONADE &C
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED begs to<br/>
inform the Ladies and gentle-<br/>
men of Bangkok that he has bought the<br/>
business of Mr. Cordeiro and will carry<br/>
on the same business on his own pre-<br/>
mises near the French Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_16 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE connection of MESSRS. SAMUEL<br/>
GILFILLAN, WILLIAM ADAMSON, HENRY<br/>
WILLIAM WOOD, and PATRICK WILLIAM<br/>
AUCHINCLOSS with our business termi-<br/>
nated by common consent on 31st<br/>
October last, and they have ceased to<br/>
act as Managers for us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE BORNEO CO. "LIMITED"
Singapore, 3rd Dec 1866 (1 m.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Malherbe Jullian & Co.<br/>
beg to inform the public, that<br/>
they have established a branch of their<br/>
business in the house formerly occupied<br/>
by F. Blake Esq. near the Portuguese<br/>
Consulate, and that they have just re-<br/>
ceived a large supply of almost every<br/>
thing their customers may desire to<br/>
purchase, and would hereby invite<br/>
them to come and inspect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Dec. 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-27_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED"
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE BEG to inform the Public,<br/>
that we have received a new<br/>
and fine assortment of all kinds of<br/>
liquids as, Champaigne, 1st mark<br/>
Roederer and Sacguesson, superior and<br/>
inferior kinds of Bordeaux and Bar-<br/>
gundy wine, Porto, Sberry and Brandy<br/>
of different marks, English and Ger-<br/>
man Beer. Also fruits, jellies, raisins<br/>
for puddings, and various kinds of<br/>
Biscuits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-15_7_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
AND BANGKOK, MALL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with<br/>
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers . . . . . $ 1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar . . . . . $ 5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar . . $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
