---
linkTitle: 'June 7th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - June 7th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); June 7th'
date: 2025-12-07T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 45
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, June 7th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 22.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Gospel Railroad.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
"Search the Scriptures." —John v. 39.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}In days of old, the LINE to Heaven,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Was rough and stony and uneven,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But now, we live to see the day,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That the old line is done away.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Another line by CHRIST is made,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}With Heavenly truth the RAILS are laid ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From earth to Heaven the line extends,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To life eternal—where it ends.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Repentance is the STATION then,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Where PASSENGERS are taken in ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No fee from them is taken there,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For Jesus Christ has paid the FARE.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}In the first, second and third CLASS,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Faith and repentance for sins pass ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}You must this way to Glory gain,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Or you with Christ can never reign.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}God's grace, the GUARD and ENGINEER,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}It points the way to Heaven so clear,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That be a man e'er so unwise,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Twill guide him far above the skies.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}God's love the FIRE, His joy the STEAM,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Which drives the engine and the TRAIN,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And all that would to glory ride,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Must in the train with Christ abide.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thro' TUNNELS long, and dark as night,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}'Twill take him to the realms of light,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And there he'll meet with all the train,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And never more to part again.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Come then, poor sinner, now's the time,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}At ANY STATION on the line ;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}If you repent, and turn from sin,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The train will stop and take you in.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Anon.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Miss Precocia's Principles.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the most precise of country villages,<br/>
in the primmest mansion ever built, dwelt<br/>
the most precise maiden ever born—Miss<br/>
Prococia Lockwood. Even in that serious<br/>
town, where laughter was reckoned one of<br/>
the smaller sins, and the family in whose<br/>
dwelling the lights were seen burning af-<br/>
ter ten o'clock were considered dissipated,<br/>
there was a current joke regarding Lock-<br/>
wood Cottage, which giddy girls dubbed<br/>
"the Nunnery," and some went so far as<br/>
to call Miss Precocia the "Lady Superior."<br/>
Certainly never convent walls closed<br/>
themselves more grimly against mankind,<br/>
gentle and simple, old and young. What<br/>
in many an excellent spinster has been an<br/>
affectation, was genuine with Precocia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Long ago, a pretty little cousin, who had<br/>
been her confident and companion, had<br/>
become acquainted with a rascal with a<br/>
handsome face and a serpent's soul, and<br/>
had eloped with him. They heard of her<br/>
wearing velvet and diamonds, but no wed-<br/>
ding ring, and driving about New Orleans<br/>
in a handsome carriage, wondered at and<br/>
admired for her beauty, and shunned for<br/>
her sin. And at last, after a long silence<br/>
about her doings, a faded thing in rags<br/>
came creeping at night to Miss Precocia's<br/>
cottage, begging for God's sake that she<br/>
would let her in to die. Miss Precocia did<br/>
the reverse of what most women do. She<br/>
gave a sister's hand to the poor victim.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
nursed her until she died, and buried her<br/>
decently, and thenceforth shut her spinster<br/>
home to man. She was barely twenty-se-<br/>
ven, and far from plain, and she argued<br/>
thus—something in a stovepipe hat and<br/>
boots has wrought this ill—-all who wear<br/>
those habiliments must be tabooed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She kept her resolution. From the poor-<br/>
house she selected a small servant-maid,<br/>
not yet old enough to think of "fellows."<br/>
As cook she kept a hideous old female, too<br/>
far advanced in years to think of them.<br/>
The milk was brought by a German woman.<br/>
The butcher's wife, by request, brought the<br/>
joints. Even a woman cut the grass in the<br/>
yard when it was too long, and if a man<br/>
approached the gates, ancient Deborah, the<br/>
cook, was sent forth to parley with the<br/>
enemy and obstruct his approached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having thus made things safe, Miss<br/>
Precocia went to New York and brought<br/>
home a dead sister's daughter, who had<br/>
hitherto been immured in a boarding<br/>
school, and the arrangements were com-<br/>
plete.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Miss Lockwood took her neice to church,<br/>
also to weekly meeting. They spent after-<br/>
noons out with widow ladies with no<br/>
grown up sons, or with spinsters who re-<br/>
sided in solitary state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The elder lady kept an Argus eye upon<br/>
her blooming niece, and bold indeed would<br/>
have been the man who dared address her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For her part Miss Bella Bloom was an<br/>
arch hypocrite. She had learned that at<br/>
boarding school, where ingenuity is ex-<br/>
hausted in deceiving the authorities, and<br/>
doing always exactly what is most forbid-<br/>
den. Bella Bloom came to Lockwood Cot-<br/>
tage perfectly competent to hoodwink her<br/>
aunt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She did it. Precocia blessed her stars<br/>
that her niece was well-principled. She<br/>
hated men. She wondered how any young<br/>
lady could walk, talk, and be sociable with,<br/>
and marry them. And when she thought<br/>
she lived in a home where they could not<br/>
intrude, how thankful she was Aunt Pre-<br/>
cocia could never guess.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And all the while Bella was chafing in-<br/>
wardly at her restraint, envying girls who<br/>
had pleasant little flirtations at will, and<br/>
keeping up a private correspondence with<br/>
one "Dear George," who sent his letters<br/>
under cover to the butcher's wife, who<br/>
brought them in with the beef and mutton,<br/>
and said—-<br/>
"Bless ye, natur will be natur, for all<br/>
old maids: and I was a gal once before<br/>
Cleaver courted me."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Dear George" was desperate. He could<br/>
not live without seeing his Bella. He<br/>
wrote bitter things about spinster aunts.<br/>
He alluded feelingly to those meetings in<br/>
the garden of the seminary, with Miss Clo-<br/>
ver standing sentry at the gate, on the<br/>
lookout for a teacher and enemy. The<br/>
first opportunity he was coming to Plain-<br/>
acres, and intended to see his Bella or die.<br/>
Was he not twenty-three and she seven-<br/>
teen? Were they to waste their lives at a<br/>
spinster's bidding? No.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Miss Precocia, with her Argus-eyed<br/>
watchfulness, sat calmly, hour by hour,<br/>
two inches from the locked door of a cabi-<br/>
net which contained the gentlemen's let-<br/>
ters, and dined from meats which had<br/>
been the means of carrying them across<br/>
the threshold, inculcating her principles<br/>
into the minds of her niece and her hand-<br/>
maiden, the latter of whom grinned be-<br/>
hind her lady's chair without reserve.<br/>
Charity Pratt, having grown to be sixteen,<br/>
also had her secret. It was the apothe-<br/>
cary's boy, who, in his own peculiar fa-<br/>
shion, had expressed admiration at church<br/>
by staring.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few days after, Dr. Green, the bache-<br/>
lor minister, called at the cottage. Debo-<br/>
rah went out to huff and snap, and was<br/>
suddenly by big eyes. She came in.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Miss," said she, "the clergyman is out<br/>
there."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Where?" gasped Precocia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In the garden, Miss, wantin' you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Me? You said, of course, I was out!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No, Miss. Everybody receives their<br/>
pastor."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So the pastor was ushered in. He con-<br/>
versed of church affairs. Miss Precocia<br/>
answered by polite monosyllables. Bella<br/>
smiled and tit-hed. Deborah sat on a<br/>
ball chair on guard. Finally the best spe-<br/>
cimen of that bad creature, man, was got<br/>
out of the house safely, and the ladies look-<br/>
ed at each other as those might who had<br/>
been closeted with a polar bear and escap-<br/>
ed unharmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"He's gone, aunty," said the hypocrite.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Thank goodness!" said the sincere Pre-<br/>
cocia. "I thought I should have fainted.<br/>
Never let it happen again, Deborah. Re-<br/>
member, I am always engaged."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"But he seems a nice, well-spoken, good<br/>
behaved kind of a gentleman," said De-<br/>
borah."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And a clergyman."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"So he does," said Precocia. "But ap-<br/>
pearances are deceitful. I once know a<br/>
gentleman—"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, Miss."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A Doctor of Divinity, Bell—-"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, auntie."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Who kissed a young lady of his con-<br/>
gregation in her father's garden."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! auntie."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"He afterwards married her. I never<br/>
could visit her, or like him."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Bless you, no!" said Deborah. "Now<br/>
the best thing you can do is to have a cup<br/>
of strong green tea, and something nourish-<br/>
ing to keep your spirits up. Cleaver's wife<br/>
has just fetched oysters in."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Has she? Oh! I so love oysters," cried<br/>
Bella, and ran to get dear George's last.<br/>
It was a brief one, and in it George vow-<br/>
ed to appear at the cottage when they least<br/>
expected him, and demand his betrothed.<br/>
That evening at dusk Miss Precocia<br/>
walked in the garden alone. She was<br/>
thinking of a pair of romantic big eyes, of<br/>
a soft voice and a softer hand which she<br/>
had been surprised into allowing to shake<br/>
hers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“It’s a pity men are so wicked,” said<br/>
she, and sighed. Although she was near<br/>
thirty, she looked very pretty as she walk-<br/>
ed in the moonlight, forgetting to put on<br/>
prim airs and graces, and to stiffen herself.<br/>
Her figure was very much like her niece<br/>
Bella’s so much so that some one, on the<br/>
other side of the convent-like wall, with<br/>
eyes on a level with its upper stones, fan-<br/>
cied it was that young lady. Under this<br/>
belief he clambered up and stood on the<br/>
top, and whispered—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“My dearest, look up, your beloved is<br/>
here; behold your George!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And Precocia lifting her eyes, beheld a<br/>
man on her wall, flung up her hands in the<br/>
air, and uttered a shriek like that of an<br/>
enraged pea-cock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The gentleman discovered his mistake,<br/>
endeavored to retreat, stumbled and fell<br/>
headlong among flower-pots and boxes,<br/>
and lay there quite motionless.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The shriek and clatter aroused the<br/>
house. Deborah, Bella, and Charity Pratt,<br/>
rushed to the scene, and found a gentle-<br/>
man in a sad plight, bloody and senseless,<br/>
and Miss Precocia half dead with terror.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bella, recognizing George, fainted in<br/>
good earnest. Precocia, encouraged by<br/>
numbers, addressed the prostrate youth—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Get up, young man, and go. Your<br/>
wickedness has been, perhaps, sufficiently<br/>
punished. Do go.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“He can’t; he’s dead,” said Deborah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Oh! what a sudden judgment. Are you<br/>
sure he’s dead?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Yes, Miss.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Then take him into the house and call<br/>
the doctor.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They laid him on the bed and medical<br/>
aid came. The poor fellow had broken a<br/>
leg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“He’d get well. Oh! yes, but he could<br/>
not be moved.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Miss Precocia could not murder a fel-<br/>
low creature, and she acquiesced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“He can’t run off with the spoons until<br/>
his leg is better,” said Deborah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“He isn’t able to run off with anything,”<br/>
said Miss Precocia: “and we should be<br/>
gentle with the erring. Who shall we find<br/>
to nurse him?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Old Todds is competent, Miss,” said<br/>
Deborah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Yes. Do send for that old person,”<br/>
said the lady.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And old Todds came. He, of course,<br/>
dwelt in the house. The doctor came eve-<br/>
ry day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The apothecary’s boy invaded the hall<br/>
with medicines; and finally when the<br/>
young man came to his senses, he desired<br/>
earnestly to see his friend, Dr. Green.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Our clergyman his friend?” said Pre-<br/>
cocia. “He must have been misled then;<br/>
surely his general conduct must have been<br/>
proper. May be this is the first time that<br/>
he looked over a wall to make love to a<br/>
lady. By all means send for Dr. Green.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus the nunnery was a nunnery no<br/>
more-—two men under the roof; three visit-<br/>
ing it daily! What was the world com-<br/>
ing to? Miss Precocia dared not think.<br/>
Bella was locked in her own room in the<br/>
most decorous manner, while her aunt was<br/>
in the house, but when she was absent,<br/>
Deborah and Charity sympathized and<br/>
abetted, and talked deliciously to George,<br/>
lying on his back, with his handsome face<br/>
so pale, and his spirits so low, poor fellow!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Troubles always come together. That<br/>
evening Miss Precocia received informa-<br/>
tion that legal affairs connected with her<br/>
property, which was considerable, demand-<br/>
ed her presence in New York, and left<br/>
that establishment, which never before so<br/>
much needed its Lady Superior. She re-<br/>
turned after three days, towards evening,<br/>
no one expecting her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I will give them a pleasant surprise,”<br/>
she thought, and slipped in the kitchen<br/>
way. There a candle burned, and on one<br/>
chair sat two people—Charity Pratt and<br/>
the druggist’s boy. He had his arm around<br/>
her waist!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Miss Precocia grasped the door frame,<br/>
and shook from head to foot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I’ll go to Deborah,” she said. “She can<br/>
speak to that misguided girl better than I.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She entered. Deborah was in the back<br/>
area scouring tea-knives. Beside her stood<br/>
old Todds, the nurse. They were talking.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Since my old woman died,” said Todds,<br/>
“I hain’t seen nobody scour like you—and<br/>
the pies you does make.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“They ain’t better than other folks,”<br/>
said Deborah, grimly coquettish.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“They are,” said Todds; and to Miss<br/>
Precocia’s horror, he followed up the com-<br/>
pliment by asking for a kiss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Miss Precocia struggled with hysterics,<br/>
and fled parlorward. Alas! a murmur of<br/>
sweet voices. She peeped in. Through the<br/>
window swept the fragrance of the honey-<br/>
suckle. Moonlight mingled with that of<br/>
the shaded lamp. Bella leaned over an<br/>
easy chair in which reclined George Love-<br/>
boy. This time Precocia was petrified.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Dearest Bella,” said George.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“My own,” said Bella.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“How happy are we!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Oh! so happy.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“And when shall we be together again!<br/>
You know I must go. Your aunt don’t<br/>
want me here, Bella, I must tell her. Why<br/>
are you afraid of her?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“She’s so prim and good, dear soul,”<br/>
said Bella.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Ah! you do not love me as I do you.<br/>
George!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“You don’t. Would I let an aunt stand<br/>
between us?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Oh! George, you know I have told you<br/>
that nothing can change me. Why, though<br/>
you had stayed lame, and had to walk on<br/>
crutches all your life, it would have made<br/>
no difference, though I fell in love with<br/>
you for your walk. I don't deny it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! oh! oh!" from the doorway, check-<br/>
ed the speech. Those last words had well<br/>
nigh killed Miss Precocia Lockwood. Hys-<br/>
terics supervened, and in their midst a<br/>
gentleman was announced. The Rev. Pe-<br/>
ter Green.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Show him in," said Precocia, "I need<br/>
comfort. Perhaps he may give it!" And<br/>
for the first time in her life she hailed with<br/>
joy the entrance of a man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Loveboy left the room a stealthily<br/>
and as speedily as possible. Bella follow-<br/>
ed him. Charity was in the pantry hiding<br/>
her head, and Deborah returned to the<br/>
cellar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Alone the Lady Superior received the<br/>
Rev. Peter Green. She faltered and blushed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You are, I presume, already aware of<br/>
the fact that I am much disturbed in<br/>
mind," she said.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Yes, madam, that is perceptible."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You are my spiritual adviser, sir. To<br/>
you, though a man, I turn for advice," and<br/>
she shed a tear or two. "My own house-<br/>
hold has turned against me," and she told<br/>
him all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My dear madam, do you not know that<br/>
old Jonathan Todds and your faithful De-<br/>
borah intend to unite their fortunes next<br/>
Sabbath?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! the old sinners. Are they in their<br/>
dotage?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"And that Charity Pratt, who seems a<br/>
likely sort of a girl, has promised to give<br/>
her hand to Zodock Saltz on Thursday!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! Dr. Green. What do I hear?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The truth, madam. Can you hear<br/>
more?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I hope so."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Then it is time that you should be in-<br/>
formed that Miss Bella Broom and Mr.<br/>
George Loveboy have been engaged a year.<br/>
They have corresponded regularly. It was<br/>
to see her he climbed the garden wall and<br/>
met with his accident. Don't give way,<br/>
madam—-don't."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You're very kind," said Miss Precocia,<br/>
"but it's awful! What would you advise?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I should say, allow Todds and Deborah<br/>
to marry next Sunday. And Charity and<br/>
Zeddock on the day they have fixed. And<br/>
I should sanction the betrothal of your<br/>
niece and Mr. Loveboy, and allow me to<br/>
unite them at some appointed day."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My own niece!" said Miss Precocia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Oh! my own niece."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Do you so seriously object to marry-<br/>
ing?" asked the pastor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No—-no," said Precocia. "It's this aw-<br/>
ful courting, I dislike."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I agree with you," said the the pastor.<br/>
"I have resolved when I marry, to come<br/>
to the point at once. Miss Precocia, the<br/>
parsonage needs a mistress. I know of no<br/>
lady I admire and esteem as I do you. Will<br/>
you make me happy, will you be my wife?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Precocia said nothing. Her cheeks<br/>
burned; her lips drooped. He came a lit-<br/>
tle closer. He made bigger eyes at her<br/>
than ever. At last his lips approached and<br/>
touched her cheek, and still she said no-<br/>
thing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In such a case, "speech is silver, and si-<br/>
lence is gold."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Deborah was married on Sunday, it be-<br/>
ing her fortieth birthday. Charity on<br/>
Thursday. Miss Bloom gave her hand to<br/>
George Loveboy in a month; and on the<br/>
same day a brother clergyman united Pre-<br/>
coccia and the Rev. Peter Green. And the<br/>
nunnery was broken up forever.-—THE<br/>
NORTH AMERICAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Recent Cruise of the
“Opossum.”
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE “DAILY PRESS” OF MAY 10.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE promised some further particulars<br/>
about Lieut. ST. JOHN’S recent cruise. It<br/>
seems that when he reached Mina Bay<br/>
there was no sign of the junk he was in<br/>
search of. On shore there was a pirate<br/>
village, but the inhabitants decamped<br/>
and it seemed at first as if there were no<br/>
means of obtaining any information.<br/>
The OPOSSUM came to, however, and her<br/>
commander went on shore to look about<br/>
him. Lieut. ST. JOHN’s tendency to look<br/>
about him, and make discoveries for him-<br/>
self default of previous information, of-<br/>
ten leads to useful results and on this oc-<br/>
casion brought about the success of the<br/>
cruise. He fell in with an old Chinaman<br/>
uncommunicative to begin with, but<br/>
eventually willing to betray his friends to<br/>
save his pigs and poultry which the<br/>
OPOSSUM’S people made a FEINT of car-<br/>
rying off and “confiscating” as Artemus<br/>
Ward says, for the benefit of Her Majes-<br/>
ty’s navy. He pointed out a small creek<br/>
in which the required junk would be<br/>
found and sure enough within a very<br/>
short distance of the gunboat, the stolen<br/>
vessel and one other of smaller dimen-<br/>
sions were discovered, though hidden so<br/>
thoroughly by the intricacies of the shore<br/>
that a day might have been spent in a<br/>
fruitless search for them if there had<br/>
been no information to guide the hunters.<br/>
The “peilongs” (pidgin for pirates) all<br/>
got away except one who tried to hide<br/>
himself but was found on board the largest<br/>
junk, stowed away in its innermost re-<br/>
cesses, where were also found the prison-<br/>
ers who had belonged to the junk before<br/>
she was taken by the pirates. Lieut ST.<br/>
JOHN burnt the smaller craft, and brought<br/>
away the other to Hongkong. By a ruse<br/>
at Sow-ke-wan in returning he captured<br/>
another rover and eight of her piratical<br/>
crew. She was hauled up on the beach<br/>
and when surprised some of the men be-<br/>
longing to her escaped but one man was<br/>
luckily taken who though not belonging<br/>
to the gang of pirates perhaps deserves<br/>
to be made a more striking example,<br/>
than they themselves. This was a Chinese,<br/>
watchman belonging to the colonial police<br/>
who was caught in the act of extorting<br/>
hush money from the pirates. The junk<br/>
was hauled up within a short distance of<br/>
the police station and this rascal was ac-<br/>
tually selling himself almost within sight<br/>
of the sergeant to whom he should have<br/>
given information of her presence. He<br/>
was taken prisoner with the rest and<br/>
will of course he tried in due time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On an occasion of this sort, however,<br/>
the folly of adhering to English forms in<br/>
the administration of justice, is made very<br/>
apparent. Here are a set of wretches<br/>
about whose guilt as pirates, doubt would<br/>
be ridiculous. The same course will be<br/>
pursued with them, however, which would<br/>
be adopted in London in the case of a<br/>
man charged with picking a pocket.<br/>
They will first be brought up before a<br/>
police magistrate, and a preliminary in-<br/>
vestigation will be held, the sole purpose<br/>
of which is to make the friends and allies<br/>
of the pirates in Hongkong acquainted<br/>
with the witnesses, and the nature of<br/>
the evidence to be brought against the<br/>
prisoners. They will be committed for<br/>
trial, and a considerable period will elapse<br/>
during which the friends of the accused,<br/>
possibly their partners in business, hav-<br/>
ing a pecuniary interest in their escape<br/>
and resumption of operations, will have<br/>
the opportunity of buying the evidence<br/>
or suborning false testimony to contro-<br/>
vert it. Money is of course all powerful<br/>
in dealing with native evidence, and that<br/>
is by no means scarce amongst the firms,<br/>
engaged it, the profitable occupation of<br/>
piracy, which have their offices and head<br/>
partners in this colony. The tenacity<br/>
with which the English mind sometimes<br/>
clings to English forms of legal procedure<br/>
even in cases where it is utterly powerless<br/>
to grapple with peculiar characteristics<br/>
of Asiatic crime, is some thing wonderful.<br/>
For years it has been the common re-<br/>
mark by every one who speaks of this<br/>
subject at all, “the pirates always slip<br/>
through the meshes of the law, when they<br/>
are tried at Hongkong,” and yet we go<br/>
on with the laborious farce of enveloping<br/>
them in this net which we know to be<br/>
full of holes. No reasonable man wishes<br/>
to see any human creatures, even Chinese<br/>
pirates hanged without a fair trial. None<br/>
at any rate, but Evangelical clergymen<br/>
entertain a wish of the kind, and then<br/>
only in the case of their own country-<br/>
men under denunciation at Exeter Hall.<br/>
What is needed in the case of pirates<br/>
brought to trial at Hongkong is a special<br/>
tribunal,-—composed say of the Chief<br/>
Justice, and assessors with special know-<br/>
ledge,—before which pirates captured by<br/>
the gunboats should be brought to trial<br/>
immediately they arrive. Of course, such<br/>
a tribunal would have the power of re-<br/>
manding prisoners if there were any<br/>
really substantial reasons for so doing,<br/>
but it would be found in the great major-<br/>
ity of cases that the evidence taken im-<br/>
mediately, before it had been corrupted,<br/>
would be quite clear and conclusive.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE TYCOON AND CHIOSIU.—-We are<br/>
g'ad to give our readers an authent'c estate-<br/>
ment of the present prolitical posilion in<br/>
the Inland Sea. Two Ambassadors from<br/>
the Tycoon, Ogasa-wara-iki-no-kami and<br/>
Nagiu-Mondo-no-kami, are at an island<br/>
in the sea called Hiro-shima, situate near<br/>
the Eastern boundary of Chiosiu's do-<br/>
minions. They are endeavouring to open<br/>
negotiations with Chefoo Kiosayeh, Hizen<br/>
and Tosa, neighbouring Daimios, with a<br/>
view to bring moral pressure to bear on<br/>
the hostile chief and induce him to listen to<br/>
propositions made to him by the Tycoon's<br/>
government. Hitherto their attempts<br/>
have met with no success. Chefoo and<br/>
Kiosayeh have declined to attempt the<br/>
conference, and no answer has been yet<br/>
received from the two latter. The de-<br/>
mands of the Yedo cabinet are:—-that<br/>
the present princes of Chiosiu, Daizen<br/>
the father and Nagato the son, should re-<br/>
tire (in favour of two other princes of<br/>
the house or to be adopted) and that ter-<br/>
ritory capable of producing annually<br/>
100,000 kokus of rice shall be given up<br/>
to the Tycoon to recoup him for the in-<br/>
demnity which he is now paying to<br/>
the Western Powers for the affair at<br/>
Simonoseki.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These terms Chiosiu, secure in his own<br/>
strength and his alliances, has absolutely<br/>
refused. He will fight with reluctance, but<br/>
will certainly fight rather than yield to<br/>
the demands of the rival noble.—O.T.R.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Peking.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Private letters inform us that a pe-<br/>
culiar kind of diphtheria has become very<br/>
prevalent at the capital, and large num-<br/>
bers have already fallen victims to it.<br/>
The new American legation will shortly<br/>
be completed, and will probably be in<br/>
readiness for Mr. Burlingame on his<br/>
arrival.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Wen Seang has gained an important<br/>
victory in the neighbourhood of Moukden,<br/>
and is expected to return in a few months<br/>
to Peking.—OVER. TRADE REPORT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
June 7th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Translation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have seen an article in the Bang-<br/>
kok Recorder, to the effect that the<br/>
Government of Siam has already made<br/>
treaties with the different European<br/>
powers, and should therefore employ<br/>
some one to translate into the Siamese<br/>
language, a work on International<br/>
Law; so that they might understand<br/>
something of this matter. There are<br/>
two ways of taking care of a country.<br/>
One way is, by laws and treaties. The<br/>
other way is, by strength and imple-<br/>
ments of war. Siam is a country which<br/>
has but little strength, and must there-<br/>
fore be taken care of by laws and trea-<br/>
ties. If the government would em-<br/>
ploy some one to translate a work on<br/>
International Law at the cost of<br/>
$ 1000, for one volume, and $ 2500, for<br/>
another, it would cost less than one or<br/>
two gun-boats. The gun-boats too<br/>
would soon decay, and wear out, but<br/>
the International Law would remain a<br/>
lasting benefit to the country. There <br/>
have been many things suggested in<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder, which the<br/>
Siamese government already knew.<br/>
In regard to this last suggestion how-<br/>
ever, I would beg to answer a few<br/>
words. He who is thus continually<br/>
raminding the Siamese government, of<br/>
these things, has undoubtedly great<br/>
love for the country. But the gov-<br/>
ernment had already some time pre-<br/>
vious, taken into consideration the<br/>
subject of having a work on Interna-<br/>
tional Law translated into the Siamese,<br/>
for the benefit of the country, but the<br/>
difficulty has been that they have been<br/>
unable to find any one who, was will-<br/>
ing to undertake it, or able to accom-<br/>
plish it. They can translate the easy<br/>
parts, but the deep portions are too<br/>
many for them. And any who have<br/>
been willing to undertake it have al-<br/>
ready tried their hand, at translating<br/>
other books, but have introduced Eu-<br/>
ropean words &c., that the Siamese<br/>
cannot understand the translation. For<br/>
these reasons therefore, the govern-<br/>
ment has remained silent on the mat-<br/>
ter. But if there is any one who will<br/>
undertake it in earnest, and will not<br/>
omit any thing, but will give a literal<br/>
and idiomatic translation, so that the<br/>
Siamese can understand every portion,<br/>
the government will employ such a<br/>
one to translate a work on Internation-<br/>
al Law for its own use. But a tran-<br/>
slation which it could not understand,<br/>
would be of no benefit. I hear how-<br/>
ever that — — has already had<br/>
portions translated in substance, which<br/>
answers the present purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is one of those spicy,<br/>
and ironical little communications, we<br/>
frequently get from a certain quarter,<br/>
and is by no means flattering to those<br/>
who make some pretensions to the Sia-<br/>
mese language. In translating a work<br/>
on International Law into the Siamese<br/>
language, there are several difficulties<br/>
in the way. In the first place those<br/>
interested in the affair, have hitherto<br/>
been unwilling to pay a sum, sufficient<br/>
to induce any one to devote his whole<br/>
time to it. The translating of the large<br/>
work, would be a work of years, and<br/>
any one who would undertake it would<br/>
expect to be well paid. Some one en-<br/>
gaged in another business, might, by<br/>
devoting odds and ends of time to it,<br/>
eventually accomplish it, but it would<br/>
almost be a work of a lifetime. A<br/>
smaller work, such as Wheaton's, might<br/>
be translated in this way. Then again<br/>
the translation could not be expected<br/>
to be as good, as if a person devoted<br/>
his whole time, and attention to it.<br/>
The Rev. Dr. Martin has prepared a<br/>
compendium of Wheaton, and tran-<br/>
slated it into Chinese for the Pekin<br/>
government. Another difficulty in the<br/>
way, is the poverty of the Siamese<br/>
language. It would be impossible, to<br/>
find terms, and words, in the language<br/>
to express every thing, and the trans-<br/>
lator would have to transfer a num-<br/>
ber of terms, which would create a<br/>
necessity for explanatory notes &c.<br/>
All this would be attended with addi-<br/>
tional labor. Again it is impossible<br/>
for any one not born here, or at least<br/>
brought up here from childhood, to<br/>
make classic Siamese, which they ap-<br/>
pear to expect. All that a European<br/>
could expect to do, would be to make<br/>
it understood by the Siamese. In this<br/>
the Siamese look for too much. To<br/>
translate therefore a work on Interna-<br/>
tional Law into Siamese in such a way<br/>
that every portion of it would be un-<br/>
derstood would be rather an undertak-<br/>
ing, but we think there are those who<br/>
can do it if there is sufficient induce-<br/>
ment forthcoming.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Death of a Royal Son.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince Chrone Rooog-raai" be-<br/>
ing the 24th son, and 48th offspring<br/>
of His Majesty the present reigning<br/>
King of Siam, was born on the 21st of<br/>
August 1860, by the noble Lady" Sa-<br/>
neval; who has had three sons and one<br/>
daughter to His Majesty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Prince during the last two years<br/>
had occasionally been suffering from<br/>
the disease of rupture, and on the night<br/>
of the 23rd of May 1866, he become<br/>
very ill. His urine was stopped during<br/>
about 30 hours, and about 3 1/2 or 4 A.<br/>
M. on 27th May (civil time) A. C. 1866,<br/>
he expired. He was only 5 years and 7<br/>
month old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His eldest full brother is 12 years<br/>
old, his second eldest brother is 10,<br/>
and his youngest full sister is 4 years<br/>
old.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following Siamese vessels have<br/>
changed hands viz., the Eng Bee, for<br/>
600 catties, the Comet, for 550 catties,<br/>
the Flying Fish, for 290 catties.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are informed the French Cor-<br/>
vette C. Mange, has arrived on an of-<br/>
ficial visit, and to acquire passes for<br/>
the French exploring party who pro-<br/>
pose traveling up the Mei-cong river,<br/>
from Saigon through Siamese, British<br/>
and Chinese territories, as far as Yang-<br/>
so-can to Hankow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
H. I. M. Consul and the Comman-<br/>
dant had an audience of H. E. the<br/>
Kalahome this morning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from Saigon by the Cor-<br/>
vette is most satisfactory, political and<br/>
commercial affairs are improving daily<br/>
under the able Governor Vice-Admiral<br/>
de la Grandiere.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Regatta is talked of for Thurs-<br/>
day next at Paklat, and we hear a<br/>
number of new yachts are entered to<br/>
complete with the Kestral, and from<br/>
what has been ascertained that famous<br/>
craft is very likely to lose her prestige<br/>
at the coming trial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Government has re-<br/>
ceived definite news regarding M. Au-<br/>
baret's return to Bangkok, there ap-<br/>
pears to be no doubt about that gen-<br/>
tleman assuming his official post in Ju-<br/>
ly or August. We hear he is to be<br/>
the bearer of an autograph letter<br/>
from H. I. Master to H. S. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese Consul at Singapore<br/>
decorated his flag staff on the 16th<br/>
Anniversary of H. S. M's Coronation.<br/>
The Penang Consulate was similarly<br/>
adorned.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn another attempt is to be<br/>
made in bringing down teak rafts<br/>
from up country. Three of our re-<br/>
sidents have again left for Rahààng and<br/>
its neighbourhood, to endeavour to<br/>
convey to Bangkok the logs that have<br/>
laid up there these two years, we wish<br/>
them success.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Can the Theatre be Purified?
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In your very interesting "Letter<br/>
from the Fireside" of December 14th,<br/>
1865, you say of the theatre and opera,<br/>
"I wish I could write them down till<br/>
they are made decent,"-—thereby in-<br/>
timating the practicability of purifying<br/>
the theatre and rendering it a proper<br/>
place of amusement. Allow me to<br/>
say that the theatre never can be re-<br/>
formed; it ever was and is a curse to<br/>
the world, and a school of vice and<br/>
corruption. Soon after its establish-<br/>
ment in Athens, the moral dramas of<br/>
Æschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides,<br/>
were found too slow for the vitiating<br/>
tastes of the "fast men" of the time;<br/>
ranker food was demanded; and, the<br/>
sluice-gates once opened, the tide of<br/>
corruption swept on with such over-<br/>
whelming force as to destroy all order.<br/>
The theatre, Rollin declares, was the<br/>
principal cause of the downfall of the<br/>
Athenian State. It became such a<br/>
hot-bed of sin that the more virtuous<br/>
and wise of the heathen,—Plato, Xen-<br/>
ophon, Seneca, and Tacitus,—were<br/>
forced to raise their voices against it<br/>
as the corrupter of youth and the dis-<br/>
grace of the nation. The Lacedæmon-<br/>
ians would not tolerate a theatre with-<br/>
in the republic of Sparta. The celeb-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
rated Tertullian wrote thus: "We<br/>
(Christians) have nothing to do with<br/>
the frenzies of the race-ground, the<br/>
lewdness of the play-house, or the<br/>
barbarities of the bear-garden." Miln-<br/>
er says: "A Christian, renouncing<br/>
the pomps and vanity of this wicked<br/>
world, and yet frequenting the play-<br/>
house, was, with the Christians of the<br/>
first three centuries, a solecism. The<br/>
effusion of the Holy Spirit, during<br/>
those centuries, never admitted those<br/>
amusements at all." It is painful to<br/>
know that the very sin is now so fash-<br/>
ionable that even men of prominent<br/>
standing in the Church sometimes are<br/>
glad to avail themselves of any excuse<br/>
to enter the place dedicated to irrelig-<br/>
ion. Archbishop Tillotson designated<br/>
the theatre as a "mighty reproach to<br/>
Britain,—the devil's chapel, the school<br/>
and nursery of vice and lewdness."<br/>
"An English theatre—the sink of all<br/>
profaneness and debauchery," said<br/>
Wesley. Romanists and Protestants<br/>
have repeated these denunciations, and<br/>
yet the evil survives in as full strength<br/>
as original sin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Its apologists call it the school of<br/>
morals (?), and say that "it holds the<br/>
mirror up to nature;"—yes, and what<br/>
sort of nature? The holy nature<br/>
possessed by man when fresh from the<br/>
hands of his Creator? No: but the<br/>
sullied, perverted nature ruined by<br/>
the arts of Satan. We need no such<br/>
mirror.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thousands have been totally ruined<br/>
—body and soul—by the theatre; but<br/>
has a soul ever been reclaimed from<br/>
crime by its specious wiles? Never;<br/>
not one. Let its friends refute this<br/>
assertion, if they can. Let them fur-<br/>
ther prove the moral tendencies of the<br/>
play-house by the lives and deaths of<br/>
its attaches, and by the character of<br/>
the main portion of its audiences. I<br/>
solemnly believe that no person in-<br/>
structed in the Bible, or who has any<br/>
glimmering of truth, ever enters one<br/>
of these temples of sin without a pain-<br/>
ful consciousness (except his conscience<br/>
be calloused) that he is committing a<br/>
sin, which, if unrepented of in this<br/>
life, must everlastingly condemn him<br/>
before the Judgment Bar of God.<br/>
Oh, what madness to plant thorns for<br/>
a dying pillow! A young friend,<br/>
when on his death-bed, expressed to<br/>
me his bitter contrition for having at-<br/>
tended the theatre, although his mo-<br/>
tive had been improvement in eloca-<br/>
tion and artistic effects. Mistaken<br/>
ideas! as if the art of mimicry could<br/>
be of use in any intellectual or worthy<br/>
calling! But a still deeper infamy is<br/>
his who becomes a volunteer,—a<br/>
DRUMMER,—for Satan, by pertinaci-<br/>
ously enticing another to the play-<br/>
house for the first time, and thus,<br/>
probably, insuring the loss of a soul.<br/>
Of such a case I have lately been told,<br/>
and the instrument was very insigni-<br/>
ficant, too. For the first visit to the<br/>
theatre is often the initiatory step to<br/>
every other species of vice, as, proba-<br/>
bly, nearly every criminal can testify.<br/>
If they that turn many to righteous-<br/>
ness shall shine "as the stars for ever<br/>
and ever," what will be the doom of<br/>
those who lure the ignorant to ruin?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On coming forth from the heat of<br/>
the late conflict, it was natural to hope<br/>
that our brave soldiers would hasten<br/>
to the house of God to offer up devout<br/>
acknowledgments for their preserva-<br/>
tion from death. How many of them<br/>
have so done? On the contrary, al-<br/>
lured by the emissaries the Drum-<br/>
mers—of evil, they have thronged—<br/>
many of them creeping on crutches<br/>
and with half-healed wounds—to those<br/>
plague-houses of the land which were<br/>
never before so numerous or so flour-<br/>
ishing: many of them, poor fellows!<br/>
to renounce the God whom once they<br/>
adored.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The stage, until a comparatively<br/>
recent date, was considered so infam-<br/>
ous that no woman ever appeared upon<br/>
its boards, the female parts being sus-<br/>
tained by boys. Nor is it any better<br/>
now, notwithstanding the pseudo-cen-<br/>
sorship exercised over it. Look over<br/>
some of the favorite stock plays<br/>
(Shakespeare himself will not always<br/>
bear rendition without judicious prun-<br/>
ing), and the majority of them will be<br/>
found to be dissolute, profane, and<br/>
infidel in tendency. It is virtually<br/>
impossible for any person who fre-<br/>
quently witnesses them to help becom-<br/>
ing vitiated in morals, puerile in mind,<br/>
and skeptical of virtue. As for piety,<br/>
it is utterly out of the question for a<br/>
true Christian to be a habitue of the<br/>
theatre. One of the most distinguish-<br/>
ed English tragedians, it is said, re-<br/>
fused to permit his daughter ever to<br/>
enter a theatre for fear of contamina-<br/>
tion. Put a play on the stage destitute<br/>
of immorality, profanity, impure al-<br/>
lusions, or vulgar jests, and the mul-<br/>
titude would scorn it as "flat, stale,<br/>
unprofitable." The earlier English<br/>
plays were, mayhap, more openly im-<br/>
moral—-some of them—-than those of<br/>
our day; but were they so sugar-coat-<br/>
ed, so insidiously subversive of morals,<br/>
so subtly wicked? If religion is ever<br/>
introduced it is in some such low, dis-<br/>
gusting buffoonery as the * *, a bur-<br/>
lesque on decency and common-sense,<br/>
which a church-goer should blush to<br/>
own he had ever seen, if the grace to<br/>
blush remain. When virtue is repre-<br/>
sented, it is in some mawkish, senti-<br/>
mental guise, such as might nauseate<br/>
an astute Fejee Islander, as much as the<br/>
unspeakable grossness of the modern<br/>
ballet would shock his delicacy. In<br/>
the letter alluded to, you also speak of<br/>
a gentleman who accompanied his lady<br/>
friends to a late operatic performance,<br/>
and was so ashamed of himself that<br/>
he could not look the ladies in the face<br/>
while the opera was performing. And<br/>
yet many modest matrons and maidens<br/>
gazed at it all quite unabashed. Had<br/>
he but persevered in going, he, too,<br/>
might in time have become hardened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pardon me if I write with warmth.<br/>
My heart is grieved at the seeming<br/>
indifference of those who ought to<br/>
attack this Python—-of origin far more<br/>
vile than that of its fabled prototype<br/>
of the Nile; at the culpability, in act<br/>
and example, of people who know<br/>
better, and in the pitiful cowardice<br/>
displayed everywhere by laymen who<br/>
ought to rebuke sin fearlessly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No, Mr. Editor, dream not of re-<br/>
forming the play-house; that Utopian<br/>
experiment has been tried, unsuccess-<br/>
fully, for some thousands of years;—-<br/>
it is an irremediable evil. The only<br/>
cure is eradication. These remarks,<br/>
somewhat modified, apply also to the<br/>
opera, which, indeed, to persons of<br/>
more refined tastes and culture, is more<br/>
alluringly dangerous.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
New York Observer.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Government and the
Fenians.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our Government has pursued a very<br/>
sensible and discreet policy with regard<br/>
to the manifestations and alleged purposes<br/>
of Fenianism in this country. There have<br/>
been some calls from the other side of the<br/>
water for it to “put down” Fenianism;<br/>
but it was evident that those who made<br/>
those demands were entirely ignorant of<br/>
the nature and powers of our Government.<br/>
On the other hand there had been with<br/>
some of our citizens an idea that the Gov-<br/>
ernment was winking at what was virtual-<br/>
ly a violation of international comity, that<br/>
it intended in this way to pay England<br/>
back for her violations of neutrality during<br/>
the war. Societies were formed and funds<br/>
were raised in England to aid our rebellion:<br/>
let there now be funds and societies here<br/>
to aid the Irish rebellion. Privateers were<br/>
fitted out at English ports to ravage our<br/>
commerce: let privateers in turn now sail<br/>
from our ports to destroy English com-<br/>
merce. As a Confederate Plenipotentiary<br/>
had a conference with Earl RUSSELL so,<br/>
in return a Fenian “Centre” had an inter-<br/>
view with President JOHNSON. As raids<br/>
for arson and murder upon our soil were<br/>
got up in Canada, so, in like manner, were<br/>
raids for similar purposes in Canada, per-<br/>
mitted to be organised upon our soil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such petty and pitiful argumentation as<br/>
this has been employed by American jour-<br/>
nals, and our Government has thus been<br/>
accused of the most contemptible and<br/>
hypocritical conduct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, it is quite true that there has been<br/>
a great deal of sensational writing in cer-<br/>
tain newspapers for some weeks past about<br/>
a gigantic raid into Canada that had been<br/>
projected by the Fenians, and the Cana-<br/>
dians have been wrought up into a high<br/>
state of excitement by the telegraphic re-<br/>
ports of these stories. But the day on<br/>
which, according to all accounts, the grand<br/>
DENOUMENT was to take place has just<br/>
passed away, and all was as quiet on the<br/>
St. Lawrence as it is on the Potomac. The<br/>
Irishmen in Canada avouched their loyalty<br/>
to the provincial Government; the popula-<br/>
tion in general were under arms; but<br/>
neither an enemy nor his shadow appeared<br/>
on the frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, knowing very well beforehand that<br/>
such would be the case, what would any<br/>
one have had our Government do? It<br/>
could unquestionably have got up a real<br/>
sensation, and probably have precipitated<br/>
a heavy quarrel, by making a tremendous<br/>
show of counteracting Fenian projects. Had<br/>
it issued proclamations prohibiting Fenian<br/>
raids—had it called out the militia to en-<br/>
force our public obligations—had it station-<br/>
ed a heavy military force along the bor-<br/>
der, we have no doubt that amid the pre-<br/>
vailing excitement that would have been<br/>
aroused, and in the divided sentiment of<br/>
the people, the Fenians would have been<br/>
sharp enough to get a few hundred men<br/>
through the lines somewhere, who would<br/>
have pitched into the first place they could<br/>
find in genuine Irish style, and then, when<br/>
once the rumpus had opened, who can tell<br/>
what would have been its developments<br/>
and termination! There is no question<br/>
that under these circumstances the public<br/>
excitement would have become general<br/>
and deep, and Fenianism would quickly<br/>
have gone forth in practical action, had<br/>
our Government gone furiously to work to<br/>
crush its shadow, as some desired. It was<br/>
far the most sensible thing for the Govern-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ment to act precisely as it did. It saw no<br/>
signs of any violation of our neutrality,<br/>
and it certainly could not be expected to<br/>
believe or act upon the windy nonsense<br/>
published by newspaper reporters. As for<br/>
any interference with the organization<br/>
known as Fenians, so long as it violated<br/>
no law of the land, and made no practical<br/>
attempt to disturb our foreign relations,<br/>
no one who comprehends the rudiments of<br/>
our political system could suppose it pos-<br/>
sible. And the same may be said of any<br/>
attempt to prevent the publication of the<br/>
exciting falsehoods about Fenian projects<br/>
and schemes, which have of late been the<br/>
staple in some of our public journals. The<br/>
Emperor of the French took the trouble,<br/>
in his late speech, to draw a comparison<br/>
between his Government and ours; but we<br/>
may take this opportunity of pointing forth<br/>
one of the differences between them, in the<br/>
fact that while his government extin-<br/>
guishes public societies, organizations and<br/>
journals as it sees fit, ours is happily not<br/>
endowed with such powers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So of the so-called Fenian privateers.<br/>
We have heard of some half-a-dozen as<br/>
having been purchased on the lakes and<br/>
in the sea-coast cities. We have heard<br/>
many times, through the sensational sources<br/>
already alluded to, that they were about<br/>
to sail for somewhere to execute some<br/>
portentous Fenian purpose. But we im-<br/>
agine that the Fenian head-centres are<br/>
better informed about the matter; and<br/>
that the apparent unconcern of our au-<br/>
thorities is simply owing to the fact that<br/>
there is no cause whatever for concern.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is not at all likely that there will be any<br/>
call upon our Government for interference<br/>
with Fenian movements in the future.<br/>
The American Government has lately<br/>
shown its determination to prevent rigidly<br/>
all infringements of international law un-<br/>
der all circumstances. CRAWFORD and his<br/>
men, who lately made a breach of our<br/>
neutrality for the purpose of aiding the<br/>
Mexican Republic, with which we sympa-<br/>
thise, were seized and put in close custody,<br/>
to await their trial, and the officers of our<br/>
army who connived with him were also<br/>
summarily, dealt with. Again, in the re-<br/>
cent case of Senor M‘KENNA, charged<br/>
with an attempt to fit out privateers for<br/>
the Chilian service against Spain—the<br/>
Government had him promptly arrested, on<br/>
evidence being furnished, although it is<br/>
sure the sympathies of the American peo-<br/>
ple were not with Spain in her quarrel<br/>
with Chili. In these instances, our Gov-<br/>
ernment gave decisive evidence of the<br/>
policy it will pursue in these matters. But<br/>
there is no likelihood, at present, that it<br/>
will ever be called upon to carry out its<br/>
policy against filibustering or privateering<br/>
on the part of the Fenians.—-NEW YORK<br/>
SEMI-WEEKLY TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MR. GORDON D. RAMSAY.—-The pro-<br/>
vost marshal, against whom charges of<br/>
murder are pending in Jamaica, was<br/>
employed as clerk in a merchant's of-<br/>
fice in Birmingham in the year 1849.<br/>
Pecuniary embarrassment compelled<br/>
him to leave the town, and he enlisted<br/>
in the 17th Lancers, with which regi-<br/>
ment he served in the Crimea. He<br/>
was in the Balaklava charge, and was<br/>
wounded in the leg. He went with<br/>
his regiment to India, and served in<br/>
the Indian mutiny. He afterwards<br/>
got his discharge, and returned to<br/>
Birmingham, where he remained for<br/>
a short time, and then went to Jama-<br/>
ica, where his relations resided. He<br/>
there got into the police force. In<br/>
Birmingham he was remarkable for a<br/>
superabundance of animal spirits, but<br/>
those who knew him say that there<br/>
was nothing cruel in his disposition.<br/>
Lake, the newspaper reporter, was in<br/>
the same office with Ramsay in Bir-<br/>
mingham. He is the son of a Jama-<br/>
ica merchant-—hence his leaving Eng-<br/>
land for that country. He was for<br/>
some time at the Wesleyan College in<br/>
Sheffield. He has some coloured blood<br/>
in his veins. Judge Kerr, who has al-<br/>
so been mentioned in connection with<br/>
the proceedings in Jamaica, is a bro-<br/>
ther-in-law of Mr. Alfred Tennyson,<br/>
the poet laureate.—-Home News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE SCREW STEAMER SHENANDOAH,<br/>
which created such terrible havoc a-<br/>
mongst Federal vessels during the<br/>
American war, has come under the<br/>
hammer of Messrs. Kellock and Co.,<br/>
shipbrokers, at Liverpool, and was<br/>
sold for £ 15,750, the purchaser being<br/>
Mr. M. I. Wilson, ship-owner, of Li-<br/>
verpool. When this vessel was bought<br/>
for the Confederate government, two<br/>
or three years ago, she was sold for<br/>
£ 35,000.—-Home News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_2_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rules for Study.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somebody has written these rules to be<br/>
observed by students.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1. Learn one thing at a time.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2. Learn that thing well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3. Learn its connection, as far as pos-<br/>
sible, with other things.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
4. Believe that to know every thing of<br/>
something is better than to know some-<br/>
thing of every thing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Toil is the price of sleep and ap-<br/>
petite of health and enjoyment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Those who are careful to avoid of-<br/>
fending others, are not apt to take of-<br/>
fence themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Piracy in China waters.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(London and China Express.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,—-In the last China, Siam, and<br/>
Straits papers I observe that reports<br/>
of piracies still continue to occupy<br/>
their columns. There seems to be no<br/>
abatement of the evil. On the con-<br/>
trary, it continues, to be as rife, and, if<br/>
anything, more glaring than hitherto.<br/>
The British Government has gone to<br/>
a great deal of trouble and expense in<br/>
its endeavours to suppress it, but in<br/>
vain. Piracy must and will continue<br/>
to exist and flourish so long as the ex-<br/>
cuse for every junk and boat trading<br/>
in the eastern seas going heavily arm-<br/>
ed and doubly manned exists. All ef-<br/>
forts to suppress piracy must be futile<br/>
while the difficulty of distinguishing<br/>
between pirates and legitimate traders<br/>
lasts. This difficulty will continue un-<br/>
til the Siamese, Chinese, and petty<br/>
chieftains in the Eastern Archipelago<br/>
be prevailed upon to agree to a total<br/>
disarmament of the trading craft un-<br/>
der their respective control. This ef-<br/>
fected, a united marine police—-say<br/>
men-of-war of every nation trading to<br/>
the East-—should make a simultan-<br/>
eous search for armed junks and prahus,<br/>
and exterminate all found in the pos-<br/>
session of offensive weapons. The fact<br/>
of being found armed after the pro-<br/>
mulgation of sufficient notice of the<br/>
law being taken as prima facie proof<br/>
of guilt. This seems to me to be the<br/>
only safe and certain remedy for an<br/>
evil the magnitude of which cannot be<br/>
comprehended by those who do not<br/>
know what an exorbitant tax on com-<br/>
merce the arming and manning of ev-<br/>
ery real trading junk and prahu is.<br/>
This indirect impost on trade would<br/>
be removed at once by the remedy<br/>
which I have suggested, and the hon-<br/>
est trader of every tribe and nation be<br/>
benefited. This matter should be press-<br/>
ed on the attention of the Chinese<br/>
and Siamese Governments without de-<br/>
lay. It is absurd in the Peking Gov-<br/>
ernment to expect British gunboats to<br/>
continue any longer a thankless and<br/>
apparently interminable crusade a-<br/>
gainst every pirate who can afford to<br/>
bribe the mandarins for traders' papers.<br/>
It should be told that such assistance<br/>
as has hitherto been rendered in the<br/>
suppression of piracy must be with-<br/>
held, unless it takes measures whereby<br/>
the trader and the pirate may be dis-<br/>
tinguished, and the latter brought to<br/>
justice. And the impossibility of dis-<br/>
tinguishing between the two (except<br/>
on chance occasions) renders it imper-<br/>
ative that a general disarmament<br/>
should be proclaimed and carried out<br/>
with the least possible delay. Once<br/>
take away the excuse for going armed<br/>
and make the mere possession of weap-<br/>
ons of offence proof of guilt which<br/>
would entail instant destruction, and a<br/>
comparatively small naval force will<br/>
sweep piracy from the Eastern and<br/>
China seas. By last accounts from<br/>
the East we are informed that a<br/>
scheme has been proposed to form an<br/>
Eastern Trinity Board to supply bea-<br/>
cons and lighthouses on the dangerous<br/>
coasts of China and Japan, the said<br/>
board to derive its authority from the<br/>
whole of the treaty powers, and its<br/>
funds from a tax levied on ships trad-<br/>
ing to China and Japan, and payable<br/>
at the port of entry. This scheme,<br/>
you say is, in your opinion, "practic-<br/>
able." I am of the same opinion, and<br/>
with you wish it success. Its benefit<br/>
to trade will, however, be but small,<br/>
compared to the results derivable from<br/>
that which I have suggested.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every one in the least acquainted<br/>
with the East knows that the arma-<br/>
ments of native craft cost as much as<br/>
the craft themselves; while the ex-<br/>
pense of manning them under the pre-<br/>
sent system is in all cases doubled, in<br/>
many trebled. The recommendation<br/>
given in your last London and China<br/>
Telegraph, in the article headed<br/>
"Straits of Malacca," for trading ves-<br/>
sels to go more heavily armed if they<br/>
wish immunity from attack, cannot, I<br/>
fear, be successfully carried out. Hon-<br/>
est traders cannot, in point of arma-<br/>
ment, hope, unless at a ruinous cost,<br/>
to compete with pirates; whereas the<br/>
remedy which I suggest, if carried in-<br/>
to effect, is a clear gain of at least 100<br/>
per cent. to the honest native, and<br/>
leaves to the pirate but little hope of<br/>
pursuing his guilty calling for any<br/>
great length of time in the very teeth<br/>
of native and foreign gunboats, as he<br/>
now does. The importance of my<br/>
subject must be my excuse for its pro-<br/>
lixity.—-Yours sincerely,-—NAUTICUS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Public Meetings.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On home topics Reform is still the prin-<br/>
cipal one. Out of Parliament no move-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ment of any great importance has taken<br/>
place. The debate on the second reading<br/>
of the Bill was preceded by a meeting of<br/>
the Liberal party at Earl Russell's official<br/>
residence, at which the final explanations<br/>
of the Government policy were made.<br/>
Of course complete unanimity prevailed,<br/>
as those members of the party who intend-<br/>
ed to support Lord Grosvenor's amend-<br/>
ment stayed away or remained silent. Earl<br/>
Russell spoke for above an hour in sup-<br/>
port of the Bill, and stated that after the<br/>
second reading Government would speed-<br/>
ily lay their Bill for Redistribution on<br/>
the table of the House of Commons, and<br/>
that they pledged themselves to stand or<br/>
fall by it as absolutely as by the Franchise<br/>
Bill. He also stated that in his opinion<br/>
it was just and expedient that the same<br/>
Parliament which passed the Franchise<br/>
Bill should also pass the Bill for the Re-<br/>
distribution of Seats. A meeting of Lord<br/>
Derby's supporters also took place at the<br/>
residence of the Marquis of Salisbury,<br/>
attended by a large body of Conservative<br/>
members, who were unanimous in their<br/>
determination to support the amendment.<br/>
More public meetings have been held, the<br/>
most noticeable being those at the Man-<br/>
sion-house, Westminster, Finsbury, and<br/>
St. Martin's hall. At the latter Lord<br/>
Elcho gallantly faced the noisy crowd of<br/>
which it was composed in order to vin-<br/>
dicate himself from the charges which<br/>
have been brought against him of having<br/>
vilified the working classes. At first the<br/>
meeting refused to hear him, but Mr.<br/>
Thomas Hughes got up and declared that<br/>
if Lord Elcho was not listened to he would<br/>
not speak himself; upon this his lordship<br/>
was allowed to go on, and eventually his<br/>
speech was loudly cheered. The press<br/>
generally condemns the measure; of the<br/>
respectable daily journals (among which<br/>
it is needless to say Mr. Bright's organ<br/>
cannot be classed) all but two—the DAILY<br/>
NEWS and the GLOBE—-are against it;<br/>
and the GLOBE, being avowedly a Minis-<br/>
terial organ, cannot fairly be counted as<br/>
an exponent of public opinion. No very<br/>
unusual excitement was observable out of<br/>
doors on the day of the debate on the<br/>
second reading, and we need hardly say<br/>
that the working classes had too much<br/>
good sense to follow up the mischievous<br/>
suggestion thrown out as to their assembl-<br/>
ing in thousands from Charing-cross to<br/>
Palace-yard. In Palace-yard, however,<br/>
there was a fair sprinkling of lookers-on,<br/>
and by 3 o'clock some three or four hund-<br/>
red were waiting about. Mr. Fawcett,<br/>
as he was led slowly along Palace-yard by<br/>
a friend, was the first Liberal member<br/>
who elicited any expression of opinion<br/>
from the people. He was very warmly<br/>
cheered, and in fact his reception was<br/>
almost equal to that of Mr. Gladstone<br/>
himself. This applause naturally drew<br/>
together an increased number of spec-<br/>
tators, on the old metropolitan principle<br/>
that people stop to see what other people<br/>
have assembled for. The term "assembl-<br/>
ed," however, conveys a rather exag-<br/>
gerated notion of the number who actually<br/>
waited. At no time were there more than<br/>
between 600 or 700, not much more than<br/>
is usual on a "Budget night." Mr. Goschen,<br/>
the Duke of Argyll, Mr. Layard, and<br/>
Mr. T. Hughes were all recognised as<br/>
they drove up, and were warmly applaud-<br/>
ed, not by cheers as much as by clapping<br/>
of hands. Mr. Gladstone also was cheered<br/>
with great enthusiasm as he drove past to<br/>
the Speaker's entrance. Beyond these<br/>
few tokens of passing feeling there is<br/>
nothing to record of what was expected<br/>
to be a sort of great outdoor Reform<br/>
demonstration.-—L. & C. Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
In the House of Commons the second<br/>
reading of the Franchise Bill was moved<br/>
by Mr. Gladstone on the 12th instant;<br/>
whereupon Lord Grosvenor brought for-<br/>
ward his Amendment in a comprehensive<br/>
but somewhat feeble speech. Lord Stan-<br/>
ley, on the other hand, seconded the<br/>
motion in an address which will long be<br/>
remembered as an example of clear and<br/>
consistent reasoning, vigorous energy and<br/>
sincere liberality. He ruthlessly exposed<br/>
the blindness and folly of a piecemeal<br/>
reform of the representation, and with<br/>
masterly logic showed that no measure<br/>
was deserving of support unless it em-<br/>
braced at once not only the franchise, but<br/>
a careful redistribution of seats and a<br/>
rectification of the boundaries. An ani-<br/>
mated debate ensued, during which the<br/>
Marquis of Hartington made a weak effort<br/>
to reply to Lord Stanley, but rather lost<br/>
ground than otherwise. The second night's<br/>
debate was dull, with the exception of<br/>
two speeches—those of Sir Bulwer Lyt-<br/>
ton and Mr. J. Stuart Mill. The former<br/>
was more than usually eloquent, and his<br/>
address was attentively listened to by a<br/>
crowded house. Mr. Mill is so far the<br/>
only supporter of the Government who<br/>
has made anything like a consistent reply<br/>
to Lord Stanley, but even his speech,<br/>
although a masterpiece in its way, had<br/>
little effect on the cogent arguments of<br/>
his opponent. At the preliminary meet-<br/>
ing of the Liberal party it was whispered<br/>
that some Earl Russell only counted on<br/>
a majority of about thirty; the course of<br/>
the debate so far connot fail to have a<br/>
diminishing effect on this small number,<br/>
and if there be any truth in a rumour<br/>
lately current, to the effect that Lord<br/>
Grosvenor's Amendment was drawn up<br/>
by no less a person than Earl Grey,-—then<br/>
the chances for and against the second<br/>
reading of the Bill seem pretty evenly<br/>
balanced,—-with perhaps a slight prepon-<br/>
derance AGAINST.-—L. & C. Express.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE ESCAPE OF STEPHENS.—-The Head<br/>
Centre, who is still in Paris has there<br/>
given the following statement relative to<br/>
his capture and escape:—-" My arrest took<br/>
place because I wished it. For many<br/>
hours I knew that the police were on my<br/>
traces, and it was my pleasure to be ar-<br/>
rested in order to prove that I could es-<br/>
cape with the greatest ease. While in<br/>
prison I was treated with the utmost re-<br/>
gard. I wanted for nothing, and in this<br/>
respect I cannot too highly praise the<br/>
English Government. But it was absolutely<br/>
necessary to depart. I had expressed my<br/>
desire to do so to a person of whom I was<br/>
sure, with whom an unexpected circum-<br/>
stance put me in communication, and the<br/>
prison doors, so to speak, stood open be-<br/>
fore me. I don't know whether any one<br/>
meant to stop me, but around me I saw<br/>
only accomplices. 'But once out of prison,'<br/>
observed a listener, 'how did you manage<br/>
to leave Ireland?' 'Once out of prison I<br/>
fled to the country. Money and a revolver<br/>
were given me. I then heard that a reward<br/>
of £40,000 was offered for me, and that<br/>
any one who discovered me was to bring<br/>
me to Dublin dead or alive. I remained,<br/>
up to the time of my getting on board<br/>
ship, in the country, living during the<br/>
day in a hut, and going out at night to<br/>
reach another. In every place where I<br/>
took refuge I was well known. Indeed,<br/>
I was expected there. Notwithstanding<br/>
the large sum offered by the Irish Govern-<br/>
ment for my apprehension, nobody ven-<br/>
tured to inform against me; and this<br/>
single fact proves that Ireland was at my<br/>
disposal.' 'And now what are your plans?'<br/>
'I am going to America for an army of<br/>
200,000 men who are expecting me, and<br/>
I will return with them to deliver Ireland,<br/>
my country, from the British yoke."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
LONDON & CHINA EXPRESS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Robert Bloomfield and his
"Farmer's boy."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This true poet of nature was born in<br/>
1766, at a small village in Suffolk. His<br/>
father died in the same year, leaving his<br/>
widow with five other children besides Ro-<br/>
bert. To obtain a maintenance, she opened<br/>
a school, and taught her own children the<br/>
elements of reading, along with those of<br/>
her neighbours. Besides this education,<br/>
Bloomfield was taught to write for two<br/>
or three months at a school in the town<br/>
of Ixworth. At the age of eleven, he<br/>
went to work upon his uncle's farm, re-<br/>
ceiving only his board for his labour. In<br/>
his fifteenth year, he was removed to London,<br/>
to join his two brothers in making shoes<br/>
in a garret in Bell Alley, Coleman Street.<br/>
At this time he read about as many hours<br/>
every week as boys generally spend in<br/>
play. He next wrote a few verses, which<br/>
were printed in the LONDON MAGAZINE;<br/>
and he was observed to read with much<br/>
avidity a copy of Thomson's SEASONS,<br/>
which first inspired Bloomfield with the<br/>
thought of composing a long poem, such<br/>
as the FARMER'S BOY, the idea being<br/>
favoured by a visit of two months to his<br/>
native district, where he had often held<br/>
the plough, driven a team, and tended<br/>
sheep. He returned to London and shoe-<br/>
making; but some years elapsed before<br/>
he produced his FARMER'S BOY, which he<br/>
composed while he sat at work in his<br/>
garret in Bell Alley, with six or seven<br/>
other workmen; and nearly six hundred<br/>
lines were completed before Bloomfield<br/>
committed a line to paper. The poem<br/>
was published in 1800, was translated in-<br/>
to French and Italian, and partly into<br/>
Latin; 26,000 copies were sold in three<br/>
years; and it was the dearest of the low-<br/>
ly-born poet's gratifications, when his<br/>
book was printed, to present a copy of it<br/>
to his mother, to whom he then had it in<br/>
his power, for the first time, to pay a vis-<br/>
it, after twelve years' absence from his<br/>
native village.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bloomfield was a little boy for his age.<br/>
"When I met him and his mother at the<br/>
inn" (in town), says his brother, "he<br/>
strutted before us, just as he came from<br/>
keeping sheep, hogs, &c., his shoes filled<br/>
full of stumps in the heels. He, looking<br/>
about him, slipped up; his nails were un-<br/>
used to a flat pavement. I remember<br/>
viewing him as he scampered up,—how<br/>
small he was. I hardly thought that lit-<br/>
tle fatherless boy would be one day known<br/>
and esteemed by the most learned, the<br/>
most respected, the wisest, and the best<br/>
men of the kingdom."—SCHOOL-DAYS OF<br/>
EMINENT MEN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Beaver.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MODEL TEACHER FOR MEN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So much that is wonderful has been re-<br/>
corded of the beaver, that intelligent<br/>
writers have not scrupled to express a<br/>
belief, that it possesses but little of that<br/>
surprising sagacity and skill ascribed to it.<br/>
Mr. Joseph Sansum, of New York, gives<br/>
an account of the Canadian beaver, which<br/>
confirms the general character given of<br/>
their habits and economy. He tells us,<br/>
that in the recesses of Canadian forests,<br/>
UNDISTURBED BY MAN, the beaver is a<br/>
practical EXAMPLE of ALMOST EVERY VIR-<br/>
TUE, he is a pattern of conjugal fidelity<br/>
and paternal care ; laborious, frugal, hon-<br/>
est, and ingenious. He submits to Gov-<br/>
ernment, for the benefits of association;<br/>
but is never known to make depredations<br/>
upon his weaker neighbours. Wherever<br/>
a number of them come together, they<br/>
combine to perform the common business<br/>
of constructing their habitation; appar-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
estly acting under the most intelligent<br/>
design, no contention or disagreement be-<br/>
ing ever observed among them. When<br/>
a sufficient number are collected to form<br/>
a town, the public business is first attend-<br/>
ed to; and as they are amphibious anim-<br/>
als, provision is made for spending their<br/>
time, occasionally both in and out of the<br/>
water, so that they seek a situation which<br/>
is adapted to both these purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lake or pond, and sometimes a run-<br/>
ning stream, is pitched upon. If it be a<br/>
lake or pond, the water in it is always<br/>
deep enough to admit of their swimming<br/>
under the ice. If it be a stream, it is al-<br/>
ways such a stream as will form a pond,<br/>
that shall be convenient for their purpose;<br/>
and they never fix upon a situation that<br/>
will not answer their views. Their next<br/>
business is to construct a dam, this is al-<br/>
ways placed in the most convenient part<br/>
of the stream; the form of it is either<br/>
straight, rounding, or angular, as the pe-<br/>
culiarities of the situation require; and<br/>
no human ingenuity could improve their<br/>
labours in this respect. The materials<br/>
they use are wood and earth; they choose<br/>
a tree on the river side, which will readily<br/>
fall across the stream; and some of them<br/>
apply themselves to cut it through with<br/>
their teeth: others cut down smaller trees,<br/>
which they divide into equal and conven-<br/>
ient lengths, some drag these pieces to<br/>
the brink of the river, and others swim<br/>
with them to the spot where the dam is<br/>
forming: others are engaged in sinking<br/>
one end of these stakes; and as many<br/>
more in raising, and securing the other<br/>
ends of them; some are employed, in car-<br/>
rying on the plastering part of the work;<br/>
the earth is brought in their mouths,<br/>
formed into mortar with their feet and<br/>
tails, and spread over the intervals be-<br/>
tween the stakes; saplings, and twigs be-<br/>
ing interwoven with the mud of the<br/>
stream.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Where two or three hundred beavers<br/>
are united, these dams are from six to<br/>
twelve feet thick at the bottom; at the<br/>
top, not more than two or three. In that<br/>
part of the dam which is opposed to the<br/>
current, the stakes are placed obliquely;<br/>
but on that side where the water is to fall<br/>
over, they are placed perpendicularly.<br/>
These dams are sometimes a hundred feet<br/>
in length, and always of the exact height<br/>
which will answer their purpose. The<br/>
ponds thus formed, sometimes cover five<br/>
or six hundred acres; and to preserve<br/>
the dams against inundation, sluices near<br/>
the middle are left for the redundant<br/>
water to pass off.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the public works are completed,<br/>
the beavers separate into small compan-<br/>
ies, to build cabins or houses for them-<br/>
selves. These are build upon piles, on<br/>
the borders of the pond. They are of<br/>
an oval construction, resembling a bee-<br/>
hive; and vary from four to ten feet in<br/>
diameter, according to the number of<br/>
families they are to accommodate.<br/>
These dwellings are never less than two<br/>
stories high, generally three; and some-<br/>
times they contain four apartments.<br/>
The walls are from two to three feet<br/>
thick, formed of the same materials as<br/>
the dams. On the inside, they are made<br/>
smooth; but they are left rough without,<br/>
and are impenetrable to rain. The low-<br/>
er story is two feet high, the second is<br/>
formed by a floor of sticks covered with<br/>
mud, and the upper terminates with an<br/>
arched roof. Through each floor there is<br/>
a passage, and the uppermost is always<br/>
above the level of the water. Each of<br/>
these huts has two doors, one on the land<br/>
side, to admit of their going out that<br/>
way; another under the water, and be-<br/>
low where it freezes, to preserve the com-<br/>
munication of the beavers with the pond.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No association can appear more happy,<br/>
or be better regulated, than the tribe of<br/>
beavers. In September, they lay up their<br/>
winter's stock, which consists of bark and<br/>
the tender twigs of trees. Then com-<br/>
mences the season of repose; during the<br/>
winter they remain within, every one en-<br/>
joying the fruits of his own labour, with-<br/>
out pilfering from any other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Towards spring, the females bring<br/>
forth their young. Soon after, the male<br/>
retires to gather firs and vegetables, but<br/>
the dam remains at home. The male re-<br/>
turns occasionally, but not to tarry, until<br/>
the end of the year; should however, any<br/>
injury happen to the works, the society<br/>
are soon collected by some unknown<br/>
means, and join all their forces to repair<br/>
the damages.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When an enemy approaches their vil-<br/>
lage, the beaver who perceives the stran-<br/>
ger, strikes on the water with his tail, to<br/>
give notice of danger; and the whole<br/>
tribe instantly plunges into the water.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a state of nature, undisturbed by<br/>
barbarous and selfish man, this provident<br/>
animal lives fifteen or twenty years, and<br/>
prepares the way for several generations,<br/>
by adapting his dwellings to the increase<br/>
of his family.—BRITISH WORKMAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A New Island.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A new island began to rise above the<br/>
level of the sea in the Bay of Thera<br/>
(Santorin) on the 4th Feb., and in<br/>
five days it attained the height of from<br/>
130ft. to 150ft., with a length of up-<br/>
wards of 350ft. and a breadth of 100ft.<br/>
It continues to increase, and consists of<br/>
a rusty black metallic lava, very heavy,<br/>
and resembling half smelted scoria<br/>
which has boiled up from a furnace. It<br/>
contains many small whitish semi-trans-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
parent particles, disseminated through<br/>
the mass like quartz or felspar. The<br/>
shape of Santoriu on the map gives an<br/>
idea of its volcanic formation. It ap-<br/>
pears to be the eastern half of an im-<br/>
mense crater, stretching in a semi-<br/>
circle round a bay in which the sea<br/>
now covers the seat of volcanic action.<br/>
The destruction of the south western<br/>
rim of the crater let in the water. The<br/>
north-western portion is the island of<br/>
Therassia. The bay is about six geogra-<br/>
phical miles long, and upwards of four<br/>
broad. Near the centre there are three<br/>
islands which have risen from the sea<br/>
during eruptions recorded in history<br/>
—-Palaia, Nea, and Mikro Kaimene,<br/>
or Old, New, and Little Burnt (Island),<br/>
naming them in their order from west<br/>
to east. The present eruption com-<br/>
menced on the 31st January. A noise<br/>
like volleys of artillery was heard, but<br/>
without any earthquake. On the fol-<br/>
lowing day flames issued from the sea,<br/>
in a part of the bay called Vulkanos,<br/>
where the water is always discoloured<br/>
and impregnated with sulphur from<br/>
abundant springs at the bottom. The<br/>
flames rose at intervals to the height<br/>
of 15ft., and were seen at times to is-<br/>
sue from the south-western part of Nea<br/>
Kaimene. That island was soon rent<br/>
by a deep fissure, and the southern part<br/>
sank considerably. On Feb. 4th the<br/>
eruptions become more violent and the<br/>
sea more disturbed. Gas forced itself<br/>
up from the depths with terrific noise,<br/>
resembling the bursting of a steam<br/>
boiler; flames arose at intervals, and<br/>
white smoke, rising steadily, formed<br/>
an immense column, crowned with a<br/>
curled capital of dark heavy clouds.<br/>
The new island was visible next morn-<br/>
ing, increasing sensibly to the eye as<br/>
it rose out of the sea at no great dis-<br/>
tance to the south of Nea Kaimene.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Maulmain Advertiser.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—The Queen of England is now so-<br/>
vereign over, it is said, one continent,<br/>
100 peninsulas, 600 promontories, 1,000<br/>
lakes, 2,000 rivers and 10,000 islands.<br/>
Her subjects number more than 150,000,-<br/>
000. By a wave of her hand she can<br/>
summon an army of 500,000 soldiers and<br/>
a navy of 1,000 ships of war and 100,000<br/>
sailors. The Assyrian empire was not<br/>
so wealthy as that of Great Britian; the<br/>
Roman empire was not so populous; the<br/>
Persian empire was not so extensive; the<br/>
Arabian empire was not so powerful; the<br/>
Carthaginian empire was not so much<br/>
dreaded, the Spanish empire not so wide-<br/>
ly diffused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—'Jeannie, it's a solemn thing to get<br/>
married." "I know it, father," re-<br/>
plied the sensible damsel, "but it's a<br/>
great deal solemnner not to "
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">56</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Garden</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">77</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">82</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">80</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">59</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">picul.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7 1/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">185</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">21</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON</td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>with Seed</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Koral</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">700</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">215</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34 1/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>80 t p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>40 t p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2 3/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>50 t p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW</td>
 <td>SEED</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"5 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plabeng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaalit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mussels</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">205 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">175 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">155 P 100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">150</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Ticals weight</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—-On SingaPore 1s. 13¾ 10d.<br/>
Hongkong 2 % cent discount 80 d. a. Lon-<br/>
don 2s. 9¾d. 6. m. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The opening of the Mint.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(FROM THE "DAILY PRESS" OF MAY 8.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the Mint yesterday morning, a small<br/>
round disc of silver was presented to one<br/>
of the coining presses by Lady MACDON-<br/>
NELL, and instantly returned by that in-<br/>
telligent machine, as the first new dollar<br/>
at the Hongkong Mint. Other pieces of<br/>
silver have doubtless been impressed with<br/>
the approved device before now, but<br/>
these were unimportant trial dollars.<br/>
That coin of which we speak is the first<br/>
legitimate new dollar, the eldest child of<br/>
the Mint; despite those unorthodox pieces<br/>
of money, its brothers and sisters, that<br/>
have seen the light before their time.<br/>
Truth to tell, it came out oily, but was<br/>
notwithstanding, the herald of the new<br/>
currency, was wiped clean with much<br/>
tenderness and respect, handed round<br/>
and admired as a remarkably fine child,<br/>
and carefully pocketed by His Excellen-<br/>
cy. No public ceremony took place in<br/>
honor of commencing business. To en-<br/>
tertain a crowd of visitors in a build-<br/>
ing intended for work of an important<br/>
kind, is a troublesome task at the best,<br/>
but to do this before the routine of work<br/>
has become familiar to the staff would<br/>
have been a more embarrassing duty than<br/>
could fairly have been thrown on the of-<br/>
ficials of the Mint at the outset of their<br/>
career. The GOVERNOR therefore, Lady<br/>
MACDONNELL, and Mr. MERCER, accom-<br/>
panied by Mr. STEWART, and one or two<br/>
others, present as a matter of business,<br/>
composed the whole party which was yes-<br/>
terday escorted round the building by<br/>
Captain KINDER.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An establishment like the Mint is one<br/>
which gives material for descriptive writ-<br/>
ing in such extraordinary abundance that<br/>
it is not easy to break from the subject,<br/>
but we do not now wish to repeat a nar-<br/>
rative already told or weary the readers<br/>
with scientific details that may not be in-<br/>
teresting to all alike. The Mint is now<br/>
A FAIT ACCOMPLI, no longer a project of<br/>
uncertain prospects but an active business<br/>
the initial success of which has proved<br/>
extraordinarily great. As we have said<br/>
before, there has been a rush of custom to<br/>
the Mint. The bankers may keep their<br/>
opinions in reserve and talk about sending<br/>
some bullion as an experiment if they<br/>
like, but it must be admitted, when<br/>
$2,000,000 are brought to the premises<br/>
on the first day, that they seem inclined<br/>
to try the experiment on a large scale.<br/>
We have often in these columns spoken<br/>
of the Mint in no very friendly spirit,<br/>
because it has swallowed up a reserve<br/>
fund which was not devoted to that pur-<br/>
pose by the wish of the colony, and<br/>
people who are economical enough to<br/>
save money ought,—-not to speak extra-<br/>
vagantly,—-to have a voice in its disposal.<br/>
But now we HAVE the Mint and it is<br/>
clearly wise to make the best of it, clear-<br/>
ly also the most straight-forward course<br/>
to acknowledge that according to all ap-<br/>
pearances, it is possible to make of it, a<br/>
very good Mint indeed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Yokohama.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DEATH OF MR. MACDONALD.—-It is<br/>
with deep regret that we announce the<br/>
death of Mr. Macdonald, first assistant<br/>
to Her Majesty's Embassy in Japan. For<br/>
some time past he has not been well, as<br/>
was evident to the other members of leg-<br/>
ation, rather by occasional incoherence<br/>
and a non-disposition to speak except in<br/>
monosyllables, which was quite foreign<br/>
to his ordinary habit. On Wednesday<br/>
he was at a pic-nic, and nothing at all re-<br/>
markable was observable—-but on Thurs-<br/>
day morning, Dr. Willis, who had watched<br/>
his changed manner for several days told<br/>
him, that he had been expecting that he<br/>
would consult him, but as he did not, he<br/>
thought it his duty to speak to him, and<br/>
urge that he should seek some change of<br/>
air and scene. In this Mr. Macdonald<br/>
seemed to acquiesce, and probably would<br/>
have either taken a trip home, or paid a<br/>
visit to his old chief Sir Rutherford Al-<br/>
cock at Pekin. He intended to go to<br/>
Yeddo that morning, but felt so tired<br/>
from the preceding day's pic-nic—-that<br/>
he postponed his journey. About a quar-<br/>
ter past five on the same afternoon, he<br/>
was walking with two friends near the<br/>
store of Messrs. McKechnie & Co., when<br/>
he was seized with paralysis—and having<br/>
been first taken into McKechnie's he was<br/>
immediately after removed to the Com-<br/>
mercial Hotel. Dr. Willis and Dr. Jenkins<br/>
were speedily with him, and did every-<br/>
thing that could be done for him—-but<br/>
from the first it was evident there was<br/>
very little hope of recovery. His right<br/>
side was completely paralysed—-and to all<br/>
enquiries, there was but one reply—-that<br/>
the worst fears might be entertained. Sir<br/>
Harry Parkes and Mr. Myburgh and sev-<br/>
eral gentlemen of the legation were with<br/>
him very quickly, and remained for a<br/>
considerable time. The Rev. Mr. Bailey<br/>
also arrived the instant he heard of the<br/>
seizure, but found Mr. Macdonald quite<br/>
unconscious. He remained throughout<br/>
the night that he might be of service<br/>
either in his vocation or otherwise assist<br/>
Dr. Willis and other watchers. The suf-<br/>
ferer rallied slightly about 6 A.M. on Fri-<br/>
day—-but never fully regained conscious-<br/>
ness, and soon relapsed into his former<br/>
hopeless condition. He died at 4.20 P.M.<br/>
on Friday. He was 28 years of age—-<br/>
and was a native of Inverness, although<br/>
principally brought up in London. He<br/>
entered the diplomatic service in 1859,<br/>
and was much esteemed, not only for his<br/>
abilities and business like habits, but for<br/>
His gentleman like demesnour and thor-<br/>
ough amiability of character.—-JAPAN<br/>
HERALD.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Chefoo.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Recent advices confirm the rumours<br/>
received vis Hankow some weeks ago, to<br/>
the effect that Mr. M. C. Morrison was<br/>
murdered while on his way from Peking<br/>
to Hankow overland. Our correspon-<br/>
dent considers that the report still re-<br/>
quires confirmation, although the native<br/>
officials appear to believe it.—-O. T. R.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Punjab.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Punjab is in high spirits at the con-<br/>
cession of that increase in the pay of gov-<br/>
ernment officers to the level of the salaries<br/>
elsewhere, which ought to have been made<br/>
long ago. Once more the Punjab will be<br/>
the province most coveted by the best<br/>
men in India. It used to be so in the<br/>
Dalhousie period, when the North West<br/>
was stripped of its most promising civilians.<br/>
Since that time, owing to delay in the in-<br/>
crease of pay and the comparative absence<br/>
of prizes, the Punjab has rather been a<br/>
nursery for Oudh and Central India. We<br/>
trust that we may take this increase as the<br/>
first instalment of justice to the middle<br/>
and lower ranks of all classes of officials.<br/>
Is it the dawn of a new and more generous<br/>
regime, when Government will assume its<br/>
old position during the reign of the Court<br/>
of Directors, of a liberal master exacting<br/>
hard work but paying good wages? Let<br/>
Mr. Massey reply, for Earl de Grey will<br/>
doubtless sanction liberal recommenda-<br/>
tions from the Government of India in<br/>
spite of his council and secretaries, who<br/>
consider India salaries enormous when<br/>
compared with their own and think noth-<br/>
ing of the rise of prices, the ravages of<br/>
climate and the bitterness of separation.<br/>
In the Punjab living is now almost as dear<br/>
as in Calcutta. Notwithstanding splen-<br/>
did harvests the price of all agricultural<br/>
produce is dearer than in the year of the<br/>
great famine, owing to the export of<br/>
wheat and all the finer grains in enormous<br/>
quantities to Bombay. A careful com-<br/>
pilation of the records of trade and prices<br/>
at Lahore shews that, but for the impro-<br/>
tation of coarse pulses from Malwa, the<br/>
people there would starve. But the<br/>
peasantry must be enriched by the dif-<br/>
ference between the dear grain exported<br/>
and the cheap grain which takes its place.<br/>
MAULMAIN ADVERTISER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have received direct by<br/>
the last Overland Mail<br/>
and the "Fairy" from London, a<br/>
well assorted stock of all kinds of<br/>
liquids, drygoods; also syrups,<br/>
provisions as conserves, butter;<br/>
victoria-cuddy-swan-fancy-pic nic<br/>
biscuits; French and English tea<br/>
and gingerbread; cakes, crack-<br/>
nells, etc. etc. etc. etc,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok June 7th 1866. {{< news/indent2 >}} (3 w.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE United States Consulate,<br/>
has been removed from the<br/>
Siamese Public Buildings to Kawk<br/>
Kwai, near the residence of Paul<br/>
Pickenpack Esq.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. M. HOOD.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-24_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE fast sailing Chinese rig-<br/>
ged boat "Helena" of about<br/>
30 tons register, or 500 piculs<br/>
capacity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This vessel has just undergone<br/>
a though repair, and is newly<br/>
sheathed with yellow metal, is<br/>
well found in anchors and chains,<br/>
has a good boat, sails in good order,<br/>
is fitted with patent blocks, and<br/>
can be used without any further<br/>
expense.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Apply to, A. F. SANDBAG & Co.
Bangkok 18th May 1866 (S. w.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE the Undersigned, herewith notify all<br/>
Ship Masters and owners interested,<br/>
that we will henceforth, only acknowledge<br/>
those Pilots, who hold their Licences in<br/>
accordance with the Port Regulations from<br/>
the Harbor Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Agents for the Hamburg and Bremen<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 21st January 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
Underwriters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-11-01_8_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Company.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretary: Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared to<br/>
accept risks up to $25,000 on first class sailing<br/>
vessels, and $10,000 on steamboats, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-05_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two mi'es<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,isvirtuallybrought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted) and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
"Chow Phya" is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
