---
linkTitle: 'August 23rd, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - August 23rd, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); August 23rd'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 56
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, August 23d, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 33.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London 5th JULY.—-The Moniteur<br/>
of to-day officially announced that Aus-<br/>
tria had ceded Venetia to France, and<br/>
had accepted the mediation of the Em-<br/>
peror Napoleon for the conclusion of<br/>
peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications have been addressed<br/>
by the Emperor to the Prussian and Italian<br/>
Governments in order to obtain an armis-<br/>
tice between the belligerents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the last battle fought in Bohemia<br/>
the Prussians captured 14,000 prisoners<br/>
and 116 guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
5th JULY.—-In last battle in Bohemia,<br/>
Prussians captured 14,000 Prisoners and<br/>
116 Guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"London, July 6th, (morning):—-<br/>
Garibaldians unsuccessfully attacked<br/>
Austrians—Garibaldi wounded. Mar-<br/>
riage Princess Helena yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 7TH.—-The Prussian Government<br/>
has rejected the proposals of Austria for<br/>
an armistice between the belligerent<br/>
Powers. The communications addressed<br/>
by the Emperor Napoleon to Prussia<br/>
and Italy have not yet been answered,<br/>
the Italian Government having consulted<br/>
Prussia as to the advisability of conclud-<br/>
ing an armistice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cession of Venetia to France has<br/>
caused great discontent in Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A battle has been fought in which the<br/>
Prussians defeated the Bavarian troops.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The "Great Eastern" has sailed for<br/>
America with the new Atlantic cable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advices from Canada state that the<br/>
Parliament had resolved to demand in-<br/>
demnity from the United States Govern-<br/>
ment for the damage committed by the<br/>
Fenian raiders.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
July 7th, (Afternoon):—-Italians re-<br/>
sumed operations. Madras Cotton 6¾d."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 9TH.—-Prussians continue to ad-<br/>
vance into Bohemia—Austrians retreat-<br/>
ing. Cialdini crossed the Po. Nothing<br/>
positive concerning Armistice negoti-<br/>
ations. Tone of the Liverpool Cotton<br/>
Market somewhat firmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 10TH.—-"Great Eastern" com-<br/>
menced laying Cable. 7 lbs. Shirtings 12s.<br/>
6d.; 8½ lbs. do.-—15s. No. 40 Mule Twist<br/>
1s. 9d. Manchester Market firm, but lit-<br/>
tle doing. Cotton unintelligible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
11TH JULY.—-Asserted that Prussia de-<br/>
clined Armistice. Stated that Austrians<br/>
commenced evacuation of Venetia. Cial-<br/>
dini and Garibaldi repulsed Austrian<br/>
party of reconnaisance. Liverpool Cot-<br/>
ton Market firm and active.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 12TH.—-Sir Hugh Rose raised to<br/>
the Peerage. Prince Napoleon gone to<br/>
Italy. Armed mediation of France de-<br/>
nied.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 20TH.—It is announced that<br/>
Prussia has accepted bases of arrange-<br/>
ment—and agreed to abstain from hos-<br/>
tilities for five days. Prussians besieging<br/>
Mentz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 21ST.—Austria accepted propo-<br/>
sals of Prussia to abstain from hostilities<br/>
five days: during which Austria must a-<br/>
gree to preliminaries of peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 23D.—Austria and Prussia a-<br/>
greed to the preliminaries of Peace.<br/>
Austria is excluded from the Confeder-<br/>
ation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 24TH.—Italy has agreed to a<br/>
suspension of hostilities. Reform Riots<br/>
in Hyde Park: Mobs effected entrance<br/>
notwithstanding the opposition of the<br/>
Police—Many injured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JULY 29TH.—Preliminaries of Peace<br/>
signed. Armistice indefinitely prolonged.<br/>
Prussians remain in Bohemia and Mora-<br/>
via. Atlantic Cable successfully laid.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate had passed the bill to con-<br/>
tinue in force for two years the Freed-<br/>
men's Bureau. The bill now goes to the<br/>
House of Representatives for concur-<br/>
rence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Seward is rumoured to have con-<br/>
cluded a secret treaty with the Emperor<br/>
Napoleon, the understanding being that<br/>
the United States should observe strict<br/>
neutrality and non-intervention in the af-<br/>
fairs of Mexico. After the withdrawal<br/>
of the French, Maximilian would secure<br/>
his election as President, and would af-<br/>
terwards declare himself emperor, thus<br/>
avoiding the Monroe doctrine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera had appeared at Elizabeth,<br/>
New Jersey; 40 cases, 11 having been<br/>
fatal, have been reported.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The freedmen have been creating<br/>
disorders in Sumter county, South Caro-<br/>
lina, and detachments of regulars have<br/>
been sent there to preserve order.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Martial law is being enforced in five<br/>
counties of Florida, in consequence of<br/>
the civil authorities failing to protect<br/>
loyal persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that the Radicals are a-<br/>
bout to assemble a caucus at Washing-<br/>
ton to take measures to counteract the<br/>
influence of the National Club. They<br/>
will, it is stated, nominate General Grant<br/>
for the Presidency.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Spain.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Madrid letter in the Paris, gives the<br/>
subjoined narrative of the execution of<br/>
the sergeants implicated in the revolt in<br/>
that city:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At noon, two days back, 21 young fel-<br/>
lows of the army engaged in the late in-<br/>
surrection, almost all of handsome ap-<br/>
pearance, were taken out of the prisons,<br/>
and, after being tied together two by<br/>
two, were placed in carriages with the<br/>
windows wide open, and escorted by a<br/>
numerous body of troops to the place of<br/>
execution. a spot selected in the vacant<br/>
ground between the Salamanca Palace<br/>
and the Champa Elysees. There was a<br/>
preliminary ceremony of military degra-<br/>
dation ; a promenade under the flag ;<br/>
then a discourse, which I could not hear,<br/>
but which lasted two hours, during which<br/>
time these unfortunate men must have<br/>
already suffered a thousand deaths. An<br/>
enormous crowd which had followed the<br/>
procession was kept at a distancess by the<br/>
troops. At last the 21 victims were<br/>
ringed in file, at about a yard's distance<br/>
from a low clay wall, with their backs to<br/>
the soldiers, and then the discharge took<br/>
place. Nearly all of them fell. At that<br/>
moment the Hermanaos de la Caridad, or<br/>
Brothers of Charity rushed forward to<br/>
save at least a few, but were repulsed by<br/>
the troops, and the firing recommenced<br/>
and continued. The firing went on and<br/>
more than 200 shots were fired. What<br/>
a sight! I saw one man raise himself<br/>
three times and fall again on his knees<br/>
with his arms extended in a direction<br/>
from which a piercing voice was heard<br/>
to shriek in the midst of the mass re-<br/>
“Federico! Federico!” The soldiers<br/>
then approached the corpses, turned<br/>
some of them over with their feet, and<br/>
still perceiving some signs of life here<br/>
and there, discharged a last shot point<br/>
black. All was then over. The bodies<br/>
were thrown upon tumbrils, and the re-<br/>
giments filed off, some to an air of the<br/>
Norma ; some to one of the Semisamide.<br/>
Thirty more are to be shot in a day or<br/>
two—-soldiers also ; the rest will come af-<br/>
ter. Let us hope the queen will show<br/>
some compassion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Public order remains undisturbed in<br/>
Madrid and the provinces. and no appre-<br/>
hension exists of fresh disturbances.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Straits Transfer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A bill before the House of Commons<br/>
provides that the Straits Settlements—<br/>
that is to say, the island of Singapore,<br/>
Prince of Wales' Island, and Malacca—<br/>
shall, at a time to be fixed by Order in<br/>
Council, cease to be part of India ; and<br/>
Her Majesty in Council may establish<br/>
laws and constitute Courts for the gov-<br/>
ernment of these Settlements. This<br/>
transfer from the Indian to the home<br/>
administration is made at the desire of<br/>
the merchants in the Settlements. It<br/>
will not entail any charge on the finances<br/>
of the country—-the Settlements will be<br/>
self-supporting. Sir Hercules Robinson<br/>
was instructed by the late Duke of New-<br/>
castle to report upon the subject of this<br/>
change, and the report, which was made<br/>
two years ago, recommends that the<br/>
three Settlements be incorporated into<br/>
one Crown colony, under one governor,<br/>
with an executive council, and that for<br/>
all legislative purposes there should be<br/>
one council, composed, as in Ceylon and<br/>
Hongkong, of official and unofficial mem-<br/>
bers nominated by the Crown, the Go-<br/>
vernor to be enjoined to visit Penang and<br/>
Malacca for the certain portion of the<br/>
year.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
European War.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The following communication is<br/>
from one who seems to be fully con-<br/>
versant with the state of affairs on the<br/>
Continent of Europe, and therefore may<br/>
be relied upon as correct.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BERLIN 9TH JULY 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great events have taken place since<br/>
my last communication. The war has<br/>
actually broken out. The Prussian<br/>
armies entered the capitals of Saxony,<br/>
Hanover and Hessen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king of Saxony fled with his<br/>
army of 30,000 men to the Austrian<br/>
province of Bohemia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king of Hanover tried with his<br/>
army of 20,000 men to reach Austria<br/>
or Bohemia, but he was surrounded<br/>
by a Prussian army, and after a battle<br/>
at Langensalza, which the Hanover-<br/>
ians fought with great courage, the<br/>
Hanoverians surrendered on the 28th<br/>
June to the Prussians, 20,000 men,<br/>
cannon, munitions of war etc. etc.<br/>
The king of Hanover, generals and<br/>
officers were allowed to retire to any<br/>
place they liked. The army was dis-<br/>
banded and sent home; king, officers<br/>
and army swearing not to fight against<br/>
Prussia during the war.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Grand Duke of Hessen was<br/>
taken prisoner in his capital and sent<br/>
to the Prussian Royal castle at Stettin<br/>
on the 25th June. He is however al-<br/>
lowed to visit quite freely through the<br/>
town of Stettin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since the last 14 days other great<br/>
events have taken place. Prussia enter-<br/>
ed with three different armies into<br/>
Bohemia, Austria. The 1st army is<br/>
commanded by H. R. H. The Crown<br/>
Prince; the 2nd army, by Prince<br/>
Fredrick Charles, nephew of the king<br/>
of Prussia; and the 3d by General<br/>
Herwarth v. Bittenfeld.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 27th June the 1st army<br/>
gave battle to an Austrian army at<br/>
the small town of Nachod in Bohemia;<br/>
the Prussians won the battle making<br/>
about 8,000 prisoners, 20 cannon etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 28th the 2nd army gave<br/>
battle to an Austrian army near Mua-<br/>
chengratz in Bohemia, the Prussians<br/>
were again victorious making 4,000<br/>
prisoners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Different other small encounters<br/>
took place, a larger one near the Castle<br/>
of Seihrow, where the Prussians made<br/>
1500 prisoners.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 29th another great battle<br/>
took place at Gitschin. The Prussian<br/>
army was again victorious making<br/>
about 6,000 prisoners, driving the<br/>
Austrians from this well fortified<br/>
place. So that up to the 1st July the<br/>
Prussians made 20,000 Austrian pri-<br/>
soners. By this victory the Prussian<br/>
armies of the Crown Prince and Prince<br/>
Fredrick Charles became united in<br/>
Bohemia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 1st July H. M. the King of<br/>
Prussia left Berlin and arrived at Git-<br/>
schin on the 2d July.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 3d July a still greater battle<br/>
took place between the whole Prussian<br/>
armies and the Austrian armies, the<br/>
battle lasted 8 hours; the Prussians<br/>
were commanded by H. M. the King;<br/>
the Prussians winning again, routing<br/>
entirely the Austrian army, making<br/>
20,000 prisoners, 120 cannon, and an<br/>
immense amount of war material. 3<br/>
Austrian Arch-dukes were wounded,<br/>
several Austrian generals were made<br/>
prisoners. The loss in dead and<br/>
wounded is very large on both sides,<br/>
but perhaps double on the Austrian<br/>
side, on account of the Prussian needle<br/>
guns and rayed cannon. It is impos-<br/>
sible to describe the result of these<br/>
terrific needle guns and rayed cannons,<br/>
both Prussian inventions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Austrians fired about once a<br/>
minute with their old guns, the Prus-<br/>
sians about four or five times, besides<br/>
being more accurate and carrying a<br/>
greater distance. It is reported from<br/>
good authority, that entire Austrian<br/>
battalions refused to stand against<br/>
these terrific guns and cannon, seeing<br/>
that it was useless to fight at a dis-<br/>
tance not being able to approach so<br/>
that their musketry would have good<br/>
effect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 4th July the Austrian Field<br/>
Marshal Benedek sent Gen. Gablenz<br/>
to the king of Prussia suing for an<br/>
armistice, which was refused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 8th the Prussians head<br/>
quarters were at Pardubitz an import-<br/>
ant central point of the Austrian rail-<br/>
ways in Bohemia. The Prussian armies<br/>
are still advancing; the Austrians<br/>
retiring.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The other Prussian armies in Sax-<br/>
ony, Hessen etc. had slight engage-<br/>
ments with the Bavarian troops with-<br/>
out importance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Italians declared war against<br/>
the Austrians and Bavarians on the<br/>
18th June. They gave battle to the<br/>
Austrian armies at Custozza in the<br/>
kingdom of Verona on the 24th June,<br/>
in which they lost 2,000 prisoners,<br/>
and the Austrians 1,200. The Aus-<br/>
trians claim the victory, the Italians<br/>
deny this, and say that it was only a<br/>
great skirmish at best ; but there is no<br/>
doubt that the Austrians won the day,<br/>
and that the Italians were obliged<br/>
partly to retire, but without losing the<br/>
battle entirely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia in all her dealings with the<br/>
conquered countries of Saxony, Han-<br/>
over, Hessen, and part of Bohemia<br/>
acts exceedingly friendly and fair to<br/>
the populations, not levying any mon-<br/>
etary taxes and not taking possession<br/>
of any collections of arts, paintings<br/>
or valuable curiosities, always declaring<br/>
that Prussia wars not with the people<br/>
but only with the ill guided Kings and<br/>
governments who are under the com-<br/>
mand of Austria, and the Catholic<br/>
clergy party who wish to crush Pro-<br/>
testant Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You cannot imagine how many<br/>
false reports are spread all over Eu-<br/>
rope by persons whose interest it is to<br/>
hide the truth, and so it comes that<br/>
many newspapers give altogether false<br/>
reports.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The reports I send to you are en-<br/>
tirely to be relied upon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 4th July, after the Emper-<br/>
or of Austria heard of the lost battle<br/>
of the 3d, a council of all the minis-<br/>
ters was held at Vienna till late in the<br/>
night, and the desperate state of the<br/>
Austrian army in Bohemia was certi-<br/>
fied. The Emperor and ministers<br/>
have been for a long time aware that<br/>
they cannot keep Venetia much longer,<br/>
but they were in honor bound to show<br/>
fight and to make Europe believe that<br/>
they were not afraid of the Italians,<br/>
and that if they would cede Venetia<br/>
they would do it by their own free<br/>
will. A better moment than after<br/>
they had won the battle of Custozza<br/>
could not be, but they allowed it to<br/>
pass ; and rather late the Emperor of<br/>
Austria, after hearing of the lost battle<br/>
of July 3d, telegraphed to the Emper-<br/>
or Napoleon on the 4th or 5th July,<br/>
that he, the Emperor of Austria, ceded<br/>
to the Emperor Napoleon, part of the<br/>
kingdom of Venetia, and requested the<br/>
Emperor Napoleon to arrange an<br/>
armistice between Austria, Italy and<br/>
Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Up to this date no decision is taken.<br/>
The report says, that Italy is not will-<br/>
ing to give up the war, without Prus-<br/>
sia, as Italy and Prussia after their<br/>
treaties cannot single handed make<br/>
peace. There is no doubt that des-<br/>
patches and telegraphic messages are<br/>
hourly exchanged between France and<br/>
Austria, and France with Italy and<br/>
Prussia, but I do not believe much in<br/>
these peace like reports, unless Italy<br/>
receives entirely the kingdom of Ven-<br/>
etia, and Prussia keeps the supremacy<br/>
over Northern Germany.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
DR. SCHWARZ has communicated to the<br/>
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY OF ARTS the<br/>
following simple method of preserving<br/>
small quantities of ice, which he has<br/>
practised with success. Put the ice in a<br/>
deep dish or jug, cover it with a plate,<br/>
place the vessel on a pillow stuffed with<br/>
feathers, and cover the top with another<br/>
pillow carefully, by this means excluding<br/>
the external air. Feathers are, it is well<br/>
known, bad conductors of heat, and in<br/>
consequence the ice is preserved from<br/>
melting. Dr. Schwarz states that he has<br/>
thus preserved six pounds of ice for eight<br/>
days. The plan is simple, and within the<br/>
reach of every household.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
WHITE USED FOR MOURNING.—-At<br/>
Combe, near Woodstock, Oxfordshire, the<br/>
custom is as follows, when an unmarried<br/>
person, under thirty (speaking in the<br/>
rough) of either sex, is buried:—-If, as<br/>
in the case of a child's funeral, the bear-<br/>
ers are young women, they wear white<br/>
dresses (commonly nothing better than<br/>
petticoats), and white bonnets, with black<br/>
cloaks or shawls ; if, as in the case of an<br/>
older person's funeral, they are young<br/>
men, they are dressed in black, but wear<br/>
white gloves and white neck-ties; the<br/>
pall is white. At Stonesfield, an adjoin-<br/>
ing parish on the north, I found the fol-<br/>
lowing additional custom, on recently of-<br/>
ficiating there at the funeral of a little<br/>
boy. While I read “Man is born of a<br/>
woman,” &c., the four girls held the<br/>
white pall by its four corners, over the<br/>
coffin ; after the coffin had been lowered<br/>
into the grave, they held the pall over it<br/>
in a similar manner, until the service was<br/>
concluded.—-NOTES AND QUERIES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
How to Produce Eggs.—-“J. H. F.”<br/>
writes to the PRAIRIE FARMER; “A hen<br/>
is a perfect machine which if cared for as<br/>
it should be, being kept in comfortable<br/>
quarters and fed with care, will produce<br/>
eggs in spite of herself. If as a rule a hen<br/>
is kept clean (for nothing enjoys clean-<br/>
liness more than a hen) and furnished a<br/>
supply of grain, meat and vegetables,<br/>
she will produce the eggs which she has<br/>
got to lay or die. Take away the flesh<br/>
and vegetables and small grain and give<br/>
corn and water alone and your hens will<br/>
cease to lay and become fat. Corn in it-<br/>
self has less of the properties which make<br/>
the egg than any of the smaller grains<br/>
which we raise. Rice, wheat, barley and<br/>
buckwheat are best for eggs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
BENEFIT OF PLOWING.—-"Farmer<br/>
writes to the MAINE FARMER:—-"After<br/>
living on a farm for half a century prac-<br/>
tising and experimenting, observation and<br/>
experience teach me that plowing, in-<br/>
stead of being an injury, is a great bene-<br/>
fit to any land. My method of treating<br/>
waste or pasture land is to first plow it<br/>
and sow with grain. The next season I<br/>
lay it down, and turn it to pasture for a-<br/>
bout four, years, observing to keep<br/>
stock on the land night as well as day<br/>
for the summer season. Then I plow<br/>
again and take off another crop of grain,<br/>
after which turn to pasture as before.<br/>
My land managed in this way fifteen or<br/>
twenty years, is in as high a state of<br/>
cultivation as the best manured land I<br/>
have."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
HARROWING.—-One of the most im-<br/>
portant operations on the farm is the<br/>
preparation of the ground for the seed.<br/>
Among these is a careful harrowing of<br/>
the ground. The cultivator either for<br/>
oxen or a hors is a valuable aid on most<br/>
soils towards pulverizing the earth. An<br/>
extra harrowing is labor never lost. Amid<br/>
the hurry of planting we are apt to over-<br/>
look the importance of the value of a<br/>
fine mellow soil. We never think of<br/>
sowing beds in our garden without har-<br/>
ing the soil as deep and mellow as pos-<br/>
sible. Let Buck and Broad go over the<br/>
ground once more, even though the boys<br/>
do protest against it. Tell them it will<br/>
be all the easier for it.-—MAINE FARMER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MR. PEABODY IN NEW ENGLAND.-—Mr.<br/>
George Peabody, the eminent American<br/>
banker and philanthropist of London,<br/>
reached Boston last week in the Scotia,<br/>
and has been received with distinguished<br/>
marks of honor in his native State, as he<br/>
will be in every part of the country that<br/>
he may visit. Mr. Peabody was born in<br/>
Danvers, Mass., February 18th, 1795.<br/>
He started in life poor, as a clerk in a<br/>
grocery store in his native town. In <br/>
1814, he became engaged in the whole-<br/>
sale dry goods business at Georgetown,<br/>
D. C. The house prospered and was trans-<br/>
ferred to Baltimore. In 1822, branches<br/>
of the house were established at New<br/>
York and Philadelphia. He went to<br/>
England in 1837, and established himself<br/>
as a merchant and banker in London in<br/>
1843. His house thenceforth became the<br/>
headquarters of Americans in London.<br/>
In 1852, he gave to his native town of<br/>
Danvers the sum of $80,000 to found a<br/>
library and institute, and to North Dan-<br/>
ver $10,000 for a branch library. In<br/>
1856, he gave $800,000 to found a liter-<br/>
ary and scientific institute at Baltimore,<br/>
with a pledge to increase this sum to<br/>
$500,000. He also gave $10,000 to the<br/>
Grinnell Arctic expedition. His benefac-<br/>
tions to the poor of London amount in<br/>
the aggregate to $2,250,000. History<br/>
furnishes no parallel to this instance of<br/>
private charity by a living man.—-NEW<br/>
YORK OBSERVER, MAY 10TH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder:
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
August 23d 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rangoon, Bangkok & Singa-
pore Telegraph Line.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We rejoice in hearing from Singa-<br/>
pore of the continued success of the<br/>
Telegraph Company concerned in the<br/>
projected line from Rangoon to that<br/>
place. It appears that their wishes<br/>
have been fully granted by the Malay<br/>
governments of Jehore, Rambow, and<br/>
Selangore. It remains only for the<br/>
Company to obtain from the govern-<br/>
ment of Perak (a small Malay State<br/>
between Selangore on the south and<br/>
Quedah on the north—-a tributary<br/>
State of Siam) the privilege of cross-<br/>
ing her territory with their line, when<br/>
the way will have been fully prepar-<br/>
ed for commencing its construction.<br/>
In consequence of some civil commo-<br/>
tions at present existing in that State,<br/>
this concession may be delayed a little,<br/>
but with no danger that it will be re-<br/>
fused.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The English government at home,<br/>
we learn, is much pleased with the<br/>
project, and expresses lively gratitude<br/>
to the Siamese government for its<br/>
prompt and noble encouragement of<br/>
it. Hence we conclude there is much<br/>
reason to hope that the line will be<br/>
completed within two years, together<br/>
with its contemplated Bangkok<br/>
Branch, and its extention also to Ba-<br/>
tavia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
O what good times we shall then<br/>
have in our lightening communications<br/>
with India, Europe, and America.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Petchaburee No. 8.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Siamese Ploughs or yokes and
Harrows.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Though a native plough be not<br/>
worthy of the name, as remarked in<br/>
our last article, we think it worthy of<br/>
a description. Their ploughs are of<br/>
two kinds, one designed to be drawn<br/>
by a single buffalo, and the other by<br/>
a yoke of oxen. The difference be-<br/>
tween them is mainly in the length<br/>
of the beam. The plough for a single<br/>
buffalo has a beam only about four<br/>
feet long; but the beam for a yoke of<br/>
oxen is from 10 to 12 feet in length,<br/>
proceeding forward from the handle<br/>
with an upward curve, then down-<br/>
ward, and the... again upward to a<br/>
slender and graceful point which is<br/>
seen above the heads of the oxen and<br/>
18 or 20 inches a head of them.<br/>
This long beam saves the necessity<br/>
of having any rope or chain with<br/>
which to draw the plough. The<br/>
yoke is attached to it by means of a<br/>
rope passing through auger holes in<br/>
it, and around wooden pins in the<br/>
plough beam some 3 feet from its an-<br/>
terior end. The end where it curves<br/>
above the heads of the oxen serves an<br/>
important purpose aside from mere<br/>
fancy. Cords passing from the nasal<br/>
septum of each ox is made fast to it,<br/>
with sufficient tightness to keep the<br/>
heads of the cattle quite elevated,<br/>
causing them to look peculiarly smart,<br/>
and making them, it is said, much<br/>
more manageable than without such<br/>
an expedient. But for it they could<br/>
not, it is thought, be kept in the track<br/>
marked out for them, as they loose<br/>
all recollection of duty in their hun-<br/>
ting for some thing to eat as they<br/>
plod along. Such appears not to be<br/>
the weakness of the buffalo, and con-<br/>
sequently, needing no such martin-<br/>
gales to keep his head up, he is hitch-<br/>
ed to a plough with a short beam<br/>
and draws it by means of rope traces<br/>
passing from a rude whippletree to a<br/>
wooden yoke fixed on his neck<br/>
by a rope in the place of our ox<br/>
bow. The yoke is in the form of a<br/>
crescent with its extremities curving<br/>
a little outward in the form of a small<br/>
knob. To these knobs the traces are<br/>
tied. You will see the buffalo going<br/>
along with great apparent careless-<br/>
ness, always holding his head near<br/>
the ground, snapping up here and<br/>
there a mouthful of grass, and yet<br/>
never losing the furrow by which he<br/>
is to walk. The only trouble seems<br/>
to be, that he will halt a little to get<br/>
what he wishes to eat. He, as well<br/>
as the oxen, is guided by reins fas-<br/>
tened to his nostrils.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A yoke designed for a pair of oxen<br/>
is often a simple, straight and round-<br/>
ed stick 2¾ inches in diameter and 3¾<br/>
feet long. Some of them are more<br/>
tasty by having a slight bend down-<br/>
ward in their middle with a little<br/>
enlargement there for an auger hole for<br/>
the rope of the plough or the tongue<br/>
of a cart to be attached, a slight curve<br/>
upward and then downward for the<br/>
necks of the oxen, ending in a little<br/>
curve upward. The neck of each ox<br/>
is confined to its place by means of<br/>
two straight wooden pins three quar-<br/>
ters of an inch in diameter and a foot<br/>
long, passing through the yoke in the<br/>
place of a bow, being less open at<br/>
the top than at the bottom, and then<br/>
small cords, passing under the neck<br/>
tied to the upper ends of the pins,<br/>
complete all the purposes of an ox-<br/>
bow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The two kinds of ploughs are a-<br/>
bout equally strong, but neither of<br/>
them strong enough to stand a hard<br/>
pull from a yoke of ordinary western<br/>
oxen. The one for a buffalo would<br/>
not usually weigh more than 30 lbs.<br/>
Its runner and mould board is a na-<br/>
tural crotch being one and the same<br/>
stick, the shorter branch of the crotch<br/>
serving for the mould board, and the<br/>
longer branch for the runner. The<br/>
latter is about two feet long by 10<br/>
inches round. It comes to a small<br/>
point at its nose fitted for the socket<br/>
of the ploughshare. The latter, but<br/>
a little larger than a large human<br/>
hand, is made of cast iron the shape<br/>
of half of a large ovate leaf cut<br/>
square off in the middle. Its upper<br/>
plane is flat inclining a very little to<br/>
the right hand when in its place. It<br/>
bulges out on the under side to form<br/>
a flattened socket to receive the<br/>
nose of the runner. It is never fas-<br/>
tened in its place excepting by a<br/>
close fit, their owners wishing to have<br/>
them so that they may be knocked<br/>
off at night and carried home to<br/>
secure them from thieves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mould board, if such it can be<br/>
called, is only of the same width of<br/>
the runner, but made thinner, curving<br/>
backward and upward about 12 inch-<br/>
es. It has a slight inclination to the<br/>
right hand to favor the turning of the<br/>
clods to that side rather than the oth-<br/>
er. Being a natural branch of the<br/>
runner it needs nothing to strengthen<br/>
it. The hinder end of the beam cur-<br/>
ves down and is framed into the back<br/>
end of the runner. The handle of<br/>
the plough (for there are never two)<br/>
is a natural crook forming a large<br/>
segment of a circle four feet long,<br/>
passes through the beam just behind<br/>
the mould board, and is framed in<br/>
the runner near the acute angle made<br/>
by the two.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now such is all there is<br/>
of a Siamese plough, the wood part<br/>
costing only 75 cents, and the iron 15<br/>
cents. It cuts a furrow 2 inches deep<br/>
and from 5 to 6 inches wide. We<br/>
should judge that only about half of<br/>
the clods it breaks up are turned<br/>
over by it. It does its work very imper-<br/>
fectly at the best.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The natives plough in the same<br/>
way as we do in America, going<br/>
round and round a plat of the lot or<br/>
the whole, if it be but small, until<br/>
it is all cut up. The teams alway<br/>
have rope reins fastened to their nos-<br/>
trils, and these the ploughmen take<br/>
in their left hand while they hold<br/>
the plough with the other.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The native Harrow.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This, as before intimated, is sim-<br/>
ply a large wooden rake, consisting<br/>
of a rounded stick of tough wood 3<br/>
inches in diameter, having 10 or 12<br/>
teeth. It has a hoop shape handle<br/>
for the convenience of lifting it up to<br/>
shake off grass and stubble that get<br/>
entangled in its teeth, and for bearing<br/>
down to give it more execution<br/>
when needed. Its tongue is made of<br/>
two small bamboos and extends far<br/>
enough ahead to admit of tying to it<br/>
the cords from the nostrils of the oxen<br/>
and forcing them to hold up their<br/>
heads.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prof. John Silsby.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have recently received two num-<br/>
bers of "The Nationalist " a sheet<br/>
36 by 24-inches published at Mo-<br/>
bile, Alabama, and edited by Prof.<br/>
John Silsby, once our colleague in<br/>
the missionary work in this city.<br/>
The Nationalist is one of several<br/>
newspapers that have sprung up in the<br/>
South since the collapse of the great<br/>
rebellion, and supported chiefly by<br/>
the Freedmen. We are pleased with<br/>
the ring of this paper, showing as we<br/>
think it does the genuine metal of the<br/>
great Republican party, which will<br/>
not rest in its onward march of liberty,<br/>
until every root as well as branch and<br/>
stalk of African slavery shall have<br/>
been eradicated from the hearts of<br/>
the people as well as from all statute<br/>
books in the U. States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prof. Silsby returned home in 1854<br/>
in consequence of his health being<br/>
impaired by the climate. From that<br/>
time to the beginning of the late civil<br/>
war, he was connected with a new<br/>
educational institute in Wisconsin.<br/>
He and his eldest son enlisted early in<br/>
the war. The son having been wound-<br/>
ed after two years of service died in a<br/>
hospital The father continuing through<br/>
the war in the capacity of lieutenant<br/>
in the Tennessee Division, has come<br/>
out a bold editor in behalf of the mil-<br/>
lions of Freedmen, and will we trust do<br/>
great good for that chosen people of<br/>
God.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cheang-Mai State Boats.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As one great object of our paper is<br/>
to give reliable information concerning<br/>
Siam and its tributary states we pro-<br/>
pose in this article to describe the<br/>
boats of the king of Cheang-mai, in<br/>
which he and his retinue came to the<br/>
capital on the 9th inst. We regard a<br/>
king who is as yet but little known as<br/>
a great curiosity, and the royal barge<br/>
in which he rides, and the state boats<br/>
which accompany him triennially to<br/>
pay tribute to his Suzarain become<br/>
consequently curious things. Who<br/>
would not highly prize a photographi<br/>
pictures of them! Now as we cannot<br/>
furnish our readers with such a picture,<br/>
we will do the next best thing-—give<br/>
a particular description of them with<br/>
words.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole fleet of 25 boats are es-<br/>
sentially of one fashion but of different<br/>
sizes. The one in which the king him-<br/>
self rode is, we should judge, 70 feet<br/>
long, and that more than half of the<br/>
train are but little shorter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A striking characteristic of them all,<br/>
is the flaunting stern, curving abrupt-<br/>
ly up some 8 or 10 feet, and ending<br/>
in the form of a swallow’s tail 20 inches<br/>
wide by 2 or 3 thick. Just in front of this,<br/>
and nearly as high, is a round roof cov-<br/>
ering the main cabin, as we may call<br/>
it, about 12 feet long and 8 wide. The<br/>
arch of this roof describes nearly the half<br/>
of a circle, and is made of bamboo<br/>
wattling with palm leaves nicely laid<br/>
beneath it to shed the rain. The boat<br/>
is only from 2 to 5 feet wide thus near<br/>
the stern, and the floor of the cabin<br/>
consequently extends over its sides at<br/>
the hinder part 3 feet. The cabin of<br/>
the royal barge is of course a good deal<br/>
more tasty than that of the other boats.<br/>
Its walls are of teak-wood paneled, form-<br/>
ing a breast work 3 feet high all<br/>
around. The space between the top of<br/>
this to the beams is occupied by shut-<br/>
ters made of bamboo mats neatly paint-<br/>
ed, and swinging on hinges above.<br/>
Hence the cabin is a very airy room<br/>
when all the bamboo shutters are open-<br/>
ed. But there is one very serious in-<br/>
convenience in this cabin, which is the<br/>
long and heavy shaft of the rudder ex-<br/>
tending nearly through it, and the<br/>
helmsman standing in its midst hold-<br/>
ing it. But this inconvenience is ex-<br/>
perienced only when the boat is going;<br/>
when in port the rudder is taken out<br/>
and laid up on shore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The rudder-shaft of the king’s barge<br/>
is 18 feet long and five inches in diam-<br/>
eter, and has a paddle-shape blade 6<br/>
feet in length by 2 in width. In the<br/>
back wall of the cabin, quite to the left<br/>
side of the boat is an orifice surroun-<br/>
ded with fancy work for the shaft to<br/>
pass into the cabin, and on that it<br/>
works as its fulcrum. In answer to<br/>
the question what can be the necessity<br/>
of such a huge rudder for so small a<br/>
craft? The native’s reply was, that<br/>
the boats could not be steered without<br/>
them, especially in passing over the<br/>
falls far up at the north.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The midships of the boat is occupied<br/>
by a round house 30 feet long, without<br/>
any opening excepting small doors at<br/>
each end. Its top is 2 feet lower than<br/>
the roof of the cabin. Its sides are<br/>
made of teak nicely matched and calk-<br/>
ed, and the space between the two<br/>
is of bamboo wattling like the cover-<br/>
ing of the cabin. The width of this<br/>
room thus enclosed is about 8 feet. It<br/>
is by far the best protected room in<br/>
the boat and is, as we suppose, used<br/>
for sleeping purposes by the king. The<br/>
20 or more feet of the boat in front of<br/>
this is open, and there the four or five<br/>
rowers sit flat down on its floor with<br/>
their faces sternward, and pull their<br/>
heavy oars. The bow of the boat ex-<br/>
tends out in a flat open plane 5 feet<br/>
long and 2½ feet wide, coming to a<br/>
point like a dart. This is in fact only<br/>
the end of the log of which the bottom<br/>
of the boat is made. All these Laos<br/>
boats, like the state boats of the Siam-<br/>
ese are but immense logs scooped out<br/>
to the thickness of two inches or more,<br/>
and then the sides sprang out by means<br/>
of fire as far as they can be, which is<br/>
sometimes 3 times more than their<br/>
natural width. The sides are then built<br/>
up from 1 to 3 feet with teak plank.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king's boat is principally dis-<br/>
tinguished from all the others by rich<br/>
gilding on its stern, describing leaves<br/>
and flowers on a black ground work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the boats have a plank foot path<br/>
on both sides, which is more especially<br/>
needed when the boatmen are required<br/>
to propell the boats by poles against a<br/>
strong current in shoal water. They<br/>
then walk the planks from stern to stern<br/>
pushing with all their might.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have observed that the Siamese<br/>
and Chinese, who live far up the Menam,<br/>
have boats much like these of the Laos.<br/>
There has recently been a great fleet<br/>
of them in port all freighted with cot-<br/>
ton.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We called two hours since at the<br/>
floating house occupied by the Queen<br/>
of Cheang Mai to inquire after her<br/>
health, and were happy to learn that<br/>
she is reported to be convalescent. Still<br/>
she is very feeble and greatly emacia-<br/>
ted. It appears that her present ill-<br/>
ness is a relapse of the dysentery with<br/>
which she was seized some weeks be-<br/>
fore her arrival, which accounts for the<br/>
great wasting of her flesh.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The daughter and grand-child of<br/>
the Queen reported in our last as be-<br/>
ing dangerously ill of dysentery we<br/>
learn have both recovered, and that all<br/>
the other invalids belonging to the<br/>
king of Cheang Mai's retinue are im-<br/>
proving.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This is the second day of a hair<br/>
cutting festival at the palace of His<br/>
Excellency Chow Phya Kaiahome for<br/>
two of the sons of the late Phya Wo-<br/>
rap'ong His Excellency's cousin, and<br/>
for a daughter of His Excellency the<br/>
late Phya Montree Sooriwongs, the<br/>
own brother of the Premier. The cer-<br/>
emonies have been honored by the<br/>
presence, of several of the sons and<br/>
daughters of His Majesty the king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency Kaiahome takes the<br/>
place as sire in this affair, and he con-<br/>
sequently will himself cut off the top<br/>
knots of the three children early to-<br/>
morrow morning with shears, and com-<br/>
mit the shaving of their heads to a bar-<br/>
ber of his own appointment. While<br/>
these acts are in progress, the conch-<br/>
shell blowers, trumpeters, pipers, and<br/>
drummers will do all they can to make<br/>
a continuous and deafening noise until<br/>
the shaving and bathing are over. Then<br/>
will follow the feasting—then the eer-<br/>
emonies for inspiring spirit and cour-<br/>
age in the subjects-—then the pronoun-<br/>
cing of the blessing upon them by Bra-<br/>
min priests—-and finally the offering<br/>
of gifts of silver, gold and jewels to<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that there is a scarcity of<br/>
rice at Singapore in consequence of the<br/>
usual resources from Arraca[?] and Ran-<br/>
goon having been turned to the fam-<br/>
ine districts in Orissa. Our informant<br/>
says that the Siamese Str. Chow Phya<br/>
has loaded chiefly with rice for Sin-<br/>
gapore at the high rate of 62 cts. per<br/>
picul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the steamer Chow Phya which<br/>
arrived here on the 17th inst. we have<br/>
dates from London up to 30th June,<br/>
from America to 20th June, from Shang-<br/>
hai to 14th July, from Hongkong to<br/>
28th July, from Penang to 2nd Au-<br/>
gust, and from Singapore to 13th Au-<br/>
gust. By telegram from London to<br/>
29th July.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya, M. Re-<br/>
mi de Montagne.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have not until this late day<br/>
learned that we made a mistake<br/>
in saying in our issue for July 12th,<br/>
that Monsieur Aubaret, Consul for<br/>
the French, had the honor of presen-<br/>
ting a sword to His Majesty the king<br/>
as a present from the Emperor of the<br/>
French, and that he probably at the<br/>
same time presented Prince Somdetch<br/>
Chowfa Chulalongkorn a dagger, be-<br/>
ing a gift from the Prince Imperial.<br/>
It now appears that neither of these<br/>
tokens of honor were sent by him. It<br/>
seems that our mistake arose from its<br/>
having been incredibly reported that<br/>
both the sword and the dagger were<br/>
mentioned in the Emperor's auto<br/>
graph letter to His Majesty the King<br/>
of Siam as having been sent by the<br/>
hand of M. Aubaret, and eye witness-<br/>
es of the public audience testified<br/>
that they saw the sword presented.<br/>
This is an apt illustration of the<br/>
difficulty we have of get ting correct<br/>
information on affairs that occur in<br/>
the royal palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_2_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok, Siam as it is.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From S. U.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We will take our boat for a morning<br/>
side before breakfast. We start on the<br/>
broad Menam but only go up the river<br/>
a little, and turn into a great canal on<br/>
the right hand towards the east, and<br/>
this soon leads us to the canal which<br/>
surrounds the city without the walls.<br/>
We pass on to the rear of the city, leave<br/>
our boats and climb a great pagoda yet<br/>
uncompleted, but affording from the top<br/>
at present a most beautiful panoramic<br/>
view of the city and its surroundings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We see the city entire—-the city<br/>
proper is now on the eastern side-of<br/>
the river. We see the wall around it, a<br/>
broad road all around within and the<br/>
canal without. Then there are streets<br/>
meeting this circular one at right an-<br/>
gles. The one through the city runs<br/>
along beside the wall which encloses<br/>
the palaces of the first and second<br/>
kings, (the latter of whom is now no<br/>
more,)with their extensive surroundings<br/>
for accommodating their extensive ha-<br/>
rems, and their equally extensive<br/>
crowd of servants; and then again the<br/>
homes of the daughters, and sisters,<br/>
and aunts, and near relatives of the<br/>
reigning king, and of those who have<br/>
passed away that once were royal;<br/>
for all these are doomed to celibacy,<br/>
and must be provided for from the<br/>
royal treasury, and have homes and<br/>
protection within the palace walls. It<br/>
is a complicated household indeed,<br/>
that of a king’s in a heathen country<br/>
which cherishes polygamy for the kings,<br/>
and eternal celibacy for their daughters,<br/>
if they cannot find no royal husband.<br/>
Then there are the elephant’s houses,<br/>
and the royal gardens, and the royal<br/>
monasteries many and varied and beau-<br/>
tiful towering up before us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We see little of the great river, but<br/>
the gardens of fruit trees upon its bank<br/>
look like a great forest winding along<br/>
amid the vast rice fields, stretching<br/>
away on every hand to the edge of the<br/>
horizon. The river fronting the city<br/>
proper has no gardens. So we see on<br/>
the opposite side distinctly-—the forti-<br/>
fications made by Falcon and the palace<br/>
once occupied by the Siamese kings,<br/>
but now by one of the king’s brothers.<br/>
Below the palace and inland a little is<br/>
a long line of imposing buildings oc-<br/>
cupied by the Prime Minister, the Min-<br/>
ister of foreign affairs, and their exten-<br/>
sive families, and the families of their<br/>
father and uncle, two of the most pow-<br/>
erful men in the kingdom when the<br/>
present monarch ascended the throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Their families now steady the reins<br/>
of government. They are among the<br/>
most wise, politic, and far-seeing in<br/>
the kingdom. God grant that they may<br/>
henceforward show themselves unsel-<br/>
fish, patriotic, and true to the best in-<br/>
terests of their country. Should they<br/>
suggest liberal policy, the giving to<br/>
the people a free choice of worship and<br/>
at the same time encouraging good-<br/>
ness, learning, and the arts, aiming at a<br/>
good government, the day might im-<br/>
mediately dawn in Siam and the go-<br/>
vernment awake to a new sense of its<br/>
powers and its destiny.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mass of the foreign population<br/>
live without the city walls one mile and<br/>
a half below on the river, and the new<br/>
street parallel with it. The mile and<br/>
a half between is occupied by the mar-<br/>
ket, the merchant Chinamen, and the<br/>
conveniences for trade, and the dwel-<br/>
lings of business people. We see also<br/>
the king's great lotus garden, the vege-<br/>
table gardens, the multiplied rice<br/>
mills dotted on the great panorama.<br/>
No hills relieve the landscape. It is<br/>
the great valley watered by the Menam.<br/>
The hills are beyond the ken of vision<br/>
except as they may mistily loom up in<br/>
the far off horizon. It is a luxurious<br/>
prospect, but little varied or striking.<br/>
It may be called beautiful but never<br/>
bold, or grand, or magnificently pic-<br/>
turesque. Yet this scene affords food<br/>
for thought. A book might be written<br/>
with the recollections of what I have<br/>
seen and felt and witnessed in this<br/>
place, and among the people now before<br/>
me. It is a very suggestive scene.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
To be continued.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Visit to the ruins of Cambodia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued from No. 32.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sculptures are high relief, and<br/>
the figures carved out of the walls are<br/>
about half the size of life more or less.<br/>
They shine as if polished on account<br/>
of the frequent cleaning previous to<br/>
their being overlaid with colors and<br/>
gold leaf, an operation formerly re-<br/>
peated at every festive day in the year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The three passages of the corridor the<br/>
subjects represented are taken from<br/>
the Ramayana well known in transla-<br/>
tions throughout Burma and Siam,<br/>
although differing in many particu-<br/>
lars from the Sanscrit original, one<br/>
sees Rama or Garuda and Laakeman<br/>
[..] Hanuman leading on their warriors<br/>
against Rawana, (with ten heads,<br/>
therefore called Thookakan,) the bridge<br/>
through the sea so built by the mon-<br/>
keys, and Rama supplicates the assis-<br/>
[..] of Maha Ruai the chief of her-<br/>
mits, who sits with his head in the<br/>
posture of Seva; Dasaratha Rama's<br/>
mother challenges his enemy, Rawana<br/>
to the sun. All these subjects are<br/>
sculptured in stone. One may see<br/>
painted in gaudy colours and more<br/>
fantastic shapes in the Royal Watts at<br/>
Bangkok, but in Nakhon Watt are<br/>
[..] met with the fabulous productions<br/>
of Raxasi or right handed Deities<br/>
&c. these are wanting in the battle<br/>
scene of the adjoining verandah which<br/>
is taken from ordinary human life.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the battle called that of Phra<br/>
Phroot, the kings advance against<br/>
each other on chariots and many an<br/>
animated contest is depicted. One<br/>
[..] appears to belong to the Maha-<br/>
bharata, representing Bhima as placed<br/>
on a litter of arrows by the Pandus.<br/>
The other seems to be the duel between<br/>
Phya Katong and Lakemana.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the following compartment, the<br/>
whole length 240 feet, is occupied by<br/>
the struggle between Thevadan and<br/>
Demons, for the Naga snake, the form-<br/>
er who are aided by Hanuman drag-<br/>
ging on the tail, the latter the head.<br/>
In the middle stands Vishnu upon<br/>
"Nihuma Raya" the world supporting<br/>
[..]. The same subject a favorite<br/>
one with the authors, I have seen re-<br/>
peated in several others places, chiefly<br/>
in ornamental sculptures for Porticoes.<br/>
On the Watt Phra Inkosi near Siem-<br/>
Khemvit comes to the scene riding<br/>
upon the snake only being carried<br/>
by us to a division of labour as in the<br/>
"Naga Maya" of Java, where the<br/>
image of the mountain and that of<br/>
the snake god are related as distinct<br/>
data. At Watt Ek near Battabong<br/>
the snake god winds his folds round<br/>
Mont Meru, or Mandara, and in a<br/>
chronological history of Cambodia<br/>
which I translated at Bangkok the<br/>
same fact is alluded too. The most<br/>
interesting sculpture at Nakhon Watt<br/>
is in two compartments called by the<br/>
natives, the procession and the three<br/>
stages, heaven, earth and hell.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first the Pathu-massury-wong<br/>
on returning from the city sur-<br/>
rounded by his court and his wives<br/>
in litters. He is carried on in a<br/>
procession of his warriors on foot<br/>
and horseback, each chief heading<br/>
followers on Elephants. I counted<br/>
[..] 1000 figures, or at least heads<br/>
[...] single department. What gives<br/>
[...] interest to this section is the<br/>
fact that the artist has represented the<br/>
different nationalities in all their dis-<br/>
tinctive characteristics in mode and<br/>
[...], from the flat nosed savage in<br/>
[...] garb of the Prom, and the<br/>
[..] haired Los to the straight nosed<br/>
[...] with sword and shield, and<br/>
[....] Moor with a catalogue of<br/>
qualities like another column of<br/>
[..] In the predominate physical<br/>
formation of each race, on the<br/>
whole there is such a prevalence of<br/>
specific cast in the features and pro-<br/>
portions, as well as the elegant attitudes<br/>
of horsemen, that one might sup-<br/>
pose Xenocrates of old, after finishing<br/>
his labors in Bombay, had made an<br/>
excursion to the East. The Chinese<br/>
"Min-thanang" compared the<br/>
features of the Ceylonese to the<br/>
features of a bird, and the Cambodians<br/>
are not less surprised at the prominent<br/>
peculiarities displayed in these sculp-<br/>
tures, which are so decidedly different from the<br/>
type in which they themselves for<br/>
the most part rejoice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The department called the three<br/>
stages the natives believe they see the<br/>
representation of Heaven, Earth and<br/>
Hell, but I have reason to doubt this<br/>
interpretation. The lower stage it is<br/>
represented on one half, the world<br/>
of men, and on the other different<br/>
animals, but the two upper stages appear<br/>
to represent the history of the manner in<br/>
which savage tribes were civilised by<br/>
colonising foreigners, and must have<br/>
reference to the foundation of these<br/>
ancient monuments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The far advanced out posts on the<br/>
wild mountain forests which are visi-<br/>
ble from the windows when walking<br/>
through the majestic colonnades,<br/>
those who refused the new religion<br/>
offered to them, were precipitated into<br/>
the hell below; whereas the reborn<br/>
converts entered the palaces which<br/>
appear on the upper stages immediate-<br/>
ly above it. The middle one, not be-<br/>
ing continued, particulars of these in-<br/>
structive pictures I shall have to defer<br/>
till the publication of the drawings<br/>
illustrative of them, which were exe-<br/>
cuted by a native painter whom I had<br/>
taken with me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One subject which frequently occurs<br/>
in these sculptures shows the head-<br/>
dress of the rude barbarians, being<br/>
changed by the king, who adds flowers<br/>
and ornaments. Tassals in richly ad-<br/>
orned head-dresses called Thepha Kan-<br/>
ya or Chao Savan dwellers in Heaven<br/>
are sculptured neatly in life size. On<br/>
every part of the building forming the<br/>
retinue of the deified kings they cor-<br/>
respond to the Wedadari of Javanese<br/>
Mythology, but they are designated by<br/>
the Cambodians of to-day in grateful<br/>
remembrance of benefits received as<br/>
the benevolent or kind hearted Ladies.<br/>
The varieties of the head-dress are<br/>
manifold, but that which occurs most<br/>
frequently towers up in three high<br/>
points. The name Ketsmales the<br/>
father of king Pathu-massury-wong,<br/>
one of the race of the sun-born lotus,<br/>
means, when translated the head ad-<br/>
orned with garlands,are mostly Champa<br/>
flowers. There are a great many in-<br/>
scriptions scattered all over the build-<br/>
ings at Nakhon Watt, some of them<br/>
are modern, written with Cambodian<br/>
letters and in the language now spoken<br/>
by the people. Their purport is to<br/>
describe the offerings made, and give<br/>
the name of the worshipper. The<br/>
other inscriptions are written in a<br/>
character, which likewise for the most<br/>
part resembles the Bali, and therefore<br/>
the Cambodian letters, but in a more<br/>
antiquated form approaching that of<br/>
the Kawi inscriptions, and sometimes<br/>
deviating considerable. The language<br/>
differs from the vernacular Cambodian<br/>
as well as from the Bali, and is not<br/>
understood now. When the ruins<br/>
were discovered in 1570 the inscrip-<br/>
tions were already, as De Maneando<br/>
remarks, unintelligible to the Cambo-<br/>
dians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With the help of some priests in<br/>
Udung, I have however succeeded in<br/>
deciphering some names, and I am<br/>
still busy with them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The modern inscriptions every lit-<br/>
terate Cambodian can read.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In one of the galleries a square ta-<br/>
blet of black marble has been set into<br/>
the wall, bearing an inscription which<br/>
my guide told me contained the his-<br/>
tory of the building. I had it copied<br/>
and as it was written in the common<br/>
Cambodian, interspersed with some<br/>
obsolete expressions, I had it read to<br/>
me and translated, but found it only<br/>
to contain a long discription of offer-<br/>
ings made by different donors, inter-<br/>
spersed with some interesting allusions<br/>
to mythological objects. The date was<br/>
1628 probably of the Maha sakkarrat.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The central of the five towers of<br/>
the inner circle in the temple of Na-<br/>
khon Watt forms an octagon, with<br/>
four larger and four smaller sides. On<br/>
each of the four larger sides, opening<br/>
out in gates which face the four hori-<br/>
zontal points, stands a large figure of<br/>
Buddha overlooking from its high<br/>
position the surrounding country. This<br/>
open exposure of the statues is the<br/>
very counterpart to their concealment<br/>
in the vaulted cells of Pagan, where<br/>
the statue in the Ananda temple is to<br/>
be illuminated by artificial light and<br/>
in the rock cut Basilicas of the Dek-<br/>
kan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This combination of four Buddhas<br/>
occurs frequently in Cambodia, and<br/>
is there called Phra Muk Buen, (Phra<br/>
si na) in Siamese,-—or the Lord with<br/>
four faces—although not only the faces<br/>
but the whole bodies are four-fold,<br/>
and Chatua Baya four shouldered<br/>
would be more appropriate. If sculp-<br/>
tured on the Watt three faces only<br/>
can become visible, but if standing<br/>
free a fourth face is added to the<br/>
Trimurti. A four faced deity is<br/>
worked out in gigantic proportion on<br/>
the large gate on Nakhon Luang, and<br/>
is there called Phrahun or Brahma,<br/>
signifying the protection given by the<br/>
all seeing god, which was afterwards<br/>
transferred by the Buddhists to the<br/>
four Pala. As this direction to the<br/>
four points of the horison naturally<br/>
forms a crossing, the Siamese call a<br/>
crossing (Phrahun) and the Praat<br/>
Prassada. The distinguishing feature<br/>
of these exotic stone monuments of<br/>
Cambodia forms always a cross with<br/>
the corridors dissecting each other at<br/>
right angles. The cross is the de-<br/>
stinctive character for the Doctors of<br/>
reason in the present Buddhism of<br/>
Kasyapa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The corridors are two-fold with<br/>
blocks of stone projecting over each<br/>
other so as to form an arch. Narrower<br/>
arches are formed by the hollow of<br/>
the covering stone resting on two<br/>
stones in the form of a wedge. The<br/>
blocks of stone are fitted together<br/>
without cement but leave scarcely a<br/>
trace of there joinings, and the same<br/>
is to be observed of some contempo-<br/>
raneous brick buildings which are<br/>
found at other places intermixed with<br/>
other stone ruins.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The edifice of Nakhon Watt was,<br/>
as their name City of monasteries,<br/>
signifies, built for the reception of the<br/>
learned patriarch Buddhagosa, who<br/>
brought the holy books of the Trai<br/>
Pedok from Langka, Ceylon. The<br/>
residence of the kings at that time was<br/>
the far famed Inthapataburi, which<br/>
is now in its ruins called Nakon Luang<br/>
—-Royal city, by the Siamese, or Na-<br/>
khon Tom—large city, according to<br/>
the Cambodians, both languages hav-<br/>
ing adopted the Bali word Nakhara.<br/>
Its foundation is referred to a prince<br/>
of Roumah or Ruma, but the story is<br/>
too long to insert here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Connected with the temple of Na-<br/>
khon Watt is the establishment of a<br/>
number of villages inhabited by a<br/>
people called Samre, on the neighbor-<br/>
ing Khao (mountain) Lechi. When-<br/>
ever some work is to be done on the<br/>
temple, the abbot sends a message to<br/>
the mountains (1½ day distant) and<br/>
the required number of laborers has<br/>
to be sent by the head man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The nomination of the abbots, who<br/>
were placed there after the re-discovery<br/>
of the temple in the year 1570, is now<br/>
in the hands of the Governor of Siem-<br/>
rab. The custom to endow a temple<br/>
with slaves was prevalent on the whole<br/>
continent. There were pagoda slaves<br/>
connected with Schewery-dragon in<br/>
Rangoon, and there are still slaves be-<br/>
longing to several pagodas in Birma<br/>
proper. In the latter country they<br/>
were however supplied by prisoners<br/>
of war, Arracanese, Kassay, Peguans<br/>
&c. &c. whereas the Samre belongs to<br/>
the aboriginal stock of the population<br/>
inhabiting most of the hills around<br/>
the lake and thence to Kampot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Leaving the platform of the temple,<br/>
which is fortified by broad moats and<br/>
a stone wall, a two hours ride through<br/>
the forest brings us to the ruins of<br/>
Inthapataburi, the ancient capital of<br/>
Cambodia, now known under the name<br/>
of Nakhon Luang, or Nakhon Tom.<br/>
The ruins are there extensive, and from<br/>
them were taken the stones which<br/>
furnished the material to build the<br/>
fort of Siemrab.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The outer most of the three walls<br/>
encloses a wide arch, which according<br/>
to the natives, it would take a whole<br/>
day from sunrise to sunset to circum-<br/>
ambulate. The second wall was the<br/>
fortification of the city proper, and<br/>
then followed the celestial wall, the<br/>
adamantine one Kampeng Keoh, which<br/>
contained the palace and the royal<br/>
buildings now to be traced in these<br/>
ruins. This system of three fortifica-<br/>
tions, one within another, is a standing<br/>
one in Ultra India, but has recently<br/>
been repeated by the Burmese in<br/>
building their new capital.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One enters the Watt of Nakhon<br/>
Tom, which is built with square blocks<br/>
of iron conglomerated through a mas-<br/>
sive structure forming the gate, the<br/>
upper part of which is worked at the<br/>
four sides into a face of Phrahm.<br/>
The Chinese traveler of 1295 mentions<br/>
a five faced Buddha of stone placed<br/>
above the gates of the Cambodian<br/>
capital. The space inside the Watt<br/>
is mostly overgrown with jungle, but<br/>
here and there are some spots cleared<br/>
for the planting of rice, or a bamboo<br/>
hut is perched on heaps of rubbish<br/>
under which the stone and brick<br/>
buildings of the old capital are buried.<br/>
Large images of Buddha of modern<br/>
make are put on some old foundations;<br/>
but in that dedicated to the protecting<br/>
Deity of the Town we find an ancient<br/>
figure of the Elephant headed Ganese.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Siam every town has a larger or<br/>
smaller chapel for the honor and the<br/>
preservation of the Lak Muang—-the<br/>
Town pillar, an injury to which would<br/>
bring destruction on the citizens. The<br/>
tree is still pointed out at Nakhon<br/>
Tom under which the leader of the<br/>
emigration buried the golden umbrella<br/>
—the emblem of Royalty, and by this<br/>
artifice got possession of the country<br/>
which had before been occupied by<br/>
the Dayms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The palace was situated on an em-<br/>
inence, and a stair case which leads up<br/>
to what remains of the second story.<br/>
The corridors are in the same style as<br/>
those in Nakhon Watt, but lower and<br/>
of a more rude workmanship, wanting<br/>
the high finish and elegance which<br/>
distinguishes every part of the former.<br/>
The figures also of men and animals<br/>
which are sculptured on some of the<br/>
walls, show a more primitive style of<br/>
execution, bolder but less graceful and<br/>
probably older than those in Nakhon<br/>
Watt. One of the finest specimens<br/>
still possessed of these bye gone times<br/>
is the statue of the last King Phya<br/>
Khi Ruen or Phra bat Songkaya, who<br/>
reigned in Nakhon Luang, and was<br/>
afflicted with leprosy for having desert-<br/>
ed the snake worship of his ancestors.<br/>
A great number of stone inscriptions<br/>
in the ancient character called Akson<br/>
Mihing, are found at Nakhon Luang<br/>
on the pillars and on the walls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(To be Continued.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">49</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">56</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">80</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">75</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Sup. mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Ord.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Inf.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">51</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">42</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">96</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P picul</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Brown No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Cow</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Deer</td>
 <td>do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUM BENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mixed</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">24</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">23</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">25</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE—</td>
 <td>Nominally</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">280</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">88</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6 @ 7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8 @ 9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">380</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>7 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaslit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10 1/4</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mussels</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9 1/2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">250</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF—</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">17</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Ticals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE-On Singapore 7 [?] cent<br/>
premium 10 d. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS.—There is no unchartered<br/>
vessels in port. First arrivals are likely<br/>
to have from 35 to 40 cents per picul for<br/>
Singapore, and from 45 to 50 cents per<br/>
picul for Hongkong. Small vessels of<br/>
light draught will be required in a month<br/>
or two to take fish and salt to Java.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We report the following charters viz:—<br/>
"Gosine Brons" 10,000 pls. at 45 cents<br/>
inside, and 40 cents per pl. outside.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Florence Nightingale" 11,000 pls. at<br/>
45 cents all round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Chili" 10,500 pls. at 45 cents all round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Admiral de Winter" 19,500 at 50 cents<br/>
all round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed this<br/>
month viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship "Paragon" for Amoy with<br/>
400 pls. pepper, 5000 rice, 11000 sapan-<br/>
wood, 1000 sugar, 200 teelseed, 600 mus-<br/>
sels, 100 peas, 2000 saltfish, 500 paddy,<br/>
200 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship "Resolution" for Hong Kong,<br/>
with 250 pls. pepper, 5700 rice, 2800 sa-<br/>
panwood, 2000 paddy, 520 mussels, 610<br/>
rosewood, 1000 teakplanks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam lugger "Kim Hong Tye" for<br/>
Hong Kong, with 300 pls. pepper, 2500<br/>
rice, 275 paddy, 1000 rosewood, 100 wood-<br/>
en knees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Heng Hoi" for Shanghai<br/>
with 1154 pls. pepper, 285 rice, 856 sa-<br/>
panwood, 229 sugar, 2020 rosewood, 800<br/>
mussels, 25 tortoise shells.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Prospero" for Cochin Chi-<br/>
na, with 1050 pls. rice, 851 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Cathee" for Hong Kong<br/>
with 599 pls. pepper, 3633 rice, 885 sa-<br/>
panwood, 616 sugar, 48 hemp, 376 mus-<br/>
sels, 179 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Indian Warrior" for Hong<br/>
Kong, with 1500 pls. pepper, 2500 rice,<br/>
3000 sapanwood, 2600 paddy, 150 mus-<br/>
sels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Enterprise" for Hong Kong<br/>
with 11605 pls. rice, 225 sapanwood, 158<br/>
green peas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner "Erin" for Hong<br/>
Kong, with 2760 pls. rice, 90 teelseed, 69<br/>
hemp, 120 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Bentik" for Hong Kong,<br/>
with 50 pls. hides, 35 horns, 7436 rice,<br/>
270 sapanwood, 20 tin, 125 mussels, 387<br/>
cotton, 970 mangrove bark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bremen bark, "Brems" for Hong Kong<br/>
with 634 pls. pepper, 4485 rice, 500 su-<br/>
gar, 250 paddy, 80 green peas, 16 hemp<br/>
500 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam lugger "Kim Soon Wat" for Hong,<br/>
Kong, with 31 pls. pepper, 4505 rice, 32<br/>
teelseed, 250 paddy, 104½ pls. cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Goliah" for Hong Kong,<br/>
with 984 pls. pepper, 6337 rice, 1388<br/>
sapanwood, 1239 paddy, 684 rosewood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singa-<br/>
pore,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam steamer "Chow Phya" with 115<br/>
pls. horns, 3815 rice, 432 sticklac, 1919<br/>
sugar, 38 teelseed, 10 silk, 10 hemp, 209<br/>
salt fish, 183 pepper, 18 hides, 7 ivory.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner "Clio" with 350 pls.<br/>
pepper, 2163 rice, 25 sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam brig "Mercury" with 1780 pls.<br/>
rice, 400 sugar, 36 teelseed, 19½ coyans<br/>
salts
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "August" with 9600 pls. rice,<br/>
262 sapanwood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
British schooner "Water Lily" with<br/>
2578 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Hera" with 1800 pls. pep-<br/>
per, 8000 rice, 225 sapanwood, 108 tin.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Trichinae.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Professors in the Academy of<br/>
Sciences, Chicago, Ill., have recommend-<br/>
ed the following means of defense against<br/>
the ravages of the trichinae.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now that the existence of trichinae in<br/>
our pork has been established beyond a<br/>
doubt, it will be proper for us to point<br/>
out all known means of defence against<br/>
its ravages. First, with regard to the<br/>
rearing of hogs. These animals undoub-<br/>
tedly become infested through the eating<br/>
of flesh of some kind, since no trichinae,<br/>
nor germs of trichinae, have ever been<br/>
found in any vegetable food. A strict<br/>
attention to the feeding of hogs, and<br/>
their confinement in pens where no animal<br/>
food is accessible, is an infallible preven-<br/>
tive against trichinosis in them. Such<br/>
management is all the more necessary,<br/>
since European authorities agree that it<br/>
is impossible to diagnose the disease in<br/>
the animal from external appearances,<br/>
and no culpability can therefore attach to<br/>
the farmer for selling hogs which prove<br/>
to be affected with trichinae.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to pork the origin of which<br/>
is doubtful, the use of the microscope is<br/>
primarily indicated. With this instrum-<br/>
ent only can we ascertain with certainty<br/>
whether the muscles of the hogs are free<br/>
from the parasite. The general use of<br/>
the instrument is, however, impracticable,<br/>
unless a system of microscopic inspection<br/>
be adopted here, as in Europe, at the<br/>
great packing establishments. But we<br/>
have in our power much more simple<br/>
means of insuring safety in the consump-<br/>
tion of pork. It is simply necessary to<br/>
cook it thoroughly, so that every portion<br/>
of the meat shall have experienced a<br/>
temperature of at least 160 degrees<br/>
Fahrenheit. We cannot insist too strong-<br/>
ly upon this point. Again, by properly<br/>
salting and smoking the meat for a<br/>
period of at least ten days, the trichinae,<br/>
should they exist, will be certainly killed.<br/>
Simple desiccation of the meat, if con-<br/>
tinued for a period of sufficient length,<br/>
will also kill them. They will never be<br/>
found alive in old hams, for instance.<br/>
On the other hand, mere pickling appears<br/>
to have very little effect upon these<br/>
worms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Trichinae have doubtless always existed<br/>
in the muscles of the hog, although pro-<br/>
bably not to the same extent as at present.<br/>
And trichinosis in man may have existed<br/>
to a considerable extent in this country<br/>
before its nature and cause became<br/>
known. Some of the members of your<br/>
committee can recall cases of obscure<br/>
disease which have come to their know-<br/>
ledge in past years, which may have been<br/>
owing to the presence of trichinae.-—New<br/>
YORK OBSERVER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A friend called on Michael Angelo,<br/>
who was finishing a statue. Some time<br/>
afterwards he called again: the sculptor<br/>
was still at work. His friend, looking at<br/>
the figure, exclaimed, "Have you been<br/>
idle since I saw you last?" "By no<br/>
means," replied the sculptor; "I have<br/>
retouched and polished that; I have sof-<br/>
tened this feature and brought out this<br/>
muselo; I have given more expression to<br/>
this limb." "Well, well," said his friend,<br/>
"all these are trifles." "It may be so,<br/>
replied Angelo, "but recollect that TRIFLES<br/>
MAKE PERFECTION, and that PERFECTION<br/>
is NO TRIFLE."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A WONDERFUL TREE.—In the birch<br/>
wood of Culloden, Scotland, there is a re-<br/>
markable tree, well worthy of note. About<br/>
thirty years ago, a young giant of the forest<br/>
was blown down, and fell across a deep<br/>
gully or ravine, which it completely span-<br/>
ned, and the top branches took root on the<br/>
other side. From the parent stem no less<br/>
than fifteen trees grew up perpendicularly,<br/>
all in a row; and there they still flourish,<br/>
in all their splendor, while the parent stem<br/>
evinced no token of decay. Several of the<br/>
trees are not less than thirty feet high.<br/>
The tree is a birch ft.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ancient Egyptian Fashions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Egyptians shaved their heads and<br/>
chins, and looked with abhorrence on the<br/>
rough-haired and long-bearded Asiatic<br/>
nations. They only allowed their hair<br/>
and beard to grow when in mourning, and<br/>
looked upon it, in any other circumstan-<br/>
ce, as a sign of low and slovenly habits.<br/>
Most of them wore over their shaven polls<br/>
wigs made of curled hair, with a series<br/>
of plaits at the back. Poor people, who<br/>
could not afford the expense of real hair,<br/>
had theirs made of black sheep's wool.<br/>
By a singular contradiction, the great<br/>
people wore artificial beards, which they<br/>
likewise affixed to the images of their<br/>
gods. The beard of an individual of rank<br/>
was short and square, but much longer;<br/>
and that of a god was pointed, and turn-<br/>
ed up at the end. Ladies wore their hair<br/>
long, and worked into a multitude of<br/>
small plaits, part of which hung down<br/>
their back, and the remainder descended<br/>
on each side of the face, covering the<br/>
ears completely. They generally had an<br/>
ornamented fillet round the head, with a<br/>
bud in front by way of a FERBONIRE.<br/>
Some of the CREME DE LA CREME indulg-<br/>
ed in a head-dress representing a peacock,<br/>
whose gorgeous plumage set off their dark<br/>
tresses; and princesses were usually dis-<br/>
tinguished by a COIFFURE of extraordinary<br/>
dimensions, combining all the riches of<br/>
the animal, vegetable, and mineral king-<br/>
doms.—RIMMEL's Book of PERFUMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRESERVATION OF FRUIT.—At the Rus-<br/>
sian Court fruit is preserved by being<br/>
packed in creosotized lime. The lime is<br/>
slacked in water in which a little creo-<br/>
sote has been dissolved, and is allowed to<br/>
fall to powder. The bottom of a plain<br/>
deal box is covered with it one inch thick,<br/>
and over it is a sheet of paper. Upon<br/>
this the fruit, well selected and cleansed,<br/>
is arranged; over this another sheet of<br/>
paper, and on the top of this another<br/>
stratum of prepared lime; in the corners<br/>
a little finely powdered charcoal is put.<br/>
The whole box is then filled in the same<br/>
manner, and the well-fitting lid nailed<br/>
down. Fruit kept in this manner will re-<br/>
main intact at least one year.—PRESBY-<br/>
TERIAN
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
"Fine Writing."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the loveliest women are not gaudy<br/>
women, so the most excellent writing is<br/>
not "fine writing." A thought that is<br/>
overdressed must be of the highest worth<br/>
not to be criticised as meretricious. Splen-<br/>
dor of diction must have the big brain of<br/>
a Burke or a Milton back of it to render<br/>
it admissible. The great masters of style,<br/>
however, as Homer, Demosthenes, Dante,<br/>
Shakspeare, are splendid by virtue of their<br/>
magnificent naked thoughts. Their words<br/>
are thunder because their thoughts are<br/>
lightning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But there is a vast brood of writers<br/>
now-a-days that "spread themselves" on<br/>
language. They are nothing if not mag-<br/>
niloquent. Rainbows, birds-of-paradise,<br/>
and peacocks' tails are their staple colors,<br/>
which they lavish over all creation. They<br/>
gather up the four winds of heaven and<br/>
blow everything sky-high. They pile the<br/>
agony upon all they behold. They des-<br/>
cribe a dog-fight in language stately<br/>
enough to depict the Battle of the Py-<br/>
ramids.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Headly is of this high-pressure style<br/>
and Abbott, and George Lippard. Sou-<br/>
thern writers are nearly all keyed up to<br/>
this intensely strained and pop-eyed pitch.<br/>
Indeed, these latter are always eating fire<br/>
and splitting ribbons of chain lightning<br/>
and blue blazes. Every one of them<br/>
stands, as it were, constantly with "one<br/>
foot on the Andes and the other on the<br/>
Ganges," and howls his awful eloquence<br/>
to the nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Youth is very much addicted to this<br/>
"fine writing." It is natural. Spring for<br/>
flowers. But it is not the fruit-blooms<br/>
that flower all summer. The style which<br/>
would yield intellectual food must cast<br/>
the painted metal and betake itself to the<br/>
green leaf.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
You must quit "fine writing" early if<br/>
your ambition is to produce anything ac-<br/>
ceptable to refined taste. Strip your<br/>
thoughts as naked as ever they were born,<br/>
if you wish them to fight well in the world.<br/>
Go as direct to your theme as a streak of<br/>
lightning. Ride right down upon it like<br/>
a charging cavalryman. Fill your words<br/>
up with thought, so that they shall weigh<br/>
seventeen or eighteen pounds a piece.<br/>
Weigh each word and see that it comes<br/>
up to that standard before you say it.<br/>
Nobody wants your words. Your thoughts<br/>
—-your own-—everybody is interested in.<br/>
What do you think? Say—-and quit your<br/>
froth and fustain. We desire no more<br/>
"fine writing." John S. C. Abbott, for<br/>
instance, has furnished enough to last to<br/>
the end of the world.—-XENIA TORCH-<br/>
LIGHT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-23_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Nile.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. R. DUNN, correspondent of the Lon-<br/>
don MORNING STAR, in a letter from Suez,<br/>
under date of February 21, thus speaks<br/>
of that most wonderful river in the world<br/>
-—the Nile:—“The great NATURAL pe-<br/>
culiarity of Egypt, and that which not<br/>
only distinguishes it from all other coun-<br/>
tries, but is the cause of all its other pe-<br/>
culiarities, is the wonderful Nile. The<br/>
immense quantity of water necessary to<br/>
cause the continued rise of a river with a<br/>
good strong channel, ordinarily from a<br/>
half to one and a half miles wide, is<br/>
widened to from five to fifty miles in<br/>
width, is astonishing, and almost sufficient<br/>
still to stimulate the belief that some<br/>
divine agency, rather than the rains of<br/>
Abyssinia, must be the cause. And this<br/>
appears still more strange, when it is re-<br/>
membered that not a single spring or<br/>
branch of any kind enters it within a<br/>
thousand miles of its mouth. It is strange<br/>
indeed, that in so hot a climate and so<br/>
vast an extent, the volume of water is<br/>
not diminished by absorption and evpora-<br/>
tion; and perhaps the fact that the wat-<br/>
ers seem to extend through the entire<br/>
valley upon the same level with the Nile,<br/>
can alone explain this continued fulness.<br/>
The sands from the deserts, which bound<br/>
this valley upon either side, seem to be<br/>
constantly crowding in upon the fertile<br/>
soil, while the deposits of the river, which<br/>
have raised its bed and banks about fif-<br/>
teen feet within three thousand six hund-<br/>
red years, are crowding in upon the de-<br/>
serts, and thus, as elsewhere in nature.<br/>
antagonism maintains the equilibrium."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DR. LIVINGSTONE AT ZANZIBAR.—-The<br/>
Rev. Edwin Sidney has recently received<br/>
a letter from Dr. Livingstone. It ap-<br/>
pears that he has taken with him a num-<br/>
ber of tame Indian buffaloes, to introduce<br/>
into Africa; and as, like the African ones,<br/>
they do not suffer much from that terrible<br/>
pest the Tzetze, it is hoped they may be<br/>
acclimatized. Hitherto there have been<br/>
no beasts of burden as such in Central<br/>
Africa. The intrepid explorer and mis-<br/>
sionary has also taken with him nine re-<br/>
captured Africans, educated in the Go-<br/>
vernment School at Bombay, who are<br/>
Christians, and willing to work, and the<br/>
Doctor has great hopes that they will<br/>
prove valuable pioneers and coadjutors.<br/>
—-BURY POST.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MOVEMENT AGAINST POLYGAMY IN IN-<br/>
DIA.-—The leading natives of Bengal, the<br/>
learned pundits, the wealthy zemindars,<br/>
the old aristocracy, and, above all, the<br/>
orthodox Brahmins, have all united, to<br/>
the number of 21,000, in praying Govern-<br/>
ment to put down polygamy. An Act<br/>
for this purpose was about to be passed<br/>
in 1856, just after that allowing widows<br/>
to remarry, when the mutiny broke out.<br/>
Mr. Beadon has pledged himself to intro-<br/>
duce a Bill into the Council next Novem-<br/>
ber, in order, to use his own cautious<br/>
words, “to impose upon a custom, alto-<br/>
gether demoralizing, the utmost degree<br/>
of restriction consistent with the reason-<br/>
able opinions and wishes of the intelligent<br/>
Hindoo public.”—-CORE LONDON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RIGHT.—Governor Orr, of South Caro-<br/>
lina, has expressed his opinion regarding<br/>
the teaching of freed people. He believes<br/>
it is good for them and good for the<br/>
State. He says the teachers shall be<br/>
protected in their duties, and that the<br/>
prejudice against them and their occupa-<br/>
tion is disappearing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TOUGH.—-The SARATOGIAN states that<br/>
Mr. Samuel Downing, of Edinburgh,<br/>
New York, who has the past year been<br/>
prominently before the public as having<br/>
reached the age of 105 years, fell and<br/>
fractured his arm. Still hale and hearty,<br/>
he was engaged at the time in carrying<br/>
wood from a neighbouring field into his<br/>
house. His arm has been set, and he bids<br/>
fair to recover.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
OUR ABILITY TO PAY.—-The British<br/>
people have never raised more than $370,<br/>
000,000 of revenue in one year, exclusive<br/>
of loans. The people of the United States<br/>
are raising revenue this year at the rate<br/>
of $540,000,000 per year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A CASHMERE GOAT.-—A cashmere goat<br/>
has been shipped to Dr. A. C. Farrow,<br/>
of Greencastle, Indiana. Its horns mea-<br/>
sure three feet two inches in length, and<br/>
it is valued at $1000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-During a recent trial at Auburn, the<br/>
following occurred to vary the monotony<br/>
of the proceedings:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Among the witnesses was one ever-<br/>
dant a specimen of humanity as one would<br/>
wish to meet with. After a severe cross<br/>
examination, the counsel of the govern-<br/>
ment paused, and then putting on a look<br/>
of severity, and an ominous shake of the<br/>
head, exclaimed: “Mr. Witness, has not<br/>
an effort been made to induce you to tell<br/>
a different story ?” “A different story<br/>
from what I have told, sir?” “That is<br/>
what I mean.” “Yes sir ; several persons<br/>
have tried to get me to tell a different<br/>
story from what I have told, but they<br/>
couldn’t.” “Now, sir, upon your oath, I<br/>
wish to know who those persons are.”<br/>
“Well, I guess you’ve tried [?]bout as hard<br/>
as any of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
CREAM FOR CONSUMPTIVE PATIENTS,<br/>
—-The Medical Reporter says that a<br/>
consumptive patient, now under<br/>
treatment, is taking cream with better<br/>
effect than was experienced under the<br/>
cod-liver oil, previously tried. Our<br/>
advice is for all who have, consumption<br/>
to a cream diet. Eat the pure, sweet<br/>
cream abundantly, as much of it as<br/>
the stomach will digest well, and we<br/>
doubt not that it will prove quite as<br/>
effectual as the purest cod-liver oil<br/>
that can be bought.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A fool in high station is like a<br/>
man in a balloon—-everybody appears<br/>
little to him, and he appears little to<br/>
everybody.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Surely, the most painful recollec-<br/>
tion on earth is that of having had it<br/>
in our power to do good, and the<br/>
neglect to do it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REPORT BOAT:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers...... $ 1.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passage to or from the Bar...... $ 5.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Special boats to or from the Bar, $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (L. F.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Batavia and Colonial
Sea and Fire Insurance
Companies.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED being Agents for<br/>
the above named Companies are pre-<br/>
pared to accept risks, and to grant policies<br/>
on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}PICKENPACK THIES & Co.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, January, 14th 1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
