---
linkTitle: 'March 15th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 15th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 15th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 33
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, March 15th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 10.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Sokan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Continued from No. 5.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the reign of P'rā-bāt Sóm-detch<br/>
P'rā-pôôt t'i-lôt-la-Nap'alie there<br/>
were three royal sons and one royal<br/>
daughter who were titled Sómdetch<br/>
P'rā-chòw-lòk-t'o'-chòwfa. The eld-<br/>
est was a son born in the year of the<br/>
rat, 8th of the decade—-civil era 1178,<br/>
christian era 1816. His name was<br/>
Chòwfa Ah P'awn. The second was<br/>
a son born in the year of the rabbit,<br/>
1st of the decade, civil era 1181,<br/>
christian era 1819. His name was<br/>
Chòwfa-Mahá-Mala. The third was<br/>
a daughter born in the year of the<br/>
great dragon, 2nd of the decade, civil<br/>
era 1182, christian era 1821. She<br/>
died on the day of her birth. The<br/>
fourth was born in the year of the<br/>
horse, 4th of the decade, civil era<br/>
1184, christian era 1822. His name<br/>
was Chòwfa-Péw.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These three Chòwfa princes, the<br/>
king P'rābāt-Sóm-detch P'rā-pôôt'i-<br/>
lôt-la náp'alie determined to honor<br/>
with the most complete dignity of the<br/>
Sókan. But before they attained to<br/>
the suitable age for receiving the Só-<br/>
kan the king deceased in the year of<br/>
the monkey 2nd of the decade, civil<br/>
era 1186, christian era 1824.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P'rā-bāt-Sóm-detch-P'rā-NāngKlòw<br/>
succeeded to the throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the reign of P'rā-bāt-Sóm-detch<br/>
P'rā-Pôôt'i-lot-la náp'a-lie there were<br/>
two Sókan festivals in the palace of the<br/>
second king;-—to wit-—one for P'rāong<br/>
Chòw Pông Isăwárête, in the 4th<br/>
month of the year of the monkey, 4th<br/>
of the decade, civil era 1174, chris-<br/>
tian era 1813-—and one for P'rā-ong<br/>
Chòw-Noi Nărúmon in the 4th<br/>
month of the year of the dog, civil<br/>
era 1176, christian era 1815. On<br/>
these festival occasions there was a<br/>
display of the mount Krilat, but on a<br/>
smaller scale than that in the palace<br/>
of the first king. The ceremonies<br/>
were very similar to the Sókans for<br/>
Chòwfas. This the king granted be-<br/>
cause the two P'rāong Chôws were the<br/>
children of a mother who was the<br/>
daughter of the king of Ton-Bu-ree.<br/>
But inasmuch as the mother was not<br/>
a Chòwfa the children were not pro-<br/>
moted to that honor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This finishes all there is to be said<br/>
of the festivals of the Sókan in the<br/>
reign of P'rābāt Sóm-detch P'a-Pôôt'i<br/>
lôt-la-náp'alei.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the reign of the P'rābāt Sómdet<br/>
P'rā Nāng Klòw Chòw-yu-hua, in<br/>
the year of the dog—-8th decade<br/>
civil era 1188, and in the year of the<br/>
rat 10th of the decade civil era 1190<br/>
christian era 1826 and 1827 and 1828,<br/>
the Rajah of Weang Chan rebelled.<br/>
The country was consequently involv-<br/>
ed in war, and was not in a normal con-<br/>
dition, and the remains of Sómdetch<br/>
P'râ Amârin-t'â-ra-màtǎya remained<br/>
unburned on the throne of Dǒǒsit-mâ-<br/>
há Prasat full two years. After the fu-<br/>
neral obsequies were over, the throne<br/>
Dǒǒsit Mâhâ Prasat needed to be<br/>
repaired, which was done in the year of<br/>
the rat—-10th of the decade. At that<br/>
time Sómdetch P'râ-Chòw Nâng yat'ô<br/>
Chòwfa Ah-P'âwn arrived at the age<br/>
for receiving the Sókan. Prâbât<br/>
Sómdetch P'râ Nâng Klôw the king<br/>
spoke and said the country is still involv-<br/>
ed in war. P'râ Mâhâ Prasat must be<br/>
rebuilt, consequently there will be no place<br/>
where the Sókan ceremonies can be<br/>
held. We will, therefore, have only<br/>
an abridgment of the Sókan. Hence<br/>
preparations were made for the Sókan<br/>
at the throne Sóötei Sâwán-—the new<br/>
Prasít. But there was no mount Kri-<br/>
lat made. The processions were si-<br/>
milar to the full royal Sókan proces-<br/>
sions. On the 4th day morning there<br/>
was a procession for all the insignia<br/>
of royalty. In the afternoon there<br/>
was another procession, and this finish-<br/>
ed the festival ceremonies. This<br/>
was the kind of abridgment of the<br/>
Sókan that obtained in that reign.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the Sókan festival for Sóm-<br/>
det P'râ-chòw-Nawng-ya-t'ô Chòwfa<br/>
Mâhâ-Mala and P'râ Chòw-Nawng-ya-<br/>
t'ô Chòw Péw in the year of the<br/>
rabbit—-3rd of the decade, civil era<br/>
1193—-and the year of the small drag-<br/>
gon 6th of the decade civil era 1186<br/>
took place, there was a royal command<br/>
to have the ceremonies of the same<br/>
grade as those that were had for Sóm-<br/>
det P'râ-chôw Nawng-ya-t'ô Chòwfa<br/>
AhP'âwn and no more: consequently<br/>
the processions were the same, with<br/>
only this difference that these were<br/>
held at the throne Dǒǒsit'â Mâhâ<br/>
p'rasít.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now these three occasions of con-<br/>
ferring the honors of the Sókan gave<br/>
rise to much whispering and grumb-<br/>
ling among the people, saying that<br/>
there was no proper authority to en-<br/>
force the old custom of the Sókan,<br/>
and that therefore it was passed over<br/>
in regard to those two persons so<br/>
slightly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the palace of the 2nd king of<br/>
that reign there were three different<br/>
occasions of the Sókan festival with<br/>
royal processions for the young prin-<br/>
ces—-but they were only for P'râong<br/>
chôw—-and not for a Chòwfa. The<br/>
2nd king had a royal son by a mother<br/>
who was a princess—and bore<br/>
the name of P'râong Chòw Dara-wâdee<br/>
and was the daughter of the 2nd king<br/>
of the previous reign viz—-the reign of<br/>
Prabât Sómdet P'râ P'óöt ti yawt fa<br/>
Chǒǒlaloke. This royal son had he<br/>
been ranked according to the written<br/>
laws of the land should have been<br/>
constituted a Chòwfa. But the king<br/>
P'râbât Sómdetch P'râ Nâng-klôw did<br/>
not favor the prince with that promo-<br/>
tion. He only gave him the name<br/>
P'râong Chôw Itsâ-rap'ong. Before<br/>
this prince arrived at the age suitable<br/>
for receiving the Sókan, the 2nd<br/>
king died. When subsequently he<br/>
received the honors of the Sókan, it<br/>
was done in the place of the 1st king,<br/>
but not with the usual royal proces-<br/>
sions of a full Sókan. He was only<br/>
allowed the honors usually given to<br/>
P'râong Chòws; consequently there was<br/>
much whispering and grumbling among<br/>
the people, saying that this slackness<br/>
of following royal custom obtained<br/>
because there was no suitable author-<br/>
ity for enforcing the proper custom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
P'râbât Sóm[det]ch P'râ Nâng-Klôw<br/>
the king was pleased to adopt a<br/>
daughter of one of his sons. She was<br/>
only a Mâwm Chòw a daughter of<br/>
P'râong Chôw Lâkânanǒǒkoon who<br/>
had previously died, She was only<br/>
7 months old when the king adopted<br/>
her. He favored her greatly, even<br/>
more than any of his own children,<br/>
and gave her the name Sómânât Wât'â-<br/>
na-wâdee engraved on a gold plate<br/>
—-and granted her all the favors that<br/>
are usually granted to those who are<br/>
to become Chôwfas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The festival ceremonies of her pro-<br/>
motion from a Mâwm Chòw to a<br/>
P'râong Chòw were very similar to<br/>
those for the promotion of the P'râong<br/>
Chôw-ying which constituted that<br/>
princess Chôwfa Kôön-t'on-t'ip'âwadee<br/>
in the reign of P'râbât Sóm[det] P'râ-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
pôôti-yawtsa Chôôla-lôke. When<br/>
P'râong-Chôw Sômânâât Wâtanawâdee<br/>
increased in years and stature until<br/>
she attained to the suitable age for<br/>
receiving the honors of Sôkan in the<br/>
year of the horse 8th of the decade,<br/>
civil era 1208, christian era 1856, the<br/>
king then gave a command to have pre-<br/>
parations made for her Sókan with<br/>
royal processions and other ceremo-<br/>
nies nearly equal to those that were<br/>
customary for a Chòwfa, with only<br/>
this difference that there was no Kri-<br/>
lât mountain. In the place of one<br/>
there was a royal stage made at the<br/>
P'râ-Mâhâ-prâsât for the bathing, and<br/>
a tabernacle for changing the dress of<br/>
the princes. With this exception the<br/>
ceremonies were the same as those<br/>
for a Chôwfa. There were royal<br/>
processions on six successive days.<br/>
But on the 7th day there was none<br/>
made for escorting the hair to the<br/>
river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now these Sôkan honors conferred<br/>
upon that princess, not to speak only<br/>
of the people but also of all the<br/>
princes male and female, the royal,<br/>
children of the king P'râbât-Sômdetch<br/>
P'râ-Nang-Klòw—all these murmur-<br/>
ed because P'râ-ong-Chòw Sômânat<br/>
Watanawadee was honored more than<br/>
any one of the children of the king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The account of the festivals of the<br/>
Sôkans in the reign of P'râbât-Sóm-<br/>
detch-P'râ-Nang-Klòw is here ended.<br/>
The reign of P'râbât-Sômdeich-P'râ-<br/>
Nâng-Klôw ceased in the year of the<br/>
hog, 3rd of the decade, civil era 1213<br/>
—-christian era 1851. At that time<br/>
all the royal counsellors consisting of<br/>
princes nobles and lords were unanim-<br/>
ous in inviting to the throne Sômdeich<br/>
P'râ-Chôw nawng-ya-t'ô Chôwfa<br/>
Mongkut, who was accordingly enthron-<br/>
ed in the palace of the Supreme king.<br/>
Sômdetch P'râ-Chów-Nawng-ya-t'ô<br/>
Chówfa Isâwârûte-Chôôt'amânee was<br/>
at the same time invited to the throne<br/>
of the 2nd king with the usual honors<br/>
given to the 2nd king from olden<br/>
time. This was done because this<br/>
prince enjoyed high honors, and was<br/>
known and esteemed by the people<br/>
far and near as having received the<br/>
highest honors of the Sôkan accord-<br/>
ing to three examples previously<br/>
given.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the royal counsellors male<br/>
and female were unanimously in the<br/>
opinion that P'râong Chòw-Sômânâât-<br/>
Wât'ânââdee was a suitable personage to<br/>
become the Queen Consort of the Sup-<br/>
reme king as she enjoyed the high honors<br/>
of the Sôkan like a Chòwfa conferred<br/>
upon her in the reign of P'râbât-Sôm-<br/>
det-P'râ-Nâng-Klôw, and had a name<br/>
and honors universally known. Hence<br/>
the princes nobles and lords presented<br/>
her to His Majesty the king as his<br/>
Consort to whom was given the name<br/>
SômdetCh P'râ-Nâng-t'ô. She was<br/>
thus promoted to the highest rank in<br/>
the royal harem. She became preg-<br/>
nant and continued her gestation un-<br/>
til the 7th month, when falling sick,<br/>
she gave premature birth to a son<br/>
who was titled Sômdeich P'râ-chow-<br/>
lôôk-t'ô Chòwfa-ch'ai and was named<br/>
Chôw-Sômânâât after his royal mo-<br/>
ther. But he lived only three hours<br/>
because of his having been born so<br/>
prematurely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sômdetch P'râ-Nâng-t'ô the Queen<br/>
Consort continued to decline fifty<br/>
days, when she expired on Sunday<br/>
morning in the year of the rat, 4th<br/>
of the decade, civil era 1214, christ-<br/>
ian era Oct. 10th 1852.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the royal council of<br/>
princes male and female, together with<br/>
all the nobles and lords were unanim-<br/>
ous in presenting to His Majesty the<br/>
Supreme king—the princess P'râong-<br/>
Chòw-Râm-P'ôi-P'râmâra-P'irom from<br/>
daughter of P'râ-Chòw-lôôg who<br/>
was the elder brother of the father of<br/>
the late Queen Consort, to become<br/>
Queen Consort in the place of her<br/>
cousin deceased. This princess was<br/>
from that time called Sômdetch P'râ-<br/>
Nâng-t'ô P'râong-Chòw-Râm-P'ôi-<br/>
P'râmâra-P'irom. She gave birth to<br/>
a son who was named Sômdeich-P'râ-<br/>
Chòw-lôôk-ya-t'ô Chòwfa-chôôla-long<br/>
-korn in the middle of the year of the<br/>
cow-—5th of the decade, civil era 1215,<br/>
christian era September 1853.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the Queen gave birth to a<br/>
daughter who was named Sômdeich<br/>
P'râ-Chòw-lôôk-t'ô Chòwfa-Chânt'â-<br/>
râ-mont'ôn in the year of the rabbit,<br/>
9th of the decade, civil era 1217,<br/>
christian era April 1855.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the Queen gave birth to<br/>
a son who was named Sóm-detch-lòòk<br/>
-t'd Chòwfa Chatdôront'aratsàmée in<br/>
the end of the year of the great<br/>
dragon, 8th of the decade, civil era<br/>
1217, christian era January 1857.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After this the Queen gave birth to<br/>
a 3rd son who was called Sóm-detch<br/>
P'ra-chòw-lòòk-t'd Chòwfa-p'anòò-<br/>
rang-sée in the year of the great,<br/>
dragon 1st of the decade, civil era<br/>
1221, christian era January 1860.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Queen Consort after the birth<br/>
of her fourth child became diseased<br/>
in her lungs and languished a little<br/>
more than a year and expired in the<br/>
10th month of the year of the cock,<br/>
3rd of the decade, civil era 1223,<br/>
christian era September 1862.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Her daughter Princess Chowfa<br/>
Chanta-mont'an deceased in the 6th<br/>
month of the year of the hog, the<br/>
5th of the decade civil era 1225,<br/>
christian era May 1863.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were three remaining Chowfa<br/>
princes offspring of the second Queen<br/>
Consort.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cholera Medicine.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A new York paper gives the follow-<br/>
ing, as a recipe for the cure of the<br/>
Cholera. It is said to have proved<br/>
successful in very many instances,<br/>
during the late plague, at Constan-<br/>
tinople:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mix in a small bottle equal parts of<br/>
the tincture of opium (laudanum;)<br/>
tincture of rhubarb; tincture of capsi-<br/>
cum (red pepper;) tincture of cam-<br/>
phor; essence of pepermint—treble<br/>
strength. Add two drachms of spirits<br/>
of aromatic ammonia. Then shake<br/>
all the ingredients together, cork the<br/>
bottle, and have it ready for instant<br/>
use. It will keep for years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dose—10 drops, 20 drops, or a<br/>
teaspoonful, mixed with a little sugar<br/>
and water; to be taken every fifteen<br/>
minutes, 30 minutes or an hour, ac-<br/>
cording to the severity of the attack<br/>
and the age of the sufferer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This compound is pronounced by<br/>
medical men one of the most judicious<br/>
ever prepared for popular use, but at<br/>
the same time it must be borne in<br/>
mind that it is a medicine which<br/>
should be used delicately, although<br/>
no one can be harmed by it if they<br/>
follow the above directions. A few<br/>
doses generally relieves the patient.<br/>
Children require only half the quantity<br/>
used for grown people."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How to Prevent Cholera.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Among the measures best calculated<br/>
to arrest the spread of the epidemic,<br/>
the most energetic and effectual are<br/>
those intended to bring about a puri-<br/>
fication of the air, and the production<br/>
of ozone or electricized oxygen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Three things have been observed,<br/>
viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That populous cities or quarters in<br/>
those cities, which are badly ventilat-<br/>
ed, or where the inhabitants are dense-<br/>
ly concentrated and packed together,<br/>
offer a sure and easy prey to the<br/>
Cholera:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the Cholera disappears usually<br/>
after a storm.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inference to be drawn from<br/>
these facts is that the pure and health-<br/>
ful air which we breathe in the coun-<br/>
try, is due to the presence of the gas<br/>
which some call ozone, and others,<br/>
electrified oxygen. In cities, the at-<br/>
mosphere absorbed and vitiated by<br/>
thousands of breaths, cannot, and does<br/>
not contain ozone, especially in the<br/>
narrow streets, which are always the<br/>
most densely peopled. During a storm,<br/>
the electric fluid which disengages,<br/>
spreads abroad through the whole at-<br/>
mosphere; ozone is produced; the air<br/>
is purified; the causes of unhealthful-<br/>
ness disappear, and with them their<br/>
innvitable consequence, the Cholera.<br/>
The production of ozone, then, is the<br/>
thing to be chiefly thought of in places<br/>
threatened with the Cholera, and the<br/>
means effecting this are at once cheap<br/>
and simple.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The apparatus is well known: a<br/>
battery of four or five elements decom-<br/>
poses acidulated water, with an ad-<br/>
dition of one tenth of its bulk in sul-<br/>
phuric acid. The hydrogen of the<br/>
water goes to the negative pole, and<br/>
when thus obtained, the gas is thor-<br/>
oughly ozonized. It is only necessary<br/>
then, to distribute quantities of it<br/>
through the air, with a battery in<br/>
every house and in every street, if<br/>
needs be. We shall then see the<br/>
dreaded pestilence checked and neu-<br/>
tralized.—-Boston Med. Journal.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ABROGATION OF EXTRADITON TREATY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following are the precise words<br/>
in which the Moniteur announces the<br/>
abrogation of the extradition treaty<br/>
between France and England already<br/>
reported by telegraph.—"As is well<br/>
known, extradition matters between<br/>
France and England are regulated by<br/>
the convention of the 13th of Febru-<br/>
ary, 1843, which stipulates the reci-<br/>
procal surrender of criminals taking<br/>
refuge in one country from the other,<br/>
and accused of assassination, murder,<br/>
forgery, or fraudulent bankruptcy.<br/>
An experience of more than twenty<br/>
years having demonstrated the ineffi-<br/>
ciency of this treaty, the Emperor's<br/>
Government has resolved to terminate<br/>
it. His Majesty's ambassador in Lon-<br/>
don accordingly made known on the<br/>
4th of December to the Queen's<br/>
Government that the Emperor's Gov-<br/>
ernment, in virtue of the faculty stip-<br/>
ulated in Article 4 of the Convention<br/>
of the 13th of February, 1843, would<br/>
consider the treaty as being no longer<br/>
in operation at the expiration of the<br/>
six months following this declara-<br/>
tion,"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Ages of Public Men.-—The oldest<br/>
Duke is the Duke of Northumberland,<br/>
aged 87; the youngest, the Duke of<br/>
Norfolk, aged 18. The oldest marquis,<br/>
the Marquis of Westmeath, aged 80;<br/>
the youngest, the Marquis of Ely,<br/>
aged 16. The oldest earl, the Earl of<br/>
Onslow, aged 88; the youngest, the<br/>
Earl of Charleville, aged 13. The<br/>
oldest viscount, Viscount Gough, aged<br/>
86; the youngest, Viscount Downe.<br/>
aged 21. The oldest baron, Lord<br/>
Brougham, aged 87; the youngest,<br/>
Lord Rodney, aged 8. The oldest<br/>
member of the Privy Council is Lord<br/>
Brougham, aged; 87 the youngest,<br/>
his Royal Highness the Prince of<br/>
Wales, aged 21. The oldest member<br/>
of the House of Commons is Sir<br/>
William Vernon, Bart, member for<br/>
the county of Armagh, aged 83; the<br/>
youngest, the Earl of Tyrone, mem-<br/>
ber for Waterford, aged 21. The old-<br/>
est judge in England is the Right<br/>
Hon. Stephen Lushington, aged 83;<br/>
the youngest, Sir James P. Wilde,<br/>
49. The oldest judge in Ireland, the<br/>
Right Hon. Thomas Lefroy, Chief<br/>
Justice of the Queen's Bench, aged<br/>
89; the youngest, Justice Keogh, aged<br/>
48. The oldest Scotch Lord of Ses-<br/>
sion, the Right Hon. Duncan M'Neill,<br/>
Lord Justice General. aged 72; the<br/>
youngest, David Mure, aged 54. The<br/>
oldest archbishop, the Archbishop of<br/>
Canterbury, aged 71; the youngest,<br/>
Archbishop of York, aged 46. The<br/>
oldest bishop, the Bishop of Exeter,<br/>
aged 88; the youngest, the Bishop of<br/>
Gloucester and Bristol, aged 46. The<br/>
oldest baronet, Sir Stephen L. Ham-<br/>
mick, aged 88; youngest. Sir Henry<br/>
Hayes Lawrence, aged one year. The<br/>
oldest civil and military knight is Ge-<br/>
neral Sir Arthur B. Clifton, aged 93;<br/>
youngest, Sir Charles T. Bright, aged<br/>
33.-—From Who's Who for 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The following are the emoluments<br/>
of the principal representatives of<br/>
France abroad:—-The Ambassador at<br/>
St. Petersburg, 300,000 francs a year;<br/>
at London, 275,000; at Madrid, 150,<br/>
000; at Rome, 140,000; at Constan-<br/>
tinople, 140,000; at Pekin, 120,000;<br/>
at Berlin, 110,000; and at Washing-<br/>
ton 80,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A law of police against blasphemers<br/>
has just been promulgated by the<br/>
Turkish authorities in Bosnia and<br/>
Herzegovine. Every offence of that<br/>
nature is punishable by a fine of two<br/>
florins and twenty-four hours' impri-<br/>
sonment. But a Turk who speaks<br/>
blasphemy against the Cross is to be<br/>
fined twenty florins, whilst a Christian<br/>
reviling the religion of the Crescent<br/>
is only liable to an indemnity of five.<br/>
With a view to the more becoming<br/>
exercise of public worship, all the<br/>
wine-shops in the immediate neigh-<br/>
bour-hood of mosques or churches are<br/>
to be closed. Lastly, all language<br/>
calculated to wound the honour of<br/>
other persons renders the offending<br/>
party liable to fine and imprisonment.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
March 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
American Affairs.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American journals by the last<br/>
European mail have much less in praise<br/>
of President Johnson's plan of recon-<br/>
struction than formerly. They dis-<br/>
close a vast amount and variety of<br/>
evidence proving but too conclusively<br/>
that a great majority of the leading<br/>
men at the South are far from being<br/>
willingly submissive to the amended<br/>
constitution which constitutes all the<br/>
negroes their fellow citizens, and as<br/>
such equally entitled with themselves<br/>
to "life, liberty and the pursuits of hap-<br/>
piness." It were no wonder that they<br/>
should have still flowing in their veins<br/>
somewhat of the taint of slavery, by<br/>
which they have so long loved to lord<br/>
it over the black men and make them-<br/>
selves nabobs by their unrequited la-<br/>
bor. And it would be a miracle of moral<br/>
transformation if after even many years<br/>
of experience with the negroes as their<br/>
neighbors and fellow citizens, however<br/>
orderly the latter might behave,<br/>
that they should then find them-<br/>
selves in every respect willing that<br/>
the despised race should enjoy equal<br/>
chances with themselves in the race<br/>
of manhood. But the President and<br/>
his sympathizers at the North, in his<br/>
plan of hastening the Southern States<br/>
back into power in Congress, have<br/>
been taken, it would seem, quite aback<br/>
by the late startling developments a-<br/>
mong men in power at the South.<br/>
Though the long proposed amendment<br/>
of the Constitution to kill slavery<br/>
legally throughout all the U. S.<br/>
by ratification of three fourths of all<br/>
the States of the Union, became an es-<br/>
tablished law on the 18th of Dec.<br/>
yet the States which were first to re-<br/>
bel for the sake of the perpetuation<br/>
of slavery to the end of time, are now<br/>
evincing boldly the same spirit by<br/>
their winking at the continued oppres-<br/>
sion of the freedmen in their midst,<br/>
and by the new laws they have framed<br/>
and are framing for the purpose of<br/>
preventing their elevation in the com-<br/>
mon and divine scale of humanity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The President, in view of such dis-<br/>
closures, with a true magnanimity<br/>
akin to that of the illustrious Lin-<br/>
coln, appears to have modified very<br/>
considerably his views of the expe-<br/>
diency of his plan of reconstruction,<br/>
and to be willing to submit it quietly<br/>
to the discision of Congress whether<br/>
it shall be continued or abandoned.<br/>
He evinces, if we mistake not, the best<br/>
republicanism by a ruling desire to<br/>
obey the sovereign people who have<br/>
placed him at the helm of state one<br/>
brief watch of her glorious career. He<br/>
has most honestly thought that the<br/>
people were pleased to have him pur-<br/>
sue the course he has. And now<br/>
since their Majesties have sent their<br/>
representatives to Congress to do their<br/>
bidding, the President is going to hear<br/>
and obey their voice, and steer the<br/>
ship of state according to their dicta-<br/>
tion, without any undue exercise of<br/>
the veto power. Such, at least, is<br/>
our opinion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The present Congress is composed<br/>
of the most loyal, stable, and wise men<br/>
the whole people could select, and the<br/>
question of reconstruction, as well as<br/>
the one of negro suffrage which is the<br/>
great one for discussion by that body,<br/>
we may, under God, safely entrust to<br/>
their decision.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following extracts have a bear-<br/>
ing on this our view of American<br/>
Affairs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A traveler in the South writing to the<br/>
Editor of the N. Y. Indt. on the oppres-<br/>
sion of the Freedmen makes the follow-<br/>
ing horribl report.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of these justices whipped his<br/>
own negro not long since. A plan-<br/>
ter this last week knocked a negro<br/>
with a paddle with which blow he lay<br/>
senseless for two days and when the<br/>
Yankee who had bought the planta-<br/>
tion went out to employ the hands<br/>
he could not get at them, but<br/>
learned afterward that the reason was<br/>
that he had threatened to shoot them<br/>
if they told the fact to this Yankee,<br/>
who brings the story. At the office<br/>
of the Bureau in Mobile, I learned that<br/>
thirty-eight black men had been killed<br/>
in that district, of six counties, within<br/>
three months. And who ever heard<br/>
of any single man being hung for these<br/>
murders?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the last sabbath of November, the<br/>
same record shows the following report<br/>
of crime as against black persons in and<br/>
near Mobile. Dr. Hall struck "Delia"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
several times with a whip, and then<br/>
complained of her for larceny, to a-<br/>
void complaint against himself; and<br/>
the court sent her to thirty days of<br/>
hard labor. James O’Neal cut open<br/>
the head of Jo. Howard whith an ax,<br/>
in the presence of the crew and passed<br/>
on board. James Sweney tried to cut<br/>
the throat of John Hazle, who was a-<br/>
sleep, and failing of that, cut him o-<br/>
ver the forehead and stabbed him in<br/>
the eye. Mc Danies with a shot gun,<br/>
shot at Henry Bolings, on his way to<br/>
church because, when cursed for going<br/>
through an alley, he replied, "This is a<br/>
wrong highway." George W. Davis tried to<br/>
kill Starr with stones and brickbats,<br/>
and left his head in a jelly. Henry<br/>
Downs beat the boys P. Gould, N.<br/>
Gould, and Jessy Ripley, on their<br/>
way to church. Sibly, Stark, and<br/>
Watkins shot and killed Alfred Bufford<br/>
and another negro, and wounded Puff-<br/>
er, because they would not submit to<br/>
be tied up, when there was no civil<br/>
process in the case.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In Choctaw County, Ala, not long<br/>
since, a company of black people were<br/>
waiting at the landing to go down the<br/>
river. They saw Bil Odam coming; all<br/>
ran into the woods but a woman and<br/>
her children, who though sex and in-<br/>
nocence would protect them.-—“Where<br/>
are you going? Down the river, din’t<br/>
you, to the-—Yankees!” “Yes sir.”<br/>
“I’ll show you the way though hell.”<br/>
He drew his bowie-knife, cut her throat,<br/>
that of the girl, nine years old, that of<br/>
the boy seven, then threw the dead<br/>
bodies into the river, and the live ba-<br/>
by after them. On the Tombigbee a<br/>
woman and two children were nailed<br/>
into a hen coop and thrown into the<br/>
river. At Claiborn, on the river, be-<br/>
low the city, six or seven negroes<br/>
were killed at different times. Three<br/>
negroes were sleeping in a corn crib,<br/>
Planter Dudley came up in early mor-<br/>
ning, called them out, shot two with a<br/>
double-barelled gun, and another man<br/>
shot at the third, who escaped, and<br/>
before the superintendent of freed-<br/>
men testified that he saw Dudley kill<br/>
them; and yet, when turned over to<br/>
the civil court, he was cleared, and has<br/>
now run away, and the military are<br/>
trying to re-arrest him. Four miles<br/>
from Claiborn a father, a mother, a<br/>
daughter of seventeen, a boy, and a ba-<br/>
by, which was the child of the mur-<br/>
derer, were all killed by farmer, Sal-<br/>
lie, as he was taking them back home<br/>
after they had tried to get to the Yan-<br/>
kees. Three or four of the ex-slaves<br/>
who came to the Bureau to complain<br/>
were his own children. Four compa-<br/>
nies of coloured troops were at Bladen<br/>
Springs—-abused by white citizens,<br/>
who promised to do better if troops<br/>
were removed. Troops recalled but<br/>
Lieut. Slick left behind sick, with a<br/>
black guard. Meeting of citizens held;<br/>
word sent to the Lieutenant to leave<br/>
in five days; he did so. The same<br/>
meeting also resolved to notify all<br/>
white and black persons who had be-<br/>
friended the colored troops to leave<br/>
in five days; five white families did<br/>
leave, and many blacks, and two old<br/>
black men were shot. Do you wish<br/>
me to stop these horrid recital from of-<br/>
ficial notes? How much worse it is to<br/>
endure the reality!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the legislatures and the murder-<br/>
ers do these things in the green tree,<br/>
what will they do in the dry? If they<br/>
do these things while on their good<br/>
behavior, awaiting their reception in<br/>
Congress, what will they do when re-<br/>
lieved of Federal interference?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The legislature of Louisiana had<br/>
been in session seven days before we<br/>
left, and yet a resolution of Mr.<br/>
Brown, which was seconded only by<br/>
an ominus silence, to festoon the na-<br/>
tional flag behind the speaker’s chair,<br/>
although called for repeatedly by Mr.<br/>
Brown, had not yet been taken off<br/>
from the table. Loyal ladies of New<br/>
Orleans where the session was held,<br/>
had sent a note to speaker offering<br/>
to furnish a nice flag. I have not<br/>
heard the result. "The first state to<br/>
return"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok
Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir.—-We lukewarm foreigners can<br/>
hardly appreciate the degree of feel-<br/>
ing and earnestness which like lumin<br/>
ous golden threads run through the<br/>
pages of one of your late Editorials,<br/>
linking itself with a material far richer<br/>
than even gold or silver, hiring human<br/>
sympathies with an enslaved and op-<br/>
pressed people, in whose cause hamper-<br/>
ed, as we know you are, you still<br/>
bravely struggle on. It is left to those<br/>
who during their long residence have<br/>
quired a correct knowledge of the<br/>
Siamese, to mark the elevating influ-<br/>
ences that so rapidly follow in the<br/>
wake of the "Siamese Recorder." And<br/>
it is not our intention, to tell you all<br/>
that in the stillness of the world with-<br/>
out, and our souls within we have<br/>
thought and felt on this subject. It<br/>
is enough for us to say that we are of<br/>
the least of those who believe that the<br/>
"Recorder" has the right stuff in it<br/>
for success. A paper so evidently<br/>
genuine, honest, and courageous in its<br/>
tone, evincing outwardly the sign of<br/>
a generous, frank, and kindly guiding<br/>
spirit within, can hardly fail to be<br/>
successful in the end. And moreover<br/>
we are of opinion that the obstacles<br/>
that may be thrown in its way, ei-<br/>
ther from within or without, will be<br/>
converted into fresh material for more<br/>
and more striking success. There is<br/>
scarcely an old 'head' amongst us<br/>
who is not conscious that these res-<br/>
trictions and crampings are in reality<br/>
a good and not a bad fortune to the<br/>
Siamese "Recorder," if it but pos-<br/>
sesses itself in patience. Success is not<br/>
attainable "per saltum" a hop-step-<br/>
and a jump, but by singleness of<br/>
purpose and arduous, energetic, ever<br/>
increasing, and never flinching perseve-<br/>
rance. It is the brave resolution to<br/>
do what is right and true and good,<br/>
in spite of obstacles and restriction,<br/>
that lays the substrata of all real<br/>
greatness. Is there a true knight<br/>
amongst us who does not on his very<br/>
knees thank God for the restrictions,<br/>
obstacles and difficulties, that gave<br/>
fresh vigor to his pulses, new inspi-<br/>
rations to his thoughts, deeper and<br/>
more vital stimulus to his exertions and<br/>
led him on from step to step, till he<br/>
reached the haven of his hopes? Conse-<br/>
quently we are assured that all who<br/>
are interested in the social progress<br/>
of this country, will agree that a<br/>
'Paper' which works in a double ca-<br/>
pacity as does the "Recorder" for the<br/>
rich as well as for the poor, for the<br/>
oppressed as well as for the peoples,<br/>
for the king as well as for the peoples<br/>
even though it may be the means of<br/>
revealing an infinity of unwholesome<br/>
practices and every species of abuse,<br/>
under a systematic rule of squeezing,<br/>
robberies, and slave makings the most<br/>
unsightly and loathsome to contem-<br/>
plate, should not only meet with grateful<br/>
acknowledgement, but encouragement,<br/>
and support from the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment, if it is a "goverment" at all in<br/>
any sense of the word, and not be forbid-<br/>
den to the people as it now appears to be.<br/>
Indeed there must be something ra-<br/>
dically wrong and pitiable in the state<br/>
of things that reveals an infectious<br/>
fear, and goes a shivering about, prohibit-<br/>
ing access to that which common sense<br/>
owns to be one of the most universal<br/>
and popular of means adopted for in-<br/>
fusing that wide reaching sympathy,<br/>
which, by bringing the ruler into closer<br/>
contact with the sorrows, joys and<br/>
suffering of the people, calls forth the<br/>
magnanimity and greatness of the one,<br/>
and the strength and confidence of<br/>
the other.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So great a work requires propor-<br/>
tionate agents and means, great men,<br/>
great thoughts, and great acts; and<br/>
alas! how are these to be had, but<br/>
by a liberal policy, and freedom of<br/>
speech through the press? The ruler<br/>
of any people ought to identify his<br/>
interests with that of his subjects.<br/>
And how is he to understand the va-<br/>
rious phases of the social well doing<br/>
of his subjects without such contrib-<br/>
utary information, that a free press<br/>
has the means of eliciting and which<br/>
enables all the most despised and in-<br/>
jured to seek his protection; and if he<br/>
condescend but to touch the spring, it<br/>
will raise at once the lid, and lay a world<br/>
of untold and unheard of oppression<br/>
at his feet. Surely from what we<br/>
know of the present king we have<br/>
a right to believe that he would be<br/>
the last to forbid such access to him-<br/>
self; for one day, on the grounds front-<br/>
ing the palace, we saw him gather to-<br/>
gether with his own hands, and read<br/>
over the complaints and petitions of<br/>
a host of poor half naked wretches.<br/>
Mentally we have had our hats off<br/>
ever since, at the thought or memory<br/>
of this fact: but alas! he little knows<br/>
all the exceptional cases of cruelty<br/>
which must necessarily result from a<br/>
system where so much power is lodged<br/>
in one class of men, and the other per-<br/>
mitted only a nominal protection from<br/>
the law: nor does he know that even<br/>
when the royal command is issued for<br/>
redress to some hapless wretch, his ma-<br/>
gistrates and Koon San and other<br/>
corrupt administrators trample them<br/>
under foot, and instead of redressing<br/>
the wrongs of the unhappy plaintiff,<br/>
they rob him in the shape of "bribes"<br/>
of his world's goods, and send him<br/>
back to a wretched and now poverty<br/>
stricken home the poorer for having<br/>
had faith in the honor of a "court<br/>
of equity" under the flag of the<br/>
white elephant; and thus losing faith<br/>
in goodness and truth, he the aggressed<br/>
becomes the aggressor and commences<br/>
to practice on others that which had<br/>
first been perpetrated on himself.<br/>
Justice is indeed a "bye word" in this<br/>
land. The most prominent feature on<br/>
which the policy of the rulers and admin-<br/>
istrators revolves itself, may be con-<br/>
densed into these emphatic words! "Un-<br/>
to him that hath is given, and from him<br/>
that hath not is taken even that which<br/>
he had."—An enigma to be solved<br/>
only when these fat, slothful, effemi-<br/>
nate, and corrupt Koon San and others<br/>
are brought to know the "magic" of<br/>
a sovereigns displeasure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Every one knows, and knows well,<br/>
that a Siamese court of judicature is<br/>
a sphere in which any bold unscru-<br/>
pulous bad man is pretty sure of real-<br/>
ising a fortune in a year or two, and<br/>
that the mal-administration of justice<br/>
in any land does more than any thing<br/>
else to demoralize the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What shall we then say of the fu-<br/>
ture of a people already steeped to<br/>
the very lips in injustice, cruelty and<br/>
oppression. Every kindly heart waits<br/>
and wonders that justice should slum-<br/>
ber in its way, from such a king as<br/>
we believe the king of Siam to be, to<br/>
such provocations as these,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king whose true policy is be-<br/>
lieved to be "gradual advance," must<br/>
deal with these facts and not with<br/>
sentiments and traditional customs.<br/>
Surely he knows that it is wiser to<br/>
open up and bring to light these abu-<br/>
ses and corruptions, and thereby weed<br/>
the growing evil out of his country,<br/>
than to wait till they grow too strong<br/>
for him, and that to forbid to his<br/>
subjects free access to him as their<br/>
head through a channel so legitimate<br/>
as the press, is a wrong morally, a<br/>
mistake politically, and that it will<br/>
lead to misfortune and abuse practi-<br/>
cally: besides it will nullify his great<br/>
name abroad, his influence at home,<br/>
and in the end snap to the roots the<br/>
loving faith with which his own sub-<br/>
jects regard him at present.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let him but pursue his wonted<br/>
course with his mind clearly alive to<br/>
the advantages of a "free press" and<br/>
ever on the alert to punish and put<br/>
down every instance of injustice and<br/>
oppression that is thus brought under<br/>
his notice, and never let him in the<br/>
present irritation (that the knowledge of<br/>
such "wrong" must cause him) lose<br/>
sight of the true and only lasting<br/>
greatness that must ever be associated<br/>
with liberality, justice, mercy, truth,<br/>
and in particular with the name of one<br/>
so wise, sagacious, and just as he him-<br/>
self undoubtedly is.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours truly
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SPARTACUS.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
To the Editor of the "Bangkok
Recorder"
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir,—A few days ago I was very<br/>
much grieved to hear from a friend<br/>
that the "currently reported" article<br/>
in your issue of the 1st inst. with<br/>
reference to mutilated photographs re-<br/>
ferred to me, and what is worse, that<br/>
many believed it true.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I therefore consider it a duty I owe<br/>
Mr. Thomson (who has left his nega-<br/>
tives in my care) to refute your<br/>
statement as far as it concerns me.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I admit that one day I amused my<br/>
children and self by collecting some<br/>
damaged or condemned photographs<br/>
out of the waste paper basket and<br/>
grouped them together in the most<br/>
comical manner imaginable, and that<br/>
when done I thoughtlessly allowed a<br/>
friend to see them, they were then<br/>
destroyed. I did nothing maliciously<br/>
nor did I think for a moment that<br/>
what I had done would be miscon-<br/>
strued or magnified into the proportion<br/>
it has been, and my friend not per-<br/>
ceiving what mischief might accrue<br/>
from it, if it came to the ears of cer-<br/>
tain individuals who are not over par-<br/>
ticular as to the truth of their state-<br/>
ments, mentioned what he had seen to<br/>
some of his friends, who again retailed<br/>
it with sundry additions until "a<br/>
mountain was made out of a mole hill,"<br/>
and it reached your paper. Some wags<br/>
took up the report and "for a lark"<br/>
told some of their sensitive friends<br/>
they had been caricatured; and one<br/>
gentleman very naturally asked me<br/>
if it was true; I told him it was not.<br/>
But to satisfy any who may be in<br/>
doubt, allow me here to state, that I<br/>
have never for any dishonorable or<br/>
malicious motive mutilated or other-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
wise made use of any person's photo-<br/>
graph. I have never used a negative<br/>
for that purpose neither have I sent<br/>
or even given away a caricatured<br/>
photograph of any description except<br/>
my own which I sent to a friend. I<br/>
may also state that I was the first<br/>
person to tell the parties whose pho-<br/>
tographs I had used of what I had<br/>
done. They laughed heartily about it,<br/>
and did not think an apology neces-<br/>
sary. But one or two evil disposed<br/>
persons have considered it their espe-<br/>
cial duty to fan the flame thus ignit-<br/>
ed and add fuel to the fire for my es-<br/>
pecial benefit. I am sorry their talents<br/>
and energy have not been put to a<br/>
better and more useful purpose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is scarcely an individual,<br/>
saint or sinner in this city but what I<br/>
have heard some "currently reported"<br/>
scandal about, therefore "he who is<br/>
without fault let him cast the first<br/>
stone." I hope should the next "cur-<br/>
rently reported" article refer to me,<br/>
your correspondent will sign his name<br/>
to it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
S. J. B. AMES.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
March, 12 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to learn that the tax<br/>
on native Boats coming into the city<br/>
has been entirely removed by the Si-<br/>
amese government. The tax was one<br/>
tical a fathom in length on all Boats<br/>
irrespective of the width. This is a<br/>
grand step in the right direction, and<br/>
we feel quite encouraged by it to hope<br/>
for other improvements. The particu-<br/>
lars of this change we intend to give<br/>
in our next issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that His Majesty the<br/>
king will leave this city on Friday th<br/>
23d inst. for a pleasure trip to Pet-<br/>
chaburce.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very sorry to hear that Loó-<br/>
ang Meitree, one of our most exter-<br/>
prising Chinese merchants, has been<br/>
fatally stabbed in the rectum with a<br/>
sharp bomboo by an enemy while he<br/>
was setting in his privy. He<br/>
was living when we last heard from<br/>
him, but not expected to survive. Has<br/>
the Siamese government energy enough<br/>
to sieze and duly punish the culprit?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has just come to our notice that<br/>
E. C. Walrond Esq. late Constable<br/>
at the British Consulate has been ap-<br/>
pointed to the command of the Seam-<br/>
ese Man of war Impregnable of 4 guns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ladies and their Long Tails.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Crinoline at length is going, thank<br/>
goodness! but long, trailing dresses<br/>
are coming in, thank badness! In mat-<br/>
ters of costume, lovely woman rarely<br/>
ceases to make herself a nuisance and<br/>
the length of her skirt now is al-<br/>
most as annoying, as a while ago, its<br/>
width was. Robes & queues they call<br/>
these dragggling dresses; but it is not<br/>
at Kew merely that people are tor-<br/>
mented by them. Every where you<br/>
walk, your footsteps are impeded by<br/>
the ladies, who, in Pope's prose,<br/>
"drag their slow length along" the<br/>
pathway just in front of you. "Will<br/>
anybody tread upon the tail of my<br/>
petticoat!" This seems to be the gen-<br/>
eral invitation they now give. Sad<br/>
enemies to progress they are in their<br/>
long dresses and a Reform bill should<br/>
be passed to make them hold their<br/>
tails up. Ladies should be taught to<br/>
to mind their p's and queues; and<br/>
every policeman should be armed<br/>
with a big pair of garden shears or<br/>
tailor's scissors wherewith to cut away<br/>
the skirts which he sees trailing on<br/>
the pavement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Young ladies, as a rule, we will allow,<br/>
are little ducks; but by wearing such<br/>
tails they make geese of themselves.<br/>
Clearly something must be done to<br/>
shorten their appendages, if it only be<br/>
on account of the public. We often<br/>
see a child tripped up by a long dress,<br/>
and falling on what Jaques calls it<br/>
"innocent nose" thereby. If the<br/>
trains be worn much longer, there is<br/>
no telling what mis-haps and master-<br/>
haps may be occasioned by them.<br/>
Well nigh as many accidents will be<br/>
met with by these troids as by those<br/>
upon our railways, and we really hardly<br/>
know which of the two may prove<br/>
more dangerous. For ourselves, hav-<br/>
ing the welfare of our little ones at<br/>
heart, we always try to tread upon<br/>
many dresses as we can, and to do<br/>
them all the damage that hobnailed<br/>
boots can perpetrate. If every father<br/>
of a family would sternly do the same,<br/>
the fashion of long dresses would have<br/>
a short existence.—Punch
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the position of Southern repre-<br/>
sentatives was not likely to be soon<br/>
determined by Congress, the gentle-<br/>
men from the South had resolved up-<br/>
on returning home until March 4th.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The government has arrested Cap-<br/>
tain Semmes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The report of Earl Schurs to<br/>
Government shows that the people of<br/>
the Southern States "have no nation-<br/>
al feeling and no American senti-<br/>
ment" and that the negro has been<br/>
reduced to a condition of practical<br/>
slavery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Senator Sumner denounced Pre-<br/>
sident Johnson's Message as resemb-<br/>
ling the white-washing message of<br/>
Franklin Pierce with regard to the<br/>
Kansas atrocities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Parisian butcher having obtained<br/>
the requisite authorization was to open<br/>
a special slaughter house for horses<br/>
under the superintendence of a gov-<br/>
ernment inspector, and a shop where<br/>
nothing but horse-flesh will be sold.<br/>
The opening of the two establish-<br/>
ments is to be inaugurated by a ban-<br/>
quet at which horse-flesh dressed in<br/>
every fashion by the most skilled<br/>
Parisian cuisiniers will form the chief<br/>
dishes.—[If Paris sets this new fash-<br/>
ion must not all the ladies in world<br/>
follow it?]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The split in the Fenian Camp in<br/>
the U. S. is complete. Roberts has<br/>
issued an address calling upon the<br/>
Fenians to act promptly and smash up<br/>
England. The sum of £400,000 the<br/>
supposed amount of their funds is<br/>
not quite enough, one would think to<br/>
do that great job.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems to be generally understood<br/>
that Russia has notified to Prussia,<br/>
in terms not to be mistaken, that she<br/>
will not permit the absorption of the<br/>
Duchies by the Prussian monarchy.<br/>
Had Russia made this intimation a<br/>
little earlier it would have saved much<br/>
ill-feeling and useless outlay, and en-<br/>
abled Prussia to retreat with better<br/>
grace from an untenable position. But<br/>
it is well she should interpose at last,<br/>
especially as there is reason to believe<br/>
that she has really done so effectually.<br/>
Bismark is visibly tottering to his fall,<br/>
and when he is down, there will not<br/>
be wanting hostile feet to visit him<br/>
with ignominous kicks. As the saying<br/>
goes, he will die like a bishop with<br/>
the consent of all men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The severity recently adopted by<br/>
the French government towards the<br/>
press, seems to be only the initial<br/>
movement of a system which is to be<br/>
more widely extended by and by. It<br/>
has begun with the "L' Independence<br/>
Belge," and a rumour is abroad that<br/>
the English newspapers are to be<br/>
prohibited next. We must wait for<br/>
the confirmation of this statement be-<br/>
fore we consent to believe it. One<br/>
thing is certain, that so vast a tyranny<br/>
could hardly be projected by any<br/>
minister on his own responsibility,<br/>
and, therefore, we are not surprised<br/>
to find it ascribed to a higher author-<br/>
ity.—Home News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[A government that will sanction<br/>
such a course in times of peace must<br/>
feel herself built on very explosive<br/>
materials. Ed.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some Zouaves in Mexico are said to<br/>
have revolted, and been disarmed.<br/>
The French in Mexico generally an-<br/>
ticipate war with the United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The eight hundredth anniversary of<br/>
the dedication of Westminster Ab-<br/>
bey has been celebrated by elaborate<br/>
services.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
COTTON IN INDIA.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is a rumour of good news<br/>
from America—the best for India we<br/>
have heard since the blockade. The<br/>
able London Correspondent of the<br/>
Bombay Gazette states that it has<br/>
been proposed in Congress to levy a<br/>
duty of 10 cents or 5d., a pound on<br/>
the export of American cotton. It is<br/>
true that this has not been proposed<br/>
or, so far as yet appears, approved of<br/>
by Mr McCulloch, the cautious Secre-<br/>
tary to the Treasury. But the fact<br/>
that it should be made at all gives us<br/>
hope that there may be a duty of at<br/>
least 8d. a pound. For Mr. McCul-<br/>
loch has left the whole question of<br/>
new or more taxation to a Commission<br/>
whose report is soon expected. Five-<br/>
pence a pound would yield twenty<br/>
millions sterling, or two-thirds of the<br/>
interest on the Debt, when the export<br/>
rises to two millions of bales. It would<br/>
force the Southern States to bear the<br/>
chief share of the burden they have<br/>
caused. And as, by devoting forty<br/>
millions a year steadily for the Debt,<br/>
Mr. McCulloch hopes to extinguish it<br/>
in twenty years, and the only other ex-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
port staple of the South is sugar, no-<br/>
thing is more probable than that he<br/>
will adopt a proposal so fruitful in it,<br/>
results, so popular in the loyal States<br/>
and abstractly so just as a temporary<br/>
measure. It seems more and more<br/>
certain that for two years more India<br/>
will draw her forty millions a year<br/>
for cotton, and for twenty or thirty<br/>
after that be allowed by an American<br/>
export duty to fall easily. She will<br/>
have at least an opportunity to improve<br/>
her cultivation, and if her peasantry<br/>
were only a little educated she might<br/>
take advantage of it as she has not<br/>
yet done.—-Friend of India.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">61</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White{{< news/indent2 >}}do</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">68</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Namsun</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">62</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">57</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">104½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Pical</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"</td>
 <td>2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Steam made No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">11⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BROWN</td>
 <td>" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>" 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER—</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">220</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>" 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">123</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>" 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>" 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">50</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>" 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>" 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOGE</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">50</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK—</td>
 <td>KORAT</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS—</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">190</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">26</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD</td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">3¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BEES WAX</td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUX KRABOW SEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BEES WAX</td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">95</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 @ 5</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">350</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 @ 7</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">340</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>8 @ 9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">320</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DRIED FISH—</td>
 <td>Plaheng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plasalet</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">7⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 Pic.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">270</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}" 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLD LEAF</td>
 <td colspan="4">16 Tic P Ticals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
EXCHANGE—On Singapore 1 per cent<br/>
discount at 10 d. s. On Hong Kong 4 per<br/>
cent discount at 30 d. s.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS—35 cents per pl. inside and<br/>
30 cents per pl. outside, for Hongkong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed at the<br/>
above rates;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Laura" rice 6372 pls. sapan-<br/>
wood 50 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. bark "Cap Sing Moon" rice 10.775<br/>
pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dut; bark "Sophia Amalia" rice 5580 pls.<br/>
sapanwood 21 pl. paddy 1009 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam ship "Verena" rice 6010 pl. sapan-<br/>
wood 2247 pl.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Turandot" rice 6588 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prus. do "Ingeburg" " 7640 "
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. do "Galatsea" " 7387 "<br/>
sapanwood 366 pls. sugar 474 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam bark "Kim Yung Bee" salt 550 pls.<br/>
saltfish 1850 pls. to Batavia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(The following vessels are ready for Sea.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. bark "Stella" for Singapore with<br/>
Buffalo Hides 226 pls. Deer sides hides 87<br/>
pls. horns 67 pls. sapanwood 424 pls. teak-<br/>
planks 110 pcs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. Sch. "Rantipole" for Hong Kong<br/>
with rice 4189 pls. teak-plank 80 pls
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brem. Sch. "Rudolph" for Hong Kong,<br/>
with rice 4290 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Ino" Hong Kong, rice 6500<br/>
pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hanov. brig "J. G. Fichte" Hong Kong<br/>
rice 2925 pls. paddy 440 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brit. Sch. "Kung Mon", for Hong Kong,<br/>
with rice 3087 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Siam Brig "Brilliant" for Batavia, with
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Salt fish 1500 pls. Sapanwood 800 pls. teak-<br/>
planks 150 pcs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ham. bark "Charlotte" for Hongkong with<br/>
ice 4892 pls.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
London Letter.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
London, January 10.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The two great sources of anxiety<br/>
at present, in England may be said to<br/>
be the Rinderpest and the state of the<br/>
money market. The former still con-<br/>
tinues to spread with a degree of ra-<br/>
pidity which has filled the nation with<br/>
alarm. Last week the number of vic-<br/>
tims amounted to 7500, an increase of<br/>
1500 over the return of the previous<br/>
week. Every attempt to discover the<br/>
nature or the cure of the disease has<br/>
been unavailing, and modern science<br/>
with all its vaunted progress, stands<br/>
aghast at this new visitation, which<br/>
baffles all our skill. It is now proposed<br/>
at once to interdict the movement of<br/>
cattle throughout the country in the<br/>
hope of stopping the progress of the<br/>
contagion, but so many cases have<br/>
been found of cattle attacked by the<br/>
murrain when in a state of complete<br/>
isolation, that there are serious doubts<br/>
of the successful issue of an experi-<br/>
ment which cannot fail to inflict great<br/>
distress on the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The money market is in the most<br/>
ticklish state. The Bank has raised<br/>
its rates to 8 per cent., but it is doubt-<br/>
ful whether this will be sufficient to<br/>
check the demand for accomodation.<br/>
In addition to the large loans required<br/>
for the continental kingdoms, and the<br/>
large speculations into which the<br/>
greed of gain has plunged the nations,<br/>
there has been a vast trade with Ame-<br/>
rica since the termination of the war.<br/>
Tempted by the high price of every<br/>
article, owing chiefly to an inflated<br/>
currency, people have been sending<br/>
over goods, for which there has been<br/>
no equivalent return to specie and<br/>
produce. A large debt is due from<br/>
America to England, and the ship-<br/>
pers are constrained to resort to the<br/>
capitalists for loans. In addition to the<br/>
usual discussion in the city article of<br/>
the Times, there is an elaborate leader<br/>
on the subject, which wears an omin-<br/>
ous aspect. To-day they are talking<br/>
of a panic, and if it once breaks out,<br/>
there is no knowing when it will stop.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the Continent, there are signs of<br/>
the waning of Count Bismark's power,<br/>
and of the determination of Aurtris<br/>
and Russia to resist his attempts to<br/>
make Schleswig and Holstein Prussian,<br/>
and there is a certainty that the Prus-<br/>
sian Parliament, when it meets, will<br/>
exhibit the most virulent hostility to<br/>
him.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This year the prospect is cheering,<br/>
as far as the authority which is en-<br/>
throned in Paris is concerned. Ever<br/>
since the New Year's Day of 1859<br/>
and its significant utterances to the<br/>
Austrian Minister the Continental<br/>
Powers have been prepared to arm at a<br/>
word from the Tuileries. Austria,<br/>
Prussia, Italy, the Papacy have listen-<br/>
ed with emotions of hope or fear. This<br/>
year there has been nothing but speech<br/>
of happy augury for peace, addressed<br/>
to the Papal Nuncio as the represent-<br/>
ative of foreign diplomacy. The Em-<br/>
peror speaks of strengthening the bonds<br/>
which unite nations and kings, and<br/>
hopes for a long day of peace and<br/>
prosperity for the world. There have<br/>
been periods when these might be<br/>
thought words of course, but the situa-<br/>
tion of affairs is such that we may really<br/>
hope they represent the convictions of<br/>
the Emperor and the French nation.<br/>
As to the latter, every year gives fresh<br/>
evidence that there's no popular desire<br/>
for war. France, like England, has<br/>
attained to all the honour which a na-<br/>
tion can fairly desire. As England,<br/>
with an immense empire and a com-<br/>
merce which encircles the globe, loves<br/>
peace because the most successful and<br/>
triumphant war could give her nothing,<br/>
so France, victorious over the most<br/>
formidable armies of the Continent, and<br/>
with her intellectual and artistic suprem-<br/>
acy even more assured than her<br/>
political power, does not care to enter<br/>
on new campaigns which can add no<br/>
glory to the conquerors of the Malak-<br/>
hoff and Solferino. The contented<br/>
ambition of the two leading European<br/>
nations is an important guarantee for<br/>
the peace of the world. We may say,<br/>
also, that if France is satisfied, the<br/>
Sovereign who rules France has reason<br/>
to be satisfied also. All the latest<br/>
achievements, both foreign and dom-<br/>
estic, of the country are his own, and<br/>
if great deeds can establish a throne<br/>
his ought to be secure. Hence the<br/>
world has learnt without surprise that<br/>
the Emperor will withdraw from the<br/>
two enterprises which still detain a<br/>
portion of the French army in foreign<br/>
lands. The long occupation of Rome<br/>
will be brought to an end during the<br/>
present year, and the future govern-<br/>
ment of what remains of the Papal<br/>
States will be left to the arbitrate-<br/>
ments of its own people.—-Friend of<br/>
India.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
First Thoughts.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In worldly matters 'think twice,'<br/>
but in duty, it has been well said, 'first<br/>
thoughts are best;' they are more fresh,<br/>
more pure, have more of God in them.<br/>
There is nothing like the first glance<br/>
that we get at duty, before there has<br/>
been any special pleading of our affec-<br/>
tions or inclinations. Duty is seldom<br/>
uncertain at first. It is only after we<br/>
have involved ourselves in the mazes<br/>
and sophistries of wishing that things<br/>
were otherwise than they are, that it<br/>
seems indistinct. Considering a duty<br/>
is often explaining it away. Delibera-<br/>
tion is often only dishonesty. God's<br/>
guidance is plain where we are true.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Eating Dirt.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Nation has an intelligent and<br/>
keen sighted correspondent traveling<br/>
through the South who reports the fol-<br/>
lowing remarks from an old planter he<br/>
found near Fayetsville, N. C. Proba-<br/>
bly it indicates pretty fairly the senti-<br/>
ment of very many Southerners:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“There’s a good many trying to<br/>
make out that they’ve always been<br/>
sound Union men, when the fact is we<br/>
were all rebels together. I am in favor<br/>
of acknowledging we’re whipped and<br/>
asking forgiveness, and then if the<br/>
United States won’t take us back, why<br/>
its not our fault. We’ve got to eat dirt<br/>
anyhow, as Vance says, but blamed if<br/>
I think much of a man that pretends<br/>
he likes it. I never could keep up<br/>
with the politicians, though.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—-The Paris correspondent of the<br/>
London Times writes a column a day,<br/>
and has $15,000 a year for doing it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Dictionary making appears to be<br/>
a healthy business. Johnson saw sev-<br/>
enty-five years; Walker lived to a<br/>
good old age; Dr. Worcester, who<br/>
died recently in Boston, was eighty-<br/>
one; Noah Webster was eighty-five<br/>
when he passed away; and the last<br/>
English news reports the death of Dr.<br/>
Richardson, at ninety.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A new invention has been brought<br/>
out in Chicago, that revolutionizes<br/>
some of the first principles of the<br/>
steam engine, and makes explosions of<br/>
it an impossibility. If practical, its<br/>
importance can hardly be estimated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The Jamaicain insurrection was the<br/>
instigation of a prominent white man,<br/>
a member of the Assembly, and, so far,<br/>
not a negro insurrection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—One hundred and sixty thousand<br/>
skeletons of horses and cattle, that<br/>
were killed or died during the war in<br/>
the Valley of Virginia, are collected at<br/>
a bone factory near Winchester.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The petroleum production for this<br/>
year is estimated at 1,500,000 barrels,<br/>
which will be worth $15,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—There are now 1608 national<br/>
banks with an aggregate capital of<br/>
$403,708,763 and a circulation of<br/>
$210,266,640.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—During the war, we had eight Ma-<br/>
jor-Generals and seventeen Brigadier-<br/>
Generals killed outright in battle, while<br/>
two Major-Generals and nine Brigadier-<br/>
Generals died of wounds received in<br/>
action, and seventeen Generals of the<br/>
two ranks died of disease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The English are people of resour-<br/>
ces. Several firms in Birmingham<br/>
have been doing a good business in<br/>
making heathen gods and shipping<br/>
them to India.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The rebel pirates destroyed 275<br/>
of our merchant vessels. The value of<br/>
whaling vessels alone that they do-<br/>
stroyed was $1,650,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—It is reported that Maximilian has<br/>
court-martialed and summarily execut-<br/>
ed 6000 Liberals
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Which, if true, would entitle him to<br/>
the appellation of the Great Assassin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A military revolution, headed by<br/>
General Prim, has broken out in Spain.<br/>
Madrid and the provinces of new Cas-<br/>
tille have been placed under military<br/>
law.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Russia has definitively declared to<br/>
Prussia that she will not permit the<br/>
annexation of Duchies.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A dowry of £80,000 and £6000 a<br/>
year will probably be asked of Parlia-<br/>
ment for Prince Christian of August-<br/>
enburg and the Princess Helena.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A revolution is reported to have<br/>
broken out in Mexico against the Em-<br/>
peror Maximilian.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cattle plague continues to in-<br/>
crease.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A tremendous storm has swept over<br/>
London and other parts of the United<br/>
Kingdom, causing much loss of life<br/>
and destruction of property.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Government shorthand writer<br/>
has been despatched to Jamaica to<br/>
attend the Commission. Most of the<br/>
London papers have also sent repor-<br/>
ters.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A man came into a printing office<br/>
to beg a paper. “Because,” he said,<br/>
“we like to read the newspapers very<br/>
much, but our neighbors are all too<br/>
stingy to take one!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The attention of the mistress of a<br/>
family was lately called to the fact<br/>
that a little colored girl was constantly<br/>
seen lying on the grassplat, with her<br/>
face turned up to the sun. Upon being<br/>
questioned why she assumed that pos-<br/>
ture, she answered, “Why, Missis al-<br/>
ways lay de tings on de grass what she<br/>
wants to make white.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_3_15 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="rdb">
        <p class="r02"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPLIST LIST, MARCH, 15TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r77">
        <p class="r02"><b>Arrivals</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="rdc">
        <p class="r02"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra7">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><b>TON</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r79">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r02"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7a">
        <p class="r02"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7b">
        <p class="r02"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra6">
        <p class="r02"><b>WHERE FOR</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Chow Phys</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r82">
        <p class="r49">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raa">
        <p class="r01">Str</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7d">
        <p class="r01">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Turandot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01">Mienert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">408</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7f">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raa">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Lennox Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Dobbie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r49">458</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">357</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Eileda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Rundburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r49">178</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Swed.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Young Tug</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Batavia</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r90">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8c">
        <p class="r01">Gerritz</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">455</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r8d">
        <p class="r01">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb0">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r89">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r84">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Ino</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r85">
        <p class="r01">Bannan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">367</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r86">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rae">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rac">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rde">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdf">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re0">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re1">
        <p class="r01">Rudolph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re1">
        <p class="r01">Olricks</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdd">
        <p class="r01">Brem.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rdf">
        <p class="r01">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="re2">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r03">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="rc2">
        <p class="r02"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc3">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r01">A. M. Lawrance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r49">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r53">
        <p class="r01">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r49">606</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rab">
        <p class="r01">Taylor</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Xardlberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Brema</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Weyhansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Catherina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">243</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Tannen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc4">
        <p class="r01">Charlotte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc5">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc6">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc5">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc7">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc8">
        <p class="r49">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc9">
        <p class="r01">Ahrens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rca">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rc4">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rca">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Chanthaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Chanthaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Eileda</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">178</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Rundberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">G. Finke Sen.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Iona</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">550</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Brewater</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">232</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Megerdriek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Kung Mou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Westcott</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Lancelot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">888</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Dougall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Lennox Castle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">693</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Dobbie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Gilfillan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Borneo CO. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Maury</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">378</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Harms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r49">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r49">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rb3">
        <p class="r01">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r01">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r49">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r01">Hanover</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r01">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r49">99</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="raf">
        <p class="r01">Manners</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r01">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6b">
        <p class="r01">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r49">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6b">
        <p class="r01">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6d">
        <p class="r49">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="rcb">
        <p class="r01">Cobbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6f">
        <p class="r01">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6e">
        <p class="r01"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL MARINE<br/>
IN CHINA.-—According to the terms of<br/>
a convention recently concluded be-<br/>
tween the Chinese Government and<br/>
M. Berthemy, the French Plenipoten-<br/>
tiary in China, the voyages of French<br/>
trading vessels between China, Japan,<br/>
and Cochin-China will hereafter be<br/>
considered in respect of the payment<br/>
of tonnage dues as simple coasting<br/>
voyages. Consequently all vessels<br/>
bearing the French flag will be allow-<br/>
ed to trade between the ports of those<br/>
countries without being called upon<br/>
to pay tonnage dues oftener than once<br/>
in four months, whatever may have<br/>
been the number of voyages they may<br/>
have made. This measure is also ap-<br/>
plicable to French vessels trading be-<br/>
tween one Chinese port and another<br/>
without touching at any foreign port,<br/>
and also to junks and other vessels<br/>
employed by French merchants in<br/>
coasting operations which hitherto<br/>
have been exempt from all tonnage<br/>
dues under the 22d article of the<br/>
treaty of Tientsin.—-Moniteur.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MR. SAMUEL SMITH.—Who has vi-<br/>
sited India in his Circular issued at<br/>
the beginning of the year seems to us<br/>
to come to very fair conclusions on<br/>
the subject of cotton supply. In 1865<br/>
all the world sent to England 2,755,<br/>
000 bales of which 1,267,000, or about<br/>
a half, were from India, 462,000 from<br/>
America, 340,000 from Brazil, 334,<br/>
000 from Egypt, and the rest from<br/>
the West Indies, China, and the Levant.<br/>
By doubling the American supply<br/>
for 1866, reducing the East Indian to<br/>
1,235,000 and the Egyptian to 234,<br/>
000, increasing Brazil to 450,000 and<br/>
striking out China, he expects 3,000,<br/>
000 bales in the current year, and the<br/>
quality of the whole will be superior.<br/>
Perhaps the supply expected from<br/>
America is too large, considering the<br/>
disorganization of capital and labour<br/>
in the South, and the demands of the<br/>
North. But this amount will be suf-<br/>
ficient to supply the mills of England<br/>
and Europe, while keeping up the<br/>
price of the manufactured goods for<br/>
at least all this year.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The Loudon French hears that his<br/>
Holiness the Pope has given positive<br/>
orders that all his bulls shall be kept<br/>
within the precincts of the Vatican<br/>
while the cattle disease is rife.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A Southern minister who has re-<br/>
ceived a number of calls and could<br/>
hardly decide which was the best, ask-<br/>
ed the advice of his faithful African<br/>
servant, who replied, “Massa, go where<br/>
de most debbel.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—An editor of Indiana was attached<br/>
by a man for some personal grievance.<br/>
The editor says: “To avoid injuring<br/>
him and to prevent his injuring us, we<br/>
got out of the way.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Old Mrs. Darnly is a pattern of<br/>
household economy. She says she has<br/>
made a pair of socks last fifteen years,<br/>
by only knitting new feet to them eve-<br/>
ry winter, and new legs every other<br/>
winter.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PHOTOGRAPHY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For three weeks only.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS R. Shannon & Co.<br/>
London & Peking, beg to inti-<br/>
mate that their place of busi-<br/>
ness is at the Residence of J.<br/>
C. CAMPBELL Esq. where Pho-<br/>
tography in all its branches<br/>
wil be carried on daily between<br/>
the hours of 7 and 10 A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
N. B. Parties honoring Messrs. R.<br/>
S & Co with their patronage areassure-<br/>
ed that their Photographs will not be<br/>
tampered with.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg<br/>
to inform that in consequence<br/>
of the decease of their friend,<br/>
PAUL SCHILL Esq. the firm<br/>
of MESSRS SCHILL, MALHERBE<br/>
& co. having entered into<br/>
liquidation and their con-<br/>
nexion with the said firm,<br/>
but for the liquidation of their<br/>
interest in the same, having<br/>
entirely ceased from the date<br/>
of 31st December 1865, the<br/>
same have formed at Bangkok<br/>
a new Import and General<br/>
Commission business under<br/>
the firm of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A. EYMOND, D HENRY & co.<br/>
into which MR. HUGO RANBER<br/>
also Partner in their Saigon<br/>
firm, has been admitted as a<br/>
Partner too.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
Bordeaux, 1st January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED<br/>
would hereby inform the pub-<br/>
lic that they have a well as-<br/>
sorted stock, on hand, of all<br/>
kinds of liquids and other<br/>
merchandise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND, D. HENRY
& CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, March 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
Union Hotel.<br/>
THE OLDEST<br/>
ESTABLISHED HOTEL<br/>
IN BANGKOK.<br/>
Billiard Tables and Bowling<br/>
Alleys are attached to the<br/>
Establishment.<br/>
P. CARTER,<br/>
Proprietor. Bangkok, 14th Jan. 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
