---
linkTitle: 'November 29th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - November 29th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); November 29th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 70
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY,</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">November 29th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 47.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
LONDON 15th OCTOBER.—-News from<br/>
China is very conflicting. Reported that<br/>
insurgents are in negotiation for submis-<br/>
sion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
16th OCTOBER.-—The “Times” appro-<br/>
ved Cranbourne’s proceeding in Indian<br/>
famine; and says the Indian Government<br/>
is partially responsible for the distress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
16th OCTOBER.-—Aidicamp of Sultan<br/>
reported no further engagement taken<br/>
place in Candia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Latest statements that Turks were a-<br/>
bout to attack the centre of insurrection.<br/>
The Ottoman Port recognized Prince<br/>
Charles Hohenzollern the new Hospodar<br/>
of Roumania.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reports of the growing American crop<br/>
continue unfavorable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
17th OCTOBER.-—Great Reform de-<br/>
monstration at Glasgow. The Italians<br/>
have occupied Verona.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia about to form three new Army<br/>
Corps in the Countries annexed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
18th OCTOBER.-—Emperor of Austria<br/>
convoked Diets of Empire for 19th Nov-<br/>
ember; except the Hungarian which is<br/>
deferred in consequence of the preval-<br/>
ence of Cholera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Peace negotiation between Prussia and<br/>
Saxony progressing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Moniteur” states that the affairs of<br/>
Candia are favorable to speedy pacifica-<br/>
tion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
19th OCTOBER.-—The Cession of Ven-<br/>
etia is completed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
20th OCTOBER.-—Italians have occupied<br/>
Venice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Treaty concluded between Prussia and<br/>
Saxony.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Radicals have carried Ohio, In-<br/>
diana, and Iowa elections.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Conscriptions ordered in Schleswig-<br/>
Holstein.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prince of Wales about to proceed<br/>
to St. Petersburg to assist at the mari-<br/>
age of Princess Dagmar.<br/>
Oct. 22nd-—Spain has resolved to<br/>
appeal to the Pope after the departure of<br/>
France troops from Rome, and proposed<br/>
to Austria to form Joint Protectorate.<br/>
Sir Bartle Frere has accepted a seat in<br/>
the Indian Council.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reported that Seymour Fitzgerald has<br/>
refused Governorship of Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
October 27th.—-The "Home News"<br/>
mentions rumour that Sir Henry Storks<br/>
proceeds to Calcutta to relieve Sir Wil-<br/>
liam Mansfield during the investigation<br/>
of the Jervis Case in England.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terrible fire in Quebec:-—2,500 houses<br/>
burut, 18,000 persona homeless.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Home News 3rd October.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The expediency of opening a public<br/>
subscription for the relief of the famine<br/>
in India has been brought under the no-<br/>
tice of Lord Cranborne, who did not<br/>
consider it necessary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Turkish ambassador in Athens<br/>
has threatened to break off relations with<br/>
the Greek government. He is said to be<br/>
supported by the French and English<br/>
ministers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Porte has sent Mustapha Pacha<br/>
to Crete, to treat with the insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The cotton crop has severely suffered<br/>
throughout Louisiana and Mississippi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A grand banquet has been given at<br/>
Liverpool to the chief promoters of the<br/>
Atlantic cable. Lord Stanley was pre-<br/>
sent, and the chair was filled by the Pre-<br/>
sident of the Board of Trade.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Republican movement is still suc-<br/>
cessfully advancing in Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
President Johnson has been received<br/>
with enthusiasm in Washington.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The health of the Emperor of the<br/>
French is improved. He has reviewed<br/>
the iron-clad squadron at Biarritz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The trial of Jefferson Davis has been<br/>
again postponed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inundations in France have been<br/>
productive of the most disastrous results.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Italian volunteers have been dis-<br/>
banded, and Garibaldi has returned to<br/>
Caprera.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Cholera still fluctuates in London, with<br/>
a tendency to spread.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A rising in Hungary is apprehended.<br/>
Troops have been sent from Vienna to<br/>
Pesth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty of peace between Austria<br/>
and Italy is said to have been concluded,<br/>
and only awaits ratification.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is stated that the plebescite in Ve-<br/>
netia will take place in a few days.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Home News 10th October.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is rumoured that Sir William Mans-<br/>
field is to be recalled, that Sir C. A<br/>
Windham is to succeed him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The treaty of peace has been signed<br/>
between Austria and Italy. Venetia has<br/>
been formally made over to Italy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prussia has taken formal possession of<br/>
the Kingdom of Hanover. The ex-king<br/>
having first protested against the annex-<br/>
ation, relieved his subjects of their al-<br/>
legiance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Hesse-Cassel, Frankfort, and Nassau<br/>
have been formally incorporated with<br/>
the Prussian monarchy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Senate of Frankfort has protest-<br/>
ed against annexation to Prussia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reform meetings are still held in dis-<br/>
ferent parts of the country in support of<br/>
manhood suffrage and vote by ballot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A monster demonstration of working<br/>
men has taken place in Leeds.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lord Cowley has withdrawn his re-<br/>
signation of the Paris embassy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The last report of cholera in London<br/>
exhibits an increase.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A report recently circulated of the in-<br/>
sanity of the Empress of Mexico has been<br/>
confirmed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the last battle between the Cretans<br/>
and the Turco-Egyptian forces the lat-<br/>
ter were defeated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Outbreaks are expected in Epirus and<br/>
Thessaly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A French ship-of-war has been sent<br/>
to Crete.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Numerous conventions of rival parties<br/>
are being held in America. General<br/>
Butler demands that General Lee as well<br/>
as Mr. Davis should be hanged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor of Austria has publicly<br/>
renounced the title of King of Lombar-<br/>
dy and Venetia.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The restoration of tranquillity in Ma-<br/>
drid has been officially announced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenians are said to be contem-<br/>
plating a movement on the Vermont<br/>
frontier.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Flad has been appointed to pro-<br/>
ceed to Abyssinia to endeavour to effect<br/>
the release of the English prisoners.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Latest.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Before changing her residence at<br/>
Hanover for the chateau of Hildesheim,<br/>
Queen Mary, the spouse of the dethron-<br/>
ed George, received a deputation from<br/>
the town, who came to console with the<br/>
royal sufferer. On this occasion the<br/>
queen accounted for her husband's per-<br/>
sistent opposition to Prussia by telling<br/>
the astonished citizens that the king had<br/>
often had revelations from on high grant-<br/>
ed to him in the watches of the night.<br/>
It was after one such divine command<br/>
that he resolved to hold out to the last,<br/>
even at the risk of a war. The religious<br/>
enthusiasm of the queen seems to be<br/>
equally intense with that of the king,<br/>
who had no hesitation in asserting with<br/>
his own royal lips, some time ago, that<br/>
the same hour in which he ascended the<br/>
throne the spirit of God had descended<br/>
upon him, and fitted him to rule in its<br/>
stead. "In the primary scheme of crea-<br/>
tion," he added, "the existence and re-<br/>
gal might of the Guelphs was already<br/>
determined upon. Their sway, therefore,<br/>
would last till the end of all time, to the<br/>
honour of God and the well-being of<br/>
their subjects."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
France.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We derive the following from the let-<br/>
ter of a Paris correspondent, dated Oct. 8.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are rumours of a diplomatic<br/>
rupture between Prussia and Austria in<br/>
case the latter Power shall persist in its<br/>
intentions of appointing M. de Beust<br/>
Minister of Foreign Affairs. If Austria<br/>
persists a renewal of war is upon the<br/>
cards.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insanity of the Empress of Mex-<br/>
ico, now (in spite of a contradiction of<br/>
the 'Patrie' not persisted in) universally<br/>
spoken of, appeared in the form of a be-<br/>
lief that there was a conspiracy to poi-<br/>
son her, and that her life would only be<br/>
safe under the personal protection of<br/>
the Pope! This explains her journey to<br/>
Rome; and there her madness broke out<br/>
in a manner so contrary to Papal eti-<br/>
quette that the Holy Father was forced<br/>
to hand her over to the mad doctors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Empress of Mexico is the sub-<br/>
ject of much conversation here. Yes-<br/>
terday morning at 9, without having re-<br/>
quested audience, she presented herself<br/>
at the Vatican to see the Holy Father.<br/>
She was immediately received, and it is<br/>
said she presented a petition to the Pope<br/>
praying his holiness to sanction every-<br/>
thing that her husband had done as em-<br/>
peror with respect to religious matters.<br/>
The story goes that the Pope positively<br/>
refused, and that the empress then de-<br/>
clared she would not leave the Vatican<br/>
if her request were not granted. I can-<br/>
not guarantee the authority of all this;<br/>
but it is certain the empress did not quit<br/>
the Vatican until 6 in the evening. She<br/>
retired to the private study of the Pope,<br/>
and his holiness continued his ordinary<br/>
audiences; he afterwards dined alone,<br/>
according to etiquette, and went out for<br/>
his usual drive, leaving the empress with<br/>
her lady in waiting. She at length left,<br/>
and dined at the Hotel de Rome, where<br/>
her majesty is staying. In consequence<br/>
of this incident a rumour has got abroad<br/>
that her reason is impaired, and we know<br/>
beyond and doubt that Professor Viale,<br/>
the Pope's medical attendant, scarcely<br/>
leaves her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We find the following in the Paris<br/>
correspondence of the 'Globe':—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a diplomatic quarter I learn that<br/>
Russia really is (as intimated in a pre-<br/>
vious letter) extremely vexed at finding<br/>
that France and England are determined<br/>
not to allow the Eastern question to be<br/>
opened for the present. She had laid<br/>
her plans in the expectation that it could<br/>
not fail to come on the tapis, and it was<br/>
on account of this that she feasted the<br/>
United States' delegates, and "engur-<br/>
landed" them (a Russian expression)<br/>
with flowers of eloquence. And now all<br/>
goes for nothing. No wonder she is an-<br/>
noyed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A new manifestation of the ill-feeling<br/>
which the sudden and unexpected ag-<br/>
grandisement of Prussia has occasioned<br/>
in France is now taking place. It con-<br/>
sists in the handing about of photographs,<br/>
entitled "What the war has cost Prussia,<br/>
and bearing apparently only rows of fig-<br/>
ures, but which, on being held up to the<br/>
light, present words grossly insulting to<br/>
the Prussian sovereign. People are also<br/>
much amused by a figure of an irate<br/>
Austrian soldier holding Bismarck by the<br/>
ears, and to which the pulling of a string<br/>
gives the comic resemblance of the states-<br/>
man being rudely shaken by the warrior.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These undoubtedly are very puerile<br/>
things, but as an indication of prevailing<br/>
sentiment they are significant. I am told<br/>
too that the conjurors and mountebanks<br/>
who give exhibitions in streets and<br/>
squares fill their ROOSTMENTS—(the non-<br/>
sensical speeches with which they attract<br/>
and amuse crowds) with scoffing allusions<br/>
to Count Bismarck and the Prussians.<br/>
Some of them even figure in grotesque<br/>
imitations of the Prussian helmets. As<br/>
these Demostheneses of the gutter are<br/>
closely watched by the police, it is pro-<br/>
bable that they have been "inspired" to<br/>
speak as they do; at all events it is clear<br/>
that they are tolerated.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Remarkable Religious
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Movement in SHANTUNG PROVINCE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have received the following interest-<br/>
ing letter from a Missionary friend at<br/>
Tientain :-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TIENTSIN, 14TH OCTOBER,
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MR EDITOR-—I hope you will deem the<br/>
following account of sufficient interest to<br/>
insert in your paper. Many will read and<br/>
rejoice, while others will wonder and doubt<br/>
whether these things are so. I propose to<br/>
furnish a simple statement of facts, as un-<br/>
derstood or heard of here.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About last February an aged stranger<br/>
was seen in one of the principal streets<br/>
inside the walls of this city, enquiring<br/>
where information relating to the Roman<br/>
Catholic Religion, could be obtained. He<br/>
was directed by some one to the Protestant<br/>
chapel in care of the English Methodist<br/>
new connection mission, located by the<br/>
tower in the centre of the city. He ea-<br/>
gerly sought the place ; the native assistant<br/>
who preached that day discoursed on the<br/>
Beatitudes, dwelling especially on the<br/>
Blessedness of the pure in heart, because<br/>
they shall see God, Matt. Chap. 5th verse<br/>
8th. The stranger felt and manifested<br/>
great joy on hearing such sentiments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He subsequently made the following re-<br/>
markable statements:—He lived in the<br/>
township of Lau Lang in the province of<br/>
Shangtung, distant from Tientsain 450 li,<br/>
and about 7 or 8 li from the southern<br/>
boundary of Chili province. His age was<br/>
68 years. Some months previous, he had<br/>
been taken down with disease, and be-<br/>
lieved that he was soon to die. He felt<br/>
that he was unprepared to die and that he<br/>
was a very great sinner. He became very<br/>
much depressed in mind in view of his<br/>
sins. He could find no rest and satisfac-<br/>
tion. One night he dreamed that he was<br/>
conducted away by a superior and beauti-<br/>
ful being to the outer gate of a most mag-<br/>
nificent palace. He had never seen or<br/>
heard anything so grand and so enchan-<br/>
tingly beautiful. He looked in, and saw<br/>
that it was full of light and splendor, and<br/>
that inside were many such beings as was<br/>
his conductor, who seemed to be very hap-<br/>
py. On his endeavouring to enter, he was<br/>
told that such as he was were not permit-<br/>
ted to enter. No unclean and vile person<br/>
was allowed within. The great difference<br/>
between himself and those inside was<br/>
pointed out to him. He was told that he<br/>
was not to die for some time to come, and<br/>
if he became pure and clean, after death<br/>
he could enter the palace and join in its<br/>
pursuits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He awoke full of astonishment, and for<br/>
a long time, remained absorbed in the con-<br/>
templation of his dream, but could not un-<br/>
derstand its meaning. Full of ardent long-<br/>
ing to understand it, he at length fell<br/>
asleep again, and dreamed substantially<br/>
the same dream.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the morning he told his dream to his<br/>
friends, but could find no one who could<br/>
give any satisfactory explanation. He<br/>
soon recovered from his illness, but his<br/>
distress of mind found no relief, but rath-<br/>
er increased in view of the vision. It oc-<br/>
curred to him after a while that in his<br/>
neighbourhood were some Roman Catho-<br/>
lics (Chinese). He went to them, explained<br/>
his feelings and told his dream. They<br/>
were utterly unable to answer his in-<br/>
quiries, but told him that at Tientsain there were<br/>
Roman Catholics who could give him in-<br/>
struction. He without delay started for<br/>
this city, and was directed to the Protes-<br/>
tant chapel above referred to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His story and his manifest earnestness<br/>
and sincerity attracted considerable interest<br/>
at the time. He spent several weeks here<br/>
attending the chapel services, reading<br/>
Christian books, and learning all he could<br/>
regarding the new doctrines, which he<br/>
joyfully received. He finally returned<br/>
home carrying some Christian books with<br/>
him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He appeared at Tientsin again, after se-<br/>
veral weeks, with a letter signed by a num-<br/>
ber of his neighbours and friends who had<br/>
become deeply interested in the books he<br/>
had taken home, and in the statements he<br/>
made relating to what he had previously<br/>
learned at Tientsin. The letter contained<br/>
a request for a native christian to go to<br/>
Lou Ling and explain the books more ful-<br/>
ly. It stated also that there was a con-<br/>
siderable number who were very desirous<br/>
of receiving instruction and that the in-<br/>
terest was widening.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In accordance with this request, the me-<br/>
thodist mission sent back with the old<br/>
gentlemen a supply of books and some of<br/>
their native assistants. The latter was al-<br/>
sent about a month, and on his return he<br/>
gave very interesting and wonderful details<br/>
of the serious and profound attachment of<br/>
a comparatively large number to the new<br/>
truths, the "glad tidings." Soon after-<br/>
wards two colporteurs were sent to Lou<br/>
Lang who spent a month there, distribut-<br/>
ing books and giving instruction. They<br/>
confirmed on their return previous ac-<br/>
counts, and bore an invitation for some<br/>
foreign missionary to go and administer<br/>
baptism to those who on examination<br/>
should be judged prepared for it. But as<br/>
one of the two members of the methodist<br/>
mission was then absent at Shanghai it<br/>
was not at all convenient for the other<br/>
member to leave Tientsin for the necessary<br/>
time. A native preacher and his wife,<br/>
were sent instead of a foreign missionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 4th of September, one of the<br/>
missionaries started for the place. In nine<br/>
or ten days he sent back to his associate<br/>
intelligence of such an interesting and en-<br/>
couraging nature, more than confirming<br/>
the previous statements made by the<br/>
Chinese, that the latter started for Lou<br/>
Ling, to assist in the work of examining<br/>
and baptizing. They both returned, on the<br/>
29th ultimo.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I will briefly state some items of inter-<br/>
est they have made known.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They have baptized after a very careful<br/>
and prayerful examination 45 persons, of<br/>
whom 18 are women and 27 are men.<br/>
There are several tens' more, a good pro-<br/>
portion of whom are females, who desire<br/>
baptism. The village where the principal<br/>
interest is, named after the family clan, of<br/>
whom the old gentlemen who came to<br/>
Tientsin is the head, is not large. It is<br/>
surrounded on all sides by similar villages<br/>
distant from each other only a few Li.<br/>
The interest extends in all directions, some<br/>
come on Saturday afternoon for 20, 30 and<br/>
even 40 and more Li, bringing their bed-<br/>
ding and their food, to attend the Sabbath<br/>
services, returning home Sabbath P. M. af-<br/>
ter the second preaching service. One old<br/>
man aged 72, living 45 Li distant was<br/>
heard to say that if the foreign teachers<br/>
could afford to come 450 Li, he could af-<br/>
ford to come 45 Li, and so he walks that<br/>
distance Saturday afternoon, to hear<br/>
preaching.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The native helper, before the foreign<br/>
missionaries had arrived, one Sabbath re-<br/>
marked publicly on the duty of destroying<br/>
every idol and instrument of idolatry<br/>
and superstition. On the following day<br/>
17 families brought their images, pictures,<br/>
kc., every thing they had which pertained<br/>
to idolatrous worship, and burned them<br/>
up in the presence of the native helper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Sabbath seems to be observed with<br/>
considerable propriety and strictness in<br/>
regard to some things. For example, the<br/>
Chinese Christians of their own accord<br/>
have made a rule which is carefully ob-<br/>
served, that among those who meet to-<br/>
gether for worship, and with those who<br/>
remain during the intermission on the<br/>
Sabbath, preparing and eating their re-<br/>
freshments, there shall be no secular topic<br/>
introduced and discussed, nothing relating<br/>
to cultivating the soil, or gathering the<br/>
crops &c. The village and the country<br/>
around it being inhabited chiefly by farm-<br/>
ers, and those who attend the meetings<br/>
being themselves farmers, or laboring on<br/>
farms, this rule, it is manifest, is a prac-<br/>
tical one, and shows the sincerity and<br/>
earnestness of the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Christians living in the village go<br/>
to their work on the neighbouring farms,<br/>
early in the morning; after breakfast a-<br/>
bout 9 o'clock, they assemble at the chapel,<br/>
for singing, reading the scriptures and<br/>
prayer, for half an hour, and then proceed<br/>
to their work again. In the evening, after<br/>
supper, they meet in the chapel for prayer<br/>
&c. again.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The women who believe are, as may be<br/>
inferred from the fact that they have been<br/>
already baptised, not nearly as reserved<br/>
and retiring, as respectable Chinese fe-<br/>
males usually are. They meet for service<br/>
oftentimes in the same building with the<br/>
men, and seem very desirous of hearing<br/>
the Gospel preached themselves. The wife<br/>
of the native helper now there has had a<br/>
great and salutary influence among the<br/>
women. Sometimes 20 or 30 women will<br/>
bring what needle and other light work<br/>
they have to her house, and sit and work,<br/>
while she reads the scriptures and explains<br/>
the Bible to them. Several of them are<br/>
able to read.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Christians are represented as pray-<br/>
ing with fervency and propriety, as engag-<br/>
ing in singing hymns, if not with a strict<br/>
compliance with the rules of music, with a<br/>
deal of enjoyment and animation, with the<br/>
spirit, if not with the understanding. They<br/>
have what cannot be said generally of na-<br/>
tive church members in China, an affecting<br/>
and profound sense of their personal sin-<br/>
fulness and unworthiness. They have an<br/>
ardent desire for the conversion of their<br/>
own families, or neighbours, who are still<br/>
unconverted. This desire manifests itself<br/>
in their present public prayers, and in their<br/>
daily conversation and conduct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps I have been too minute and too<br/>
lengthy respecting this religious move-<br/>
ment in Lou Ling, unprecedented so far<br/>
as China is concerned, but I could not con-<br/>
clude to leave out any of the facts stated.<br/>
I leave the subject here, requesting the<br/>
reader to remember that the work was<br/>
commenced and carried on till less than<br/>
one month ago, without the presence<br/>
of a foreign missionary, and that previous<br/>
to last spring not one in Lou Ling knew<br/>
any thing about the Bible or the Doctrines<br/>
of the Bible as explained by Protestant<br/>
missionaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The future will tell more perfectly than<br/>
we now know the real nature and extent<br/>
of the work. It appears to be an extensive<br/>
and genuine turning from Idolatry to the<br/>
worship of the true God.—-OVERLAND CHI-<br/>
NA MAIL 1ST Nov.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EMIGRATION FROM DENMARK TO AMER-
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ICA.-—A few weeks back a steamer, the<br/>
OTTAWA, left Copenhagen with 400 Danish<br/>
emigrants and 200 tons of freight for New<br/>
York. By order of the Danish Govern-<br/>
ment, two special commissioners accom-<br/>
panied the party, charged to see that they<br/>
were not wronged on their arrival, and to<br/>
do all that was possible to give them a fair<br/>
start. It is the intention of the Danish<br/>
Government to encourage similar expedi-<br/>
tions, there being a large class of people<br/>
who would do better by emigrating than<br/>
by staying at home.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A DESPATCH of 478 words in cipher<br/>
from the Emperor Maximilian of Mexico<br/>
to the Empress Charlotte recently passed<br/>
over the Atlantic Telegraph. The cost of<br/>
transmission was over 5,000 dollars.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ADVICES from Mobile, Alabama, state<br/>
that on September 2 an island was thrown<br/>
up by volcanic force on the Florida coast,<br/>
fifteen miles from land, 90 feet above the<br/>
sea level, and 1,700 feet in circumference.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.-—Thirty-four persons have been<br/>
convicted of high treason in connection<br/>
with the attack on the Emperor. Two<br/>
Councillors of State have been found guil-<br/>
ty of embezzling public money. Princess<br/>
Dagmar has arrived at St. Petersburg.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DENMARK.—-M. Meergaard, War Minis-<br/>
ter, has been succeeded by M. Raalof.<br/>
20,000 Sleswickers have signed a petition<br/>
for the restoration of North Sleswick to<br/>
Denmark.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
November 29th 1866
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Royal Outlook
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have quite recently been put in<br/>
possession of a curious paper from the<br/>
pen of one of His Majesty's chief scribes,<br/>
which we think the most of our read-<br/>
ers will be interested in reading. The<br/>
following is a free translation of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The question whether President<br/>
Johnson, chief ruler of the U. States<br/>
of America is a man worthy of being<br/>
praised or is a man of evil deeds, and<br/>
has been falsely praised, does not yet<br/>
fully appear to the Siamese. The<br/>
king of Siam did not know his name<br/>
or his character before his inaugura-<br/>
tion as President. He only respected<br/>
the station to which he was promoted,<br/>
as the U. S. and Siam are in treaty re-<br/>
lations, being friendly to each other.<br/>
And it is according to international law<br/>
that the Am. Consul should protect<br/>
those Americans who come hither to<br/>
live and to trade in Siam, and to see<br/>
that they all live according to the stip-<br/>
ulations of the Treaty, guarding them-<br/>
selves against all acts that should be<br/>
avoided, and that would unnecessarily<br/>
produce collision."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"With regard to having any particu-<br/>
lar affection for the President of the<br/>
U. S. the king of Siam can only do it<br/>
as a kind of half way concern; and<br/>
such must be his regard toward the<br/>
Presidents of the U. S. who have pre-<br/>
ceded Mr. Johnson, because the king<br/>
can never know them intimately—-not<br/>
having known them at all before their<br/>
accession."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And as regards the election of the<br/>
Presidents from time to time, the king<br/>
of course has no concern in it. But<br/>
whenever he hears that a good man<br/>
has been elected, and that the people<br/>
are happy in him, the king becomes<br/>
also happy for the same reason, think-<br/>
ing that the man has been a good man<br/>
from former time. But on the other<br/>
hand, the king is never angered be-<br/>
cause a President does not prove to be<br/>
quite the man that pleases him, as he<br/>
has no concern in the election of the<br/>
Presidents. Hence the virtues and the<br/>
faults of any President do not parti-<br/>
cularly concern the king of Siam, to<br/>
speak or even to think of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nevertheless because the newspa-<br/>
pers have published from time to time<br/>
news from the U. S. for the purpose of<br/>
interesting the Siamese—that when<br/>
they have read they may converse<br/>
together on the subject, and when they<br/>
find that the news is better than it was<br/>
thought it would be, they may re-<br/>
joiced in it, [the king has been<br/>
led to think a good deal about the<br/>
Presidents.]<br/>
The reports that were made of the<br/>
assassination of President Lincoln<br/>
were made according to what appeared<br/>
the facts in the case, and praises were<br/>
lavished on President Johnson in mul-<br/>
tiplied ways. But the circumstance<br/>
of his getting intoxicated with spirits<br/>
at the time of his inauguration, were<br/>
so public that the newspapers could<br/>
not conceal them. They were obliged<br/>
to report the facts as they were, and<br/>
then they labored to apologize for<br/>
them. What was said in the papers<br/>
of the affairs, the king understood, and<br/>
had at that time doubts in his mind<br/>
whether President Johnson was not a<br/>
bad man. The king feared that Prest.<br/>
Johnson might have a hasty spir-<br/>
it-—being impetuous in his desires of<br/>
the honors of the Presidency—-not<br/>
willing to wait four years when he<br/>
might have a chance of being regular-<br/>
ly elected to that station, and therefore<br/>
ventured to drive the affair to a quick<br/>
consummation; and that possibly he<br/>
might be implicated in the crime of<br/>
assassinating President Lincoln. It<br/>
appeared to the king, at the time, not<br/>
probable that the rebel leaders were<br/>
accessory to the assassination, because<br/>
they were already conquered, and it<br/>
was not Prest. Lincoln alone who stood<br/>
in the way of their rising again to pow-<br/>
er, but the government. Or that if<br/>
the rebels were accessory to the assas-<br/>
sination perhaps they were so because<br/>
they were convinced that if Prest. Lin-<br/>
coln remained, the Union cause would<br/>
become so strong against them as to<br/>
leave no hope of ever rallying again:<br/>
but that if Prest. Lincoln were gone the<br/>
government would of course devolve<br/>
on Vice Prest. Johnson who perhaps<br/>
would not be likely so to rule as to<br/>
preserve the strength and power of the<br/>
government, and might lead to a rup-<br/>
ture between him and Congress, and<br/>
thus open the way for the rebels to<br/>
recover their power. Hence foreace-<br/>
ing such probable results they may<br/>
have been accessory to the assassination.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now such were the cogitations of<br/>
the king at the beginning, and he was<br/>
not hence much disposed to credit<br/>
the praises published in the newspaper<br/>
concerning President Johnson. He<br/>
thinks it likely these his views of the<br/>
affair as published formerly were not<br/>
pleasing to the editors of the papers.<br/>
But now it appears that the papers<br/>
have changed their oppinion, and ex-<br/>
press the fear that President Johnson<br/>
is really a bad man, and assert that<br/>
he is becoming unpopular with the<br/>
people of the U. S. The king is<br/>
hence rather gratified than otherwise<br/>
to find that he was quite correct in<br/>
regard to his fears of the character<br/>
of President Johnson from the be-<br/>
ginning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now in all that has been said a-<br/>
bove the king has no political motive<br/>
whatever. The news of political mat-<br/>
ters and others in the U. S. he is not<br/>
much concerned with. He is only<br/>
concerned to have the editors of the<br/>
papers know that the affairs of the<br/>
U. S. as published here in Siam will<br/>
be read with interest by but a few<br/>
Siamese in the normal state of the<br/>
country, and will be passed over by<br/>
most of the readers of the newspapers<br/>
because that country is far away<br/>
and Siam has but little buisiness with<br/>
it. But the king has had the thoughts<br/>
as above expressed, in consideration<br/>
of the treaty of amity and friend-<br/>
ship which exists between the U. S.<br/>
and Siam, and not by any means be-<br/>
cause of any personal considerations,<br/>
and that for the reason that he has<br/>
had no personal knowledge of either<br/>
of the Presidents.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwish Island No. 7.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last No. we gave the statis-<br/>
tics of the members of the Protestant<br/>
Churches on the Islands. We purpose<br/>
now to show the character of those<br/>
members. The book of Dr. Anderson,<br/>
from which we draw our information<br/>
is full of the most reliable testimony<br/>
to the genuineness of the work of grace<br/>
wrought in the hearts of tens of thou-<br/>
sands of those islanders, and the great-<br/>
ness and the blessedness of the change<br/>
it has produced in their lives. The<br/>
following address of a senior deacon<br/>
of the church of WAIMEA, a native of<br/>
the island of Hawaii, will, we think,<br/>
be interesting to some of our readers,<br/>
if not to all, as it shows in a striking<br/>
light what the people themselves<br/>
think of the work of the missionaries<br/>
and how highly they prize it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The address was written by the na-<br/>
tive deacon himself, and delivered on<br/>
the occasion of Dr. Anderson's visit<br/>
to the church in 1863. It will be<br/>
borne in mind that Dr. A. was the<br/>
Senior Secretary of the A. B. C. F. M.<br/>
Board which had sent all the Prot.<br/>
Missionaries to the Islands. Though<br/>
the time of the meeting was rainy, the<br/>
large church edifice was full of tidy,<br/>
intelligent, and deeply interested au-<br/>
ditors. The address was delivered in<br/>
the Hawaiian language, and translated<br/>
literally without any effort to preserve<br/>
the native idiom. It is as follows:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The church members of the high-<br/>
lands of WAIMEA, the old men, the<br/>
aged women, the strong men, the<br/>
youth and children, tender, through<br/>
me their salutation to you, the Secre-<br/>
tary, your companion, and daughter.<br/>
Great indeed is our joy in being per-<br/>
mitted to see you, to welcome you to<br/>
this land. You have been sent by the<br/>
learned Missionary Society of great<br/>
America, as its delegate to see the<br/>
works of the gospel heralds you have<br/>
sent us."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"We, the ancient men of Kame-<br/>
hameha's time, were once idolaters,<br/>
murderers, guilty of infanticide, polyg-<br/>
amy, and constantly quarrelling one<br/>
with another."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"On the death of Kamehameha, the<br/>
kingdom devolved on his son Liholi-<br/>
ho. He abolished idolatry broke the<br/>
tabus (superstitious rites); men and<br/>
women for the first time ate together,<br/>
and the temples and gods were burnt<br/>
to ashes."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Still we lived on in poverty and<br/>
darkness, and in secret worship of<br/>
idols, and were without the knowl-<br/>
edge of the living and true God. Men,<br/>
women and children were promis-<br/>
cuously devoted to the most sordid<br/>
pleasures, heathenish dances, and re-<br/>
velries, day and night. In the year<br/>
1820, the Missionaries, Mr. Bingham<br/>
and company, came to these Islands to<br/>
proclaim the blessed gospel to us, who<br/>
knew not God, nor had heard of the<br/>
death of Jesus, the Messiah, the Savi-<br/>
our of our world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From you, the Missionary Society<br/>
you have sent, that loved us, and sent<br/>
the good Missionaries to our dark<br/>
land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The king and his premier allowed<br/>
the missionaries to dwell with us; to<br/>
introduce a new order of things; to<br/>
teach us first the twelve letters of the<br/>
alphabet; then spelling, then reading<br/>
and writing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"During the forty three years the<br/>
missionaries have resided on the Is-<br/>
lands, much seed has been sown, much<br/>
labor performed, and wonderful have<br/>
been the results. We were once all<br/>
dark, buried in darkness, sunk to the<br/>
lowest depths of ignorance; roaming<br/>
about the fields and woods, like wild<br/>
beasts; without clothing; our naked<br/>
bodies most shamefully exposed and<br/>
blackened by the sun; without books,<br/>
without Bibles, without Christianity;<br/>
plunging into the darkness of hell.<br/>
Now, we are clothed, like civilized<br/>
beings; we as Christianized; we are<br/>
gathered into churches; we are intel-<br/>
ligent; we are supplied with Bibles,<br/>
and hymn books; and are living for<br/>
God and for heaven! And this through<br/>
the labors of the missionaries you have<br/>
sent us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Our joy is inexpressible in seeing<br/>
you; and we beg you to carry back<br/>
to your associates, to the Missionary<br/>
Society, to all the American Churches<br/>
conneted with it, the warmest saluta-<br/>
tions of the Churches of Waimea and<br/>
Hanaukua."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There were two Hymns composed<br/>
by natives for the occasion, and sung<br/>
with great effect by a large choir of<br/>
the church members. One of them<br/>
by Lianna, Dr. A. took home with him<br/>
and submitted for the inspection of<br/>
Mr. Bingham and old returned mis-<br/>
sionary. He regarded it as a gem in<br/>
Hawaiian literature, and made a metri-<br/>
cal version of it. We give both the<br/>
original and the English.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE ORIGINAL.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Nani ke aloha la!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Meka olioli po,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I ka malikini hou—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha oe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Holo oia a Maanei,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Mai Amerika mai no,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ela no! ua komo mai—-<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha oe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"A, ma keia la maikai,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Hui aloha pu kakou,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ma ka Lukiini nei;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha oe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"E hanoli, oli pu,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E na hoahanau a pau,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Kani, wahine, keiki no,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha oe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Na ia nei i hoouna mai,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}I na misioneri nei,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E ao'mai ia kakou nei;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha oe.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E ala, oli kakou pu,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}A kakua aloha no,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ka makua o kakou;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}E aloha, aloha mau.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
METRICAL VERSION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wonderful that love sincere!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Great our joint rejoicing here:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For the stranger guest we see;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Cordial welcome, friend, to thee.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Sailing to reach our homes,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}From America he comes;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Lo! in peace he enters here;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Welcome to our hearts sincere.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Now on this delightful day,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We, in love, unite to pray:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Here beneath our temple spire,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We our welcome give thee sire.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Jointly chanting, now rejoice;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Brethren all unite your voice;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Husbands, wives, and little ones,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Greet this friend with greatful tones.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"This is he who hither sends,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}These true missionary friends,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}To enlighten our dark mind;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Thanks and and love to one so kind.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}"Let us then all rise and sing,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And our greatful succor bring;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For our sire our love to prove,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Love, good will, unceasing love."<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
"After having addressed a score of<br/>
congregations," says Dr.A. "and more<br/>
than 12,000 of the people I cannot be<br/>
greatly mistaken in a general estimate<br/>
of their intelligence. • • • The con-<br/>
gregations at the stations varied from<br/>
five hundred to twelve hundred. The<br/>
meeting houses were generally filled<br/>
with people well clad, considering<br/>
their circumstances. One of my first<br/>
surprises at the Islands was to find<br/>
the people so generally and so well<br/>
dressed. Thirty years before, the<br/>
masses of the people scarcely felt the<br/>
need of clothes. The climate did not<br/>
require them, and the natives at first<br/>
looked upon our dress as merely or-<br/>
namental. It will illustrate this if I<br/>
relate an anecdote, which I received<br/>
from the best source. In one of the<br/>
first years of the mission a chief on<br/>
Hawaii was reproved by a missionary<br/>
for entering his house so nearly naked.<br/>
Profiting by the rebuke, and aiming<br/>
to give full satisfaction, next time he<br/>
walked in with the addition of a pair<br/>
of silk stockings and a hat. * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The natives have built more than<br/>
a hundred meeting-houses or churches<br/>
with but little foreign aid. * * * *
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the building of the older, larger,<br/>
more expensive churches, the govern-<br/>
ment, as such, had no agency. The<br/>
aggregate cost of the churches ex-<br/>
ceeded $150,000. Some of the largest<br/>
of them are built of coral or blocks of<br/>
lava. * * *Most have bells and the<br/>
"sound of the church going bell"<br/>
among the hills and valleys of those<br/>
Islands, seemed to me as suggestive, as<br/>
delightful as among the hills and val-<br/>
leys of my native land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In reply to Manly Hopkins's His-<br/>
tory of the Sandwich Islands publish-<br/>
ed in London in 1862 and intended<br/>
to disparage the labors of the mission-<br/>
aries, Mr. Damon the well known<br/>
Seaman's chaplin at Honolulu and<br/>
editor of the Friend's newspaper<br/>
says.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mr. Hopkins has never visited the<br/>
Islands, and we have lived among the<br/>
Hawaiian people more than twenty<br/>
years. We have visited every inhab-<br/>
ited island of the group except Nii-<br/>
hau; we have visited every mission-<br/>
ary station on the Islands, and some<br/>
of them repeatedly; we are personally<br/>
acquainted with every missionary and<br/>
his family; we have spent many sab-<br/>
baths at the out stations; we have<br/>
traveled with and among Hawaiians<br/>
on sea and land; we have slept in<br/>
their houses; we are personally ac-<br/>
quainted with hundreds and thousands<br/>
of them; we have worshiped in their<br/>
churches; we have sat with them<br/>
around the 'table of the Lord.' Now<br/>
this is the honest conclusion to which<br/>
we have come as the result of our<br/>
observation, that, in proportion to the<br/>
population of the Islands, there are,<br/>
upon an average, as many christians<br/>
(members of the Prot. churches in<br/>
good standing) as there are among the<br/>
people of America or Europe; we<br/>
will not except New England, Scot-<br/>
land, or England or any other parti-<br/>
cularly favored portion of those<br/>
countries."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAUM KLAU.
CHAPTER XV.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When a school boy has completed<br/>
his speech, and made his bow, he<br/>
jumps from the stage with glee, and<br/>
sits in a corner to enjoy the speeches<br/>
of his fellows I promised certain<br/>
chapters to the community and as I<br/>
put my pen to the last, my heart goes<br/>
pit-a-pat for joy, that my task is<br/>
done. I shall now read the speeches<br/>
that are to come, and watch the coun-<br/>
tenances of the public as they frown<br/>
and smile at the expense of the poor<br/>
speech maker.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I began with the commerce of the<br/>
country and here I shall end. The<br/>
king has patronized commerce. The<br/>
result is, that Siam has greater facili-<br/>
ties to take a stand among other na-<br/>
tions of the earth, in commerce, than<br/>
in any other department. In com-<br/>
merce it has great advantages even for<br/>
European capilalists, and for the na-<br/>
tive community, its facilities are un-<br/>
surpassed. The facilities for prepar-<br/>
ing rice for exportation, which must<br/>
ever remain the first staple product in<br/>
Siam, are very great. The only mis-<br/>
fortune is that the natives are not<br/>
prepared to second and promote im-<br/>
provements as they are introduced.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The steam-rice-mills, with one ex-<br/>
ception, are owned and controlled by<br/>
foreigners, while the natives yet cleave<br/>
to their handmills. The Bangkok<br/>
Dock Company have a magnificent<br/>
dock, but the natives yet cleave to<br/>
their mud docks, or have not patriot-<br/>
ism sufficient to patronize their own,<br/>
but choose to patronize foreign ports<br/>
instead of encouraging home facilities,<br/>
and making their own thrive and<br/>
prosper. A man ought to be willing<br/>
to die for his country, not to say he<br/>
ought to patronize home always, if<br/>
home needs patronizing. Siam has<br/>
arrived at the period of its history<br/>
when it needs noble sons, to adopt<br/>
its interests as their own, to live for it,<br/>
to think for it, to spend their energies<br/>
and money to serve it. What! shall<br/>
foreigners give their lives to serve<br/>
Siam, and sacrifice their all for it, and<br/>
shall it not have noble sons to come<br/>
forward and think it their greatest<br/>
honor to live to serve their genera-<br/>
tion! God forbid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great thing now to be secured<br/>
is to make Siam self reliant,—to learn<br/>
to protect its own, and to encourage<br/>
others to patronize Siam when it pre-<br/>
sents superior incouragements, and<br/>
certainly it has great facilities in<br/>
commerce. Do you ask to build ship?<br/>
There is not better timber in all the<br/>
east, than Siam affords, nor cheaper.<br/>
Come and build ships and welcome,<br/>
and save the trouble of transporting<br/>
the timber. Docks are there certainly.<br/>
That of the Bangkok Dock Com-<br/>
pany has not a superior. Generous,<br/>
liberal, deserved patronage would make<br/>
it one of Siam’s greatest sources of<br/>
improvement. Young Siam must come<br/>
forth manfully and stand by this noble<br/>
enterprise to a man. I am glad, one<br/>
that Siam loves especially to honor,<br/>
because he comes near the king, is<br/>
personally interested in its success.<br/>
The very idea of a generous outlay<br/>
of money for the good of his country,<br/>
must enlarge his ideas, and prepare<br/>
him to devise liberal things. I am<br/>
sorry to say, as yet it seems easier to<br/>
spend thousands on some gala day, to<br/>
fill the fancy for the hour and then<br/>
become food for worms, than to in-<br/>
vest in some substantial patriotic en-<br/>
terprise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The regulations for commerce, al-<br/>
ready take the type of European ports.<br/>
A harbor master was one of the king's<br/>
first liberal salaried officers, and this<br/>
officer being a very efficient man, a<br/>
man after John Bull's own heart, that<br/>
never gives up, persevering under al-<br/>
most unsurmountable barriers, he has<br/>
port regulations, after the manner of<br/>
European harbors, signed and sanction-<br/>
ed by government. Every ship that<br/>
comes into port has the printed regul-<br/>
ations, and all the native vessels are<br/>
required by law, to have their clear-<br/>
ance papers from the harbor Master,<br/>
and to receive their masters and crews<br/>
in harbor through him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The desideratum now is a Semi-<br/>
nary for teaching the people purpo-<br/>
sing to give themselves to maritime busi-<br/>
ness, to become skillful seamen and<br/>
ship masters. The greatest shipowner<br/>
in Siam received his wealth from an<br/>
indefatigable father. He needs some<br/>
worthy object to employ his wealth,<br/>
which shall do good to his fellow men,<br/>
serve his country and the God who<br/>
has permitted him to become the<br/>
possessor of great wealth. Why could<br/>
not this very man found a seminary<br/>
to promote the interests of commerce,<br/>
and with a design to make his nation<br/>
great and good, give much energy to<br/>
this one end. He might invest a few<br/>
thousands in a library for a seaman's<br/>
home, and see to it, that that home<br/>
was an honorable one. He could do<br/>
much to give character to shipmasters,<br/>
by patronizing the very best for his<br/>
own ships, securing and discharging<br/>
in the Siamese port, thus giving sanc-<br/>
tion to wholesome laws. His wealth<br/>
may not seem a great sum for his own<br/>
wants, but his all would be little, if he<br/>
should purpose to serve liberally the<br/>
whole nation; while the stimulus<br/>
that such an object would secure,<br/>
would make his wealth productive and<br/>
be an investment that would bring<br/>
certain blessings, to the bestower.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A narrow policy is always an inse-<br/>
cure policy. He that would be secure-<br/>
ly great and go on increasing in great-<br/>
ness, must sacrifice self and serve his<br/>
race. If ones country demands thought<br/>
and effort and exertion, let the coun-<br/>
try have it. If the country has al-<br/>
ready attained to a high position, then<br/>
the heart should go out to other na-<br/>
tions which have not attained to pre-<br/>
eminence. The higher position a man<br/>
has, the more he should strive to be a<br/>
noble, generous, liberal minded man.<br/>
Let the highest nobleman stand by<br/>
the best interests of the king, and sup-<br/>
port the best interests of the kingdom.<br/>
Let him prepare himself to see the<br/>
end from the beginning, and with no-<br/>
ble aims, generous impulses, and far<br/>
seeing policy, stride fearlessly on,<br/>
hoping all good, and trusting the fu-<br/>
ture to the honesty and integrity of<br/>
his purpose, and his noble, generous<br/>
acts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Young Siam ought to have many<br/>
such men in her ranks at the present
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
moment. Ten such would save her in<br/>
the hour of need, and give her ad-<br/>
vantages and impulses which would<br/>
rend the fetters that now render the<br/>
nation powerless, and give them the<br/>
power that always dwells with those<br/>
who purpose to do right and seek for<br/>
truth in every purpose that moves<br/>
them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A niggardly, selfish, narrow policy<br/>
kills any country. Live and let live,<br/>
is the watchword for progress. Let<br/>
the European community who have<br/>
drunk in a liberal policy with their<br/>
mother's milk, give Siam a noble ex-<br/>
ample in the policy which governs<br/>
them; and not allow themselves to<br/>
be characterized by a narrow, selfish<br/>
policy as soon as they breathe the<br/>
Siamese atmosphere. Let no one<br/>
stoop to retard the car of progress,<br/>
though it may interfere with his own<br/>
personal good. There's room enough<br/>
for all. Say do and God bless you,<br/>
and not don't or i'll kill you.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gambling. Chapter II.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The hui lottery of Bangkok, which<br/>
we described last week, though by it-<br/>
self alone a tremendous curse to both<br/>
people and government, by no means<br/>
monopolizes the evils of gambling in<br/>
this city. It is not responsible for<br/>
more than one quarter of the aggre-<br/>
gate of the poverty and ruin done by<br/>
legalized and systematized games of<br/>
chance. There are seven or eight other<br/>
kinds of gambling which draw into<br/>
their several vortices far more from<br/>
the lower classes of the people than<br/>
the hue lotteries. Their names in the<br/>
Siamese tongue are poh, cood, p'ui<br/>
ipong duut sukaa ye. The first three<br/>
have by far the most power to swell<br/>
the revenue, and consequently the<br/>
most power for evil upon the people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first is played with a small square<br/>
brass box accurately fitted into ano-<br/>
ther which shuts over it like the cov-<br/>
er of a calip[?]t excepting that it covers<br/>
the whole extent of the box. The die<br/>
is put into this box and shaken about<br/>
a few times, and then exposed to pub-<br/>
lic view. The second is played with<br/>
cowries or ots, and the third with<br/>
small cards. All the various kinds of<br/>
gambling carried on in Bangkok and<br/>
its suburbs are included in the same<br/>
farm with the hui lottery. It is be-<br/>
lieved that the farmer, or company as<br/>
it is, pays into the royal treasury for<br/>
the monopoly annually about 500,000<br/>
Ticals—-$300,000. This company has<br/>
no control over the gambling in the<br/>
several provinces of Siam. Each of<br/>
these is understood to have a gambling<br/>
farmer of its own. We have no means<br/>
of forming any accurate estimate of<br/>
the revenue derived from them, but<br/>
would judge that the aggregate of<br/>
them would at least quadruple the<br/>
sum obtained by the metropolitic gam-<br/>
bling farm. If so then we have the<br/>
round sum of $1,200,000 of royal<br/>
revenue sucked like a vampire out of<br/>
the heart of the body politic, every<br/>
year, and nothing given in lieu for it,<br/>
but the most corroding excitement year<br/>
in and year out, and with it general<br/>
blasting and mildew of the hopes of<br/>
the people, and nineteen twentieths of<br/>
all the slavery the quarrelling, the<br/>
thieving and robbing, suicides and<br/>
murder in the land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The kinds of gambling of which<br/>
we are now speaking, so far as this<br/>
city and suburbs are concerned, are<br/>
farmed out by the chief farmer to<br/>
sub-farmers located in the different<br/>
sections of the city, for specified sums,<br/>
to be paid annually in equal instal-<br/>
ments monthly. These sub-farmers<br/>
frequently sell their privileges to oth-<br/>
er parties, but still holding themselves<br/>
responsible for the payment of their<br/>
individual farms. Every sub-farmer<br/>
will of course do all he can to make<br/>
money out of his farm. And to this<br/>
end he establishes gambling stalls in<br/>
all the most eligible situations within<br/>
the limits of his farm. Consequently<br/>
you can scarcely go in any direction<br/>
five minutes on land or on water with-<br/>
out coming to a gambling shed or a<br/>
gambling floating house. You cannot<br/>
send your servant to market any<br/>
where without placing him under<br/>
temptations to stop in some gambling<br/>
shop by his way to try his luck at the<br/>
games, and that too with the money<br/>
which you have put into his hand for<br/>
purchasing food for your table. We<br/>
cannot number the times that we have<br/>
had our souls vexed by the long tar-<br/>
rying of our cooks at the market or<br/>
somewhere between it and us on ac-<br/>
count of their getting involved in some<br/>
of those [?] of the devil, the gamb-<br/>
ling shops. Having lost all the mo-<br/>
ney we gave them, they are compelled<br/>
to seek some friend from whom they<br/>
can borrow enough to supply its place,<br/>
and with it to make the purchases we<br/>
ordered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Language cannot begin to describe<br/>
the confusion and misery this gam-<br/>
bling produces in families. The fol-<br/>
lowing is a fair illustration of one<br/>
phase of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But a few days since our hired<br/>
man whom we have been in the<br/>
habit of sending early in the morning<br/>
for our milk, where it is milked from<br/>
the cows, was most promptly and<br/>
clearly brought out in such practices,<br/>
and that on rather of a large scale.<br/>
Thinking him one of our most trust-<br/>
worthy servants, being the husband<br/>
of one of our church members, we<br/>
sent by him every month for four<br/>
successive times the sum of 4⅛ Ticals<br/>
to pay a bill of milk for one family.<br/>
The owner of the milk having been<br/>
hood winked by our servant, waited<br/>
full four months before he came to us<br/>
to enquire about the non-payment of<br/>
the monthly bills, saying that the ser-<br/>
vant had reported to him that he had<br/>
lost some of them in the river by the<br/>
capsizing of his little skiff; at another<br/>
time by loaning the sum to a friend<br/>
of his; and so forth. Hearing this<br/>
report we summoned the man to us to<br/>
give an account of himself in the pre-<br/>
sence of our milk-creditor. He could<br/>
do no other but confess that he had<br/>
lost each of the four sums of 4⅛ Ti-<br/>
cals by gambling, that when the first<br/>
was lost he tried the game with the<br/>
second, hoping to get it back again at<br/>
least doubled, and when that slipped<br/>
into the hands of the master gambler,<br/>
he was tempted to try his fortune<br/>
again with the third 4⅛, and thus<br/>
with the fourth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Not many months since we sent by<br/>
our post boy a receipted Bill for<br/>
printing to an American merchant of<br/>
the city amounting to about twelve<br/>
Ticals. He sent the pay by the hand<br/>
of the post-boy, accompanied by a<br/>
letter certifying that he did so. The<br/>
post thought he must manage in some-<br/>
way to have the letter reach its<br/>
destination as it might be on other<br/>
very important business, and hence<br/>
sent the letter by the hand of another<br/>
person, and ran away from our ser-<br/>
vice. But his wife was living on our<br/>
premises and hence he could not run<br/>
far away from her. We heard of him<br/>
skulking around town, not daring to<br/>
show himself in daylight on our place.<br/>
We felt a compassion for him, parti-<br/>
cularly so, as he was a church mem-<br/>
ber and otherwise one of the most<br/>
faithful and efficient of our servants.<br/>
We sent word to him that we would<br/>
treat him kindly provided he would<br/>
confess his fault, solemnly promise re-<br/>
pentance, and pay damages to the<br/>
amount of one month's pay. He glad-<br/>
ly returned, and has been since remak-<br/>
ably faithful and useful to us in his<br/>
calling.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A wife of one our most frugal, in-<br/>
dustrious, and faithful servants be-<br/>
came bewitched with the prigambling<br/>
near her house. No importunity, nor<br/>
authority, nor punishment from her<br/>
husband could stop her from spend-<br/>
ing nearly all her time in that porch<br/>
of hell, generally losing, but winning<br/>
just often enough to keep up the hope<br/>
of coming out affluent at last. Thus<br/>
she waxed more and more desperate,<br/>
utterly neglecting her little children<br/>
pawning every thing almost on which<br/>
she could lay hands in her house; and<br/>
when her own goods and her husbands<br/>
failed, borrowing of her neighbors;<br/>
and thus involving him in debts<br/>
which must be paid even though the<br/>
wife and children and husband, have<br/>
all to be pawned as slaves in lieu of<br/>
them. The husband felt that he must<br/>
divorce her for this reason, and did<br/>
so. She took the babe for her share<br/>
of the children, and he the three older<br/>
children. She went to her family<br/>
connections among the Peguans and<br/>
married another man, and he took ano-<br/>
ther wife and thus they are still living.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now such cases are occurring con-<br/>
tinually among our own servants, and<br/>
they may doubtless be counted by<br/>
thousands weekly in this city. One<br/>
case similar in a wife on the very<br/>
verge of committing suicide, was under<br/>
God rescued by one of the missionary<br/>
ladies, by kind words and a judicious-<br/>
ly helping hand. She now seems to<br/>
have been entirely broken of the love<br/>
of gambling, and makes again a faith-<br/>
ful wife and provident mother.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are two seasons of three<br/>
holidays each every year when all the<br/>
people are allowed to gamble when and<br/>
where they please. These are at the<br/>
times of the Siamese New-year and<br/>
Songkran and the people plunge into<br/>
with the greatest zest. This freedom<br/>
seems to operate as a bait to all classes,<br/>
giving them an irresistable desire to<br/>
gamble at other times. Hence it<br/>
comes to be accounted by government<br/>
as a license that works together for<br/>
the increase of the royal revenue from<br/>
the gambling farms. Oh that the<br/>
government could see that it works<br/>
rottenness in the very roots and heart<br/>
of the kingdom!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At all other times, outside of those<br/>
two holiday seasons, the people are<br/>
required by the great power delegated<br/>
to the chief farmer to gamble in the<br/>
places appointed, that he may be en-<br/>
abled to pay promptly the monthly<br/>
instalments on the pledges he has<br/>
given to government.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Steamer Chow Phya left Singapore<br/>
on Wednesday evening 21st inst. and<br/>
arrived at the bar on Sunday evening<br/>
25th inst. Crossed the bar on Monday<br/>
at 6.30 A.M. and arrived at Bangkok<br/>
at 11 A.M. Had fine weather through-<br/>
out the passage. She brought the<br/>
following passengers viz:—Hon. R.<br/>
Marsham, R. C. Wood Esq. E. E.<br/>
Anguttia and twenty deck passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have heard of no local news of<br/>
any special interest since our last issue.<br/>
As usual nearly all the avenues to the<br/>
affairs of the Europeans in the city<br/>
and country are shut up, or at least<br/>
significantly silent. It is well known<br/>
that our columns are continually open<br/>
for reports from the many consular<br/>
courts located here, and would gladly<br/>
publish them: but not one of them has<br/>
a word to say of its affairs. Can it<br/>
be possible that there is nothing ever<br/>
doing at any of the nine consulates<br/>
that would be interesting to the pub-<br/>
lic to see in print? Is it possible that<br/>
this is an evidence of their loving<br/>
darkness rather than light? We are<br/>
not willing, as yet, to adopt this sen-<br/>
timent; and are inclined to think their<br/>
silence attributable more to negli-<br/>
gence of what would interest and pro-<br/>
fit the public in their affairs than to<br/>
any other cause. But we beg to en-<br/>
quire, is such reticence usual at con-<br/>
sulates in any other Asiatic city, and<br/>
if not why should it be requisite in<br/>
this great metropolis? As the trans-<br/>
actions at the several Consulates are<br/>
taken for granted to be just and no-<br/>
ble, far above that of any court of<br/>
equity among the heathen about them,<br/>
they would doubtless exert a happy<br/>
influence upon the heathen courts if<br/>
published in the local papers both<br/>
Siamese and English, because the power<br/>
of example is far greater than that of<br/>
precept. And if published they<br/>
would prevent many false reports<br/>
circulated concerning the Consular<br/>
courts, which work practical injury<br/>
to both the heathen and christian<br/>
public. It seems to us, hence a duty<br/>
as mere philanthropists which the<br/>
several consuls owe to themselves, this<br/>
heathen government and people to<br/>
make public here the most important<br/>
transactions at their several courts.<br/>
We greatly desire to have this heathen<br/>
people and government receive fre-<br/>
quently such practical lessons in ju-<br/>
risprudence as the several European<br/>
and American Consuls in this city are<br/>
able to give them, and we would see<br/>
that they are faithfully translated into<br/>
the Siamese language and duly pub-<br/>
lished.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The first volume of our paper was<br/>
favored with regular reports from the<br/>
Commissioner of the Police. But<br/>
this volume has been able to procure<br/>
scarcely one. Have there been no<br/>
occurrences of public interest in the<br/>
field of the Commissioner for the last<br/>
six months? That cannot be the fact.<br/>
Why then has he thus retired from<br/>
public view?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad to report that the court<br/>
of His E. Chow Phya Kalahome is<br/>
now occasionally furnishing reports of<br/>
its proceedings for our Siamese Recor-<br/>
der, and that they are very acceptable<br/>
to our Siamese readers.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The season of Siamese holidays have<br/>
nearly past. There was a vast boat<br/>
procession on the 24th inst. for escort-<br/>
ing a little relic of Buddh to a distant<br/>
temple. It passed through the Bang-<br/>
kok-yai canal, going inland. We<br/>
judge that there were at least five<br/>
thousand people engaged in it, all<br/>
seated in small open sampans and<br/>
skiffs. It was half a mile long, and<br/>
the boats passed from two to four<br/>
side by side, thickly studding the<br/>
canal. We observed that a very large<br/>
majority of the people were women<br/>
and girls, all arrayed in their very<br/>
best costume, and most of them wear-<br/>
ing gentlemen's hats of bamboo, grass,<br/>
and felt. The few men and boys<br/>
seemed to have it for their part in the<br/>
concern to make a great noise with<br/>
drums, gongs, horns, and shouting.<br/>
Some of them were dressed in the<br/>
most comical and ridiculous style, hats<br/>
topsy-turvy, coats and panungs of the<br/>
roughest and raggedest material, faces<br/>
painted black, red and white, with old<br/>
pots and kettles and other things in-<br/>
numerable and indescribable in their<br/>
sampans to attract attention.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sacred relic was placed on a<br/>
high gilded throne in a Chinese jolly<br/>
boat, under a party-colored canopy,<br/>
with a band of Chinese gong-beaters<br/>
and horn players to make a jargon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have seen nothing more heath-<br/>
enish for years. It would strike an<br/>
unaccustomed European that all that<br/>
ado was a mere farce, with the view<br/>
to ridicule Buddhism. But no—It<br/>
was to honor idolatry and make merit<br/>
for the eternal future. What a de-<br/>
lusion!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that the Siamese<br/>
government have within a few days,<br/>
received about a dozen howitzers.<br/>
These with several thousand rifles<br/>
imported some weeks since evince a<br/>
purpose to prepare for the defence<br/>
of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that a new Governor has<br/>
been inaugurated at Macao, and that<br/>
he has written to the Siamese govern-<br/>
ment to the purpose that he contem-<br/>
plates a visit here in a few weeks to,<br/>
pay the respects of the Portuguese<br/>
government to His Majesty the king,<br/>
and that he will come in the capacity of<br/>
Ambassador Plenipotentiary to Siam,<br/>
China and Japan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Barrett of the Am. Ship<br/>
“Windward” being likewise a Pres-<br/>
byterian preacher of the gospel, sup-<br/>
plied the Prot. Pulpit! in this city on<br/>
the last Lord’s day with great accep-<br/>
tance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has obligingly yielded to the<br/>
requests of his christian friends to<br/>
preach again at the same place on the<br/>
next sabbath. We would earnestly so-<br/>
licit a full attendance at the usual<br/>
hour of 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We observe that Emigration to the<br/>
U. S. America is increasing wonder-<br/>
fully. In the single month of July last<br/>
there were not less than 60,000 emi-<br/>
grants from Europe arriving in N<br/>
York about half of whom were from<br/>
England, Scotland, and Ireland. Such<br/>
facts plainly show what opinion the<br/>
masses of the people in Europe have<br/>
of the U. S. We think there views<br/>
well founded.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China Telegraphic Summary.
China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
O. C. MAIL, 1ST Nov.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French Admiral has sailed for<br/>
Corea, but active operations will be de-<br/>
ferred until after the winter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American schooner GENERAL<br/>
SHERMAN was seized in the river leading<br/>
to the Capital of Corea. The master<br/>
and crew and two English gentlemen<br/>
(passengers) were tied down in their<br/>
berths and the ship was set fire to. They<br/>
all perished in the flames.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A daring case of piracy on native<br/>
junks has occurred off Ningpo. The<br/>
Customs lorcha tender to the PAOTSHU'S<br/>
was beaten off in attempting to aid the<br/>
junks with 5 men killed and two wound-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Large bodies of Ngin-foi have ap-<br/>
peared on the borders of Shantung and<br/>
Honan. Tsen-kwo-fau has been sent<br/>
against them and the Viceroy will aid<br/>
him in person with a considerable force.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An interview has taken place between<br/>
Admiral King and the Taotai at Shang-<br/>
hai with reference to the suppression of<br/>
piracy.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The shock of an earthquake was felt<br/>
at Shanghai on the 23d October.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A farewell ball was given at Macao<br/>
on the 16th instant to Governor AMAR-<br/>
AL. A large number of people from<br/>
Hongkong including Sir H. and Lady<br/>
Macdonnell were present.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The missing cutter of H. M. S. OS-<br/>
PREY has returned; all well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A rifle association has been formed at<br/>
Hongkong under the patronage of H. E.<br/>
the Governor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A heavy gale blew at Hongkong dur-<br/>
ing the 22nd and 23rd instants. The<br/>
praya wall is injured, and a few native<br/>
lives were lost. Two vessels were blown<br/>
out to sea from Macao, one of which<br/>
was six days absent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 20th Regiment is ordered to th<br/>
Cape, and will be relieved by the 73rd.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that the Sultan of Soo-<br/>
loo has made over a certain area of ter-<br/>
ritory to the Prussian Government, but<br/>
where situated is uncertain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A most disastrous fire took place at<br/>
Hongkong on the night of the 30th in-<br/>
stant. Over 200 native houses have been<br/>
destroyed. It is not yet certain whether<br/>
any lives have been lost, but it is believ-<br/>
ed not.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The death of the Tycoon has been of-<br/>
ficially proclaimed. Stotshbashi has not<br/>
yet however been acknowledged as his<br/>
successor by the Mikado. Stotshbashi is<br/>
prosecuting the war against Chosin with<br/>
great vigour, and the troops of the latter<br/>
have been twice defeated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Japanese embassy in charge of the<br/>
Governor of Hakodadi proceeds to Rus-<br/>
sia per next mail to settle the Saghalien<br/>
difficulty and arrange boundaries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Much excitement exists in Japan re-<br/>
specting the "squeezes" of compradores<br/>
on the dollars—in some cases refusing to<br/>
receive them except at 7 per cent under<br/>
their true value.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A second edition of a Japanese-Eng-<br/>
lish Dictionary has been published by a<br/>
Japanese gentleman. The whole edition<br/>
of 1,000 was sold within a few days of<br/>
its publication.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
From the O. C. Mail Nov. 15th.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Pilotage regulations for the Min and<br/>
Yangtsze have been drawn up concur-<br/>
rently by foreign representative and<br/>
Chinese officials. Only pilots who<br/>
have passed examination can act. This<br/>
is important to outcoming ship mas-<br/>
ters, as hitherto pilotage has been un-<br/>
regulated.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The new Hongkong dollar is accept-<br/>
ed by the Chinese government at Can-<br/>
ton in payment of Customs duties. If<br/>
the British minister at Peking would<br/>
use his influence, the new coinage<br/>
very probably would be made legal<br/>
tender at all the ports. Some excel-<br/>
lent imitations of the new dollar are in<br/>
circulation in Hongkong. A gang of<br/>
Chinese coiners has been discovered.<br/>
Two dies for five cent pieces have been<br/>
stolen from the Government Mint;<br/>
the thief is not discovered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Macgowan agent for the East<br/>
India Telegraph Company, has arrived,<br/>
and will immediately commence ne-<br/>
gociations for erection of telegraphic<br/>
wires between Canton and Hongkong
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Lubra piracy case is still be-<br/>
fore the magistrates. One pirate has<br/>
been identified by Mrs. Howes, wid-<br/>
ow of the murdered Captain.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Active operations against the Honan<br/>
and Shantung Nienfei, are commenced<br/>
by the Chinese Imperialists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Treaty between Belgium and China<br/>
is [ratified?]; the exchange was followed<br/>
by a banquet.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is announced that a French line<br/>
of steamers is being planned to run<br/>
from Panama to Hongkong, to effect<br/>
junction with the Messageries Imperi-<br/>
ales steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The licence hitherto held by per-<br/>
sons in Hongkong to engage coolies<br/>
for Surinam, has been resigned by hol-<br/>
ders to the Dutch Consul, in conse-<br/>
quence of "[crimping?]" disclosures in a<br/>
police case against a coolie "contractor."<br/>
A vessel chartered for Surinam with<br/>
coolies had her charter withdrawn for<br/>
the same reason.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The French expedition to Corea to<br/>
demand satisfaction for murder of Mis-<br/>
sionaries, penetrated to the city of<br/>
Kanghao, which they found nearly de-<br/>
serted by inhabitants. No resistance<br/>
was offered. A Mandarin, taken on<br/>
board the admiral's ship, admitted the<br/>
murders, and added it was the right<br/>
way to serve Missionaries. French<br/>
looted the place, finding 190,000 francs<br/>
in silver. A letter was received from<br/>
the King inviting the admiral to pro-<br/>
ceed to the capital to negotiate. The<br/>
admiral refused, and sent a despatch<br/>
demanding—First:—Punishment of<br/>
the three principal Ministers who in-<br/>
stigated the execution of the late mis-<br/>
sionaries. Second:—-An individual<br/>
with full powers to be sent to treat<br/>
with him. The Messenger departed<br/>
with the note No answer yet. The<br/>
river leading up to the capital is de-<br/>
clared under blockade. The King of<br/>
Corea has determined on resistance,<br/>
contrary to the advice of Chinese offi-<br/>
cials, who counselled submission and<br/>
apology.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The burning of the General Sher-<br/>
man, American schooner, by order of<br/>
the Corean king, is confirmed. Pas-<br/>
sengers and crew were tied in their<br/>
berths and burned with the ship. We<br/>
have not yet heard of any proceedings<br/>
having been taken by American con-<br/>
suls in reference to the matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is not much news from Japan.<br/>
The new Tycoon is desirous of peace,<br/>
and the war in the south is suspended.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Come this way, Father."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During a short visit to the seashore<br/>
of our State, some two years since,<br/>
with a party of friends, it was pro-<br/>
posed, one bright afternoon, that we<br/>
should go down the harbor on a fish-<br/>
ing excursion. We accordingly start-<br/>
ed, and after sailing about three miles,<br/>
a young lady of the company declined<br/>
going further, and requested us to<br/>
land her on one of the small islands in<br/>
the harbor, where she proposed to stay<br/>
until our return. My little boy, then<br/>
about four years old, preferred remain-<br/>
ing with her. Accordingly we left<br/>
them and proceeded some six miles<br/>
further. We remained out much<br/>
longer than we intended, and as night<br/>
approached, a thick fog set in from<br/>
the sea, entirely enshrouding us.<br/>
Without compass, and not knowing<br/>
the right direction to steer, we groped<br/>
our way along for some hours, until<br/>
we discovered the breaking surf on<br/>
one of the islands, but were at a loss<br/>
to know which one of them. I stood<br/>
up in the stern of the boat, where I<br/>
had been steering, and shouted with<br/>
all my strength. I listened a moment<br/>
and heard, through the thick fog, and<br/>
above the breaking of the surf, the<br/>
sweet voice of my boy, calling, "Come<br/>
this way, father-—steer straight for<br/>
me; I'm waiting for you!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We steered by that sound, and soon<br/>
my little boy leaped into my arms<br/>
with joy, saying: "I knew you would<br/>
hear me, father!" and nestled to sleep<br/>
on my bosom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The child and the maiden are both<br/>
sleeping now. They died in two short<br/>
weeks after the period I refer to, with<br/>
hardly any interval of time between<br/>
their deaths.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, when tossed upon the rough<br/>
sea of life, without compass or guide,<br/>
enveloped in fog and surrounded by<br/>
rocks, I seem to hear the sound of<br/>
that cherub voice calling from the<br/>
bright shore, "Come this way, father!<br/>
steer straight for me!" When op-<br/>
pressed with sadness, I take my way<br/>
to our quiet cemetery, and still, as I<br/>
stand on one little mound, the same<br/>
musical voice echoes from thence,<br/>
"Come this way, father,-—I'm waiting<br/>
for you!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}I remember a voice<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Which once guided my way.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}When, lost on the sea,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Fog enshrouded I lay.<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}'Twas the voice of a child,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}As he stood on the shore—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It sounded out clear<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}O'er the dark billows' roar;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Come this way, my father!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Steer straight for me,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Here safe on the shore<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I am waiting for thee!"<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}I remember the voice,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}As it led our lone way,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Midst rocks and through breakers,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And high-dashing spray;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}How sweet to my heart<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Did it sound from the shore,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}As it echoed out clear<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}O'er the dark billows' roar,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Come this way, my father!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Steer straight for me;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Here safe on the shore<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I am waiting for thee."<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}I remember my joy<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}When I held to my breast<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The form of that dear one,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}And soothed it to rest;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For the tones of my child<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Whispered soft to my ear,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"I called you, dear father,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I knew you would hear<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The voice of your darling<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Far o'er on the sea,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}While, safe on the shore,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I was waiting for thee."<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}That voice is now hushed<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Which then guided my way,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The form I then pressed<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Is now mingled with clay;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}But the tones of my child<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}Still sound in my ear,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"I am calling you, father!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}O, can you not hear<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The voice of your darling,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}As you toss on life's sea?<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}For, on a bright shore<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I am waiting for thee."<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}I remember that voice,-—<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}In many a lone hour<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}It speaks to my heart<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}With fresh beauty and power,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And still echoes far out<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}O'er life's troubled wave,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the sound from the loved lipe<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}That lie in the grave,—-<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}"Come this way, my father!<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}O, steer straight for me!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Here, safely in heaven,<br/>
{{< news/indent3 >}}I am waiting for thee."<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
ZION'S HERALD.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shenandoah
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the U. S. sloop of war “Shenandoah”<br/>
expected here very shortly, the follow-<br/>
ing particulars respecting her will be read<br/>
with interest. The extract is from the<br/>
Bombay TIMES of India :—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The United States sloop of war SHEN-<br/>
NDOAH, Capt. Goldsborough, arrived in<br/>
Bombay harbour on September 28th, her<br/>
at port of call having been Muscat, which<br/>
acc abe left on the 18th inst. Her command.<br/>
reports on the day before leaving Mus-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
cat, the uncle of the present Imaum landed<br/>
and took possession of the fort, and after-<br/>
wards opened fire upon the town The I-<br/>
maum appealed to Capt. Goldsborough for<br/>
assistance, but was informed that the lat-<br/>
ter had no power to interfere. When the<br/>
steamer started for Bombay the trouble was<br/>
not settled. Upon anchoring in the har-<br/>
bor a salute of twenty one guns was fired<br/>
from the saluting battery, which was re-<br/>
turned by the SHENANDOAH, followed by<br/>
a salute of five guns to Mr. Ketridge, the<br/>
United StatesConsul.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The SHENANDOAH is a namesake of the<br/>
vessel which occupied such a prominent<br/>
position during the American struggle, and<br/>
was built in Philadelphia in 1863. She<br/>
is a wooden vessel, but is iron plated amid-<br/>
ships as a protection for her engines. Her<br/>
crew consists of 29 officers and 200 men,<br/>
and she carries nine guns, including two<br/>
90-pounder pivot riffled guns. During the<br/>
American war she formed one of the block-<br/>
ading squadron, and was only once engag-<br/>
ed in active warfare, when in an attack<br/>
upon Fort Fisher, North Carolina, she was<br/>
severely injured.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The SHENANDOAH left the States in De-<br/>
cember last, and has visited Fayal, Malei-<br/>
ra, Rio Janeiro, Cape Town, Mauritius, Ma-<br/>
dagascar, and Muscat.—-TRANSCRIPT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
General Grant.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Grant has authorized a writer,<br/>
whose letter appears in another part of<br/>
this sheet, to make a statement of his views<br/>
on public affairs. It is to the following<br/>
effect: That, next to the President, he is<br/>
the head of the army of the United States:<br/>
not the leader of a political party; that he<br/>
does not consider the army a place for a<br/>
politician; that he will not permit himself<br/>
to be committed to any party, and that<br/>
the army shall not be made a political ma-<br/>
chine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
These expressions furnish a new and stri-<br/>
king illustration of that profound common<br/>
sense which is at once the greatest charm<br/>
of General Grant and his strongest hold<br/>
upon the affection and confidence of the<br/>
people. Whether he fights or speaks, he<br/>
strikes hard, and there is no excuse for or<br/>
misunderstanding. It is evident that the<br/>
General does not intend to be made the in-<br/>
strument of any party, nor will he be di-<br/>
verted from the strict performance of his<br/>
official duties by cajolery or threats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
EVENING POST.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Paris
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Emperor when at Hain, very much<br/>
studied the question of armaments, he now<br/>
has serious thoughts of passing from the<br/>
ory to practice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The problem to be solved is the follow-<br/>
ing:—to be able to place 1,200,000 on a<br/>
war footing at a very short notice,—the<br/>
Prussian military system,—seems of all<br/>
others that which offers the most advanta-<br/>
ges, there is one drawback and that is, that<br/>
it arms universal suffrage and indisposes<br/>
it.{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I think however, the general opinion is<br/>
for the adoption of the American volunteer<br/>
system, as the system of armed peace is a<br/>
most ruinous one for all European nations,<br/>
and in case of a war between Prussia and<br/>
France, there is no doubt but the French<br/>
system would be found wanting. Bismark<br/>
is well aware of this, and hence his arro-<br/>
gant and overbearing conduct toward us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This ambitious statesman now wants<br/>
nothing less than Dutch Limburg, he kind-<br/>
ly and generously proposes that France<br/>
should annex Belgium.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The sudden resignation of Monsieur<br/>
Drouyn de L'huys which took us by surprise,<br/>
is now no longer a subject of wonder, it<br/>
turns out that when the minister of Foreign<br/>
affairs was writing threatening letters to<br/>
Bismarck, summoning him to give France<br/>
some territorial compensation for the an-<br/>
nexation of Prussia, Napoleon III was se-<br/>
cretly writing polite and conciliatory letters<br/>
to the King of Prussia, telling him that he<br/>
wanted nothing, and was well pleased with<br/>
what had taken place in Germany.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Monsieur Drouyn de L'huye cut to the<br/>
quick by the conduct of the Emperor, threw<br/>
up his portfolio, it is a well known hitch<br/>
of Napoleon III to give his ministers but<br/>
the semblance of power.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Monsieur Lavalette, is substitute for<br/>
Monsieur de Moustier until he shall arrive<br/>
here from Constantinople, when he gets to<br/>
Paris he will find the line of policy he<br/>
will have to pursue, cut and direct the Im-<br/>
perial system of government which may<br/>
be very well when the sovereign is young,<br/>
vigorous and liberal; but a deplorable one<br/>
when he is old and ailing. Monsieur Rou-<br/>
her, who may be called Prime minister, is<br/>
all powerful and does with the Emperor<br/>
what he likes.—-PENANG ARGUS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-29_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What great city is like an habitual<br/>
drunkard? Berlin, because it is always<br/>
on a spree. (Berlin is on the river Spree.)
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why is an author a queer animal?<br/>
Because his tale comes out of his head.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Shall the great Housekeeper of<br/>
the world water his flowers, prune his<br/>
plants, fodder his cattle, and not feed<br/>
his children! Never think it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Quietness before God is one of the<br/>
most difficult of all Christian graces—<br/>
to sit where he places us, to be what<br/>
he would have us to be; and this as<br/>
long as he pleases.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The late Bishop Chase, of Illinois,<br/>
had a dislike to having Greek Roman<br/>
names imposed upon children, which he<br/>
displayed very pointedly on one occa-<br/>
sion when a child was brought to him<br/>
to be baptized. "Name this child," said<br/>
the Bishop. "Marcus Tullius Cicero,"<br/>
answered the father. "What!" "Mar-<br/>
cus Tullius Cicero." "Tut, tut! with<br/>
your heathen nonsense! Peter, I bap-<br/>
tize thee," &c., and the child was Pe-<br/>
ter thenceforth and forever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—At a meeting of church officers,<br/>
on one occasion, a certain person not<br/>
remarkable for purity of life, sent in a<br/>
request for admission into their fold.<br/>
One of the committee—-a rather rough<br/>
man—-on hearing the name of the in-<br/>
dividual, exclaimed: "That man!<br/>
Well, if that man is to be admitted to<br/>
the church, he ought to soak over<br/>
night!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The ending syllable "ough,"<br/>
which is such a terror to foreigners,<br/>
is shown up in its several pronuncia-<br/>
tions in the following lines:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Wife, make me some dumplings of dough,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}They are better than meal for my cough;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pray let them be'boiled till hot through,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}But not till they're heavy or tough,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Now I must be off to my plough,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And the boys (when they've had enough,)<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Must keep the flies off with a bough,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}While the ole mare drinks at the trough.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
—-"I wish you would pay a little at-<br/>
tention to what I am saying, sir," roared<br/>
an irate lawyer at an exasperated witness<br/>
"Well, I am paying as little as I can,"<br/>
was the calm reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CONUNDRUMS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What is it that goes when a wagon<br/>
goes, stops when a wagon stops, is of no<br/>
use to the wagon, and yet the wagon<br/>
cannot go without it? The noise of the<br/>
wheels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When is a blow from a lady welcome?<br/>
When she strikes you agreeably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Why is Athens like a worn-out shoe?<br/>
Because it once had a Solon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For what reasons does a duck go un-<br/>
der the water? For divers reasons. For<br/>
what reasons does he come out? For<br/>
sundry reasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For what reason does a fisherman blow<br/>
his horn? For selfish reasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Says the quaint writer, Barrow:<br/>
"There is no great difference between<br/>
the great Devil that frameth scandalous<br/>
reports, and the little imps that run<br/>
about and disperse them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-15_4_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have<br/>
received por last Mail a fine assortment<br/>
of clothes for gentlemen, as Jackets,<br/>
Waistcoats, Trousers etc. etc. fit for<br/>
the season.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-12-01_7_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
MENAM ROADS, PAKNAM
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REPORT BOAT:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam, with
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers and Mails from outside the Bar the
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers...... $ 1.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passage to or from the Bar...... $ 5.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Special boats to or from the Bar, $ 10.00
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (L. F.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
