---
linkTitle: 'February 15th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - February 15th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); February 15th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 30
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Vol. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 6.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EXTRACTS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SUMMARY OF INDIAN INTELLIGENCE.<br/>
—The Neilgherry Exerciser, a jour-<br/>
nal issuing somewhere under the Mad-<br/>
ras presidency, details a catalogue of<br/>
instances of the "Cattle Disease." The<br/>
local opinion on it corresponds with<br/>
the general one, by its being termed<br/>
the "purging disorder." It is report-<br/>
ed as largely prevalent in the neigh-<br/>
bourhood of Ootacamund on the<br/>
Neilgherries; and it is stated that it<br/>
was known on the plateau of the Hills<br/>
long before any European settled there.<br/>
It is there supposed to be "imported"<br/>
by bullocks that bring goods from the<br/>
plains." The casualties are thus re-<br/>
ported :—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In a small village near this station,<br/>
said to contain 140 head of cattle, 80<br/>
died in less than a month. In another,<br/>
7 miles off, 130 out of 160 died. A<br/>
wealthy Bavlagah owning 100 cattle<br/>
lost them all in a month, and a weal-<br/>
thy Todah, who had 60 buffaloes, was<br/>
made a beggar by the death of his<br/>
whole herd."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Home News, November 18th)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insurrection in Jamaica has<br/>
been completely suppressed. The out-<br/>
break was so sudden, that many bar-<br/>
barities were committed before the<br/>
authorities could bring the requisite<br/>
power to bear upon the insurgents;<br/>
but when they were able to act, the<br/>
result was decisive. The two leaders<br/>
were captured, and one of them, Gor-<br/>
don, a rich merchant and member of<br/>
the Legislature, was tried by drum-<br/>
head court martial and executed. No<br/>
less than two or three hundred of the<br/>
rebels have been hanged; and it is<br/>
hoped that the severity of those ex-<br/>
amples will have a beneficial effect.<br/>
Happily the rising which has just been<br/>
crushed was only an imperfect manifes-<br/>
tation of a much more formidable<br/>
design. It appears from papers which<br/>
have been found, that a plan was or-<br/>
ganised for a general rising of the ne-<br/>
groes throughout the island on Christ-<br/>
mas day, the object being the annihi-<br/>
lation of the whole white population,<br/>
and of all landed proprietors, white<br/>
and coloured. This horrible project<br/>
was frustrated by a mere accident.<br/>
One of the leaders was in danger of<br/>
arrest for some crime he had commit-<br/>
ted, and, in the hope of saving him-<br/>
self, he gave the signal for revolt be-<br/>
fore the plot was ripe. To this pre-<br/>
mature movement may be attributed<br/>
the failure of the diabolical conspiracy.<br/>
Had the rising been accomplished as<br/>
it was organised, there is little doubt<br/>
that our troops, instead of extinguish-<br/>
ing the rebellion, would have had to<br/>
reconquer the island.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fenian conspiracy in Ireland<br/>
may be considered in the last agonies<br/>
of a happy despatch. The queen bee<br/>
is taken, and the hive is broken up.<br/>
Stephens, the Head Centre who pas-<br/>
sed under a variety of other names,<br/>
has been arrested, brought before the<br/>
police court, and fully committed to<br/>
take his trial for treason. To do this<br/>
hero justice, he braved it out at the<br/>
police court with an audacity worthy<br/>
of a [?] as of the celebrated tailors of<br/>
Tooley street. He refused to acknow-<br/>
ledge the authority of the court; he<br/>
refused to admit any authority in<br/>
Ireland that emanated from England;<br/>
he would not acknowledge the force<br/>
of any law in Ireland that was imposed<br/>
by England; he went even farther—-<br/>
he absolutely and unequivocally de-<br/>
nied the existence of any English law<br/>
or authority in Ireland. It seems a<br/>
pitiful thing to inflict any punishment<br/>
upon an unhappy man whose proper<br/>
treatment would be a straitwaistcoat;<br/>
but law and authority must be upheld,<br/>
and examples must be made for the<br/>
sake of the rest of the community.<br/>
Stephens is clearly a “patriotic” lun-<br/>
atic. The whole of his recent conduct<br/>
shows plainly that he never could have<br/>
had a due sense of the personal dan-<br/>
ger to which he exposed himself. He<br/>
appears to have imagined that he bore<br/>
a “charmed life,” and that he was per-<br/>
fectly secure in the midst of the most<br/>
obvious peril. He lived in a conspi-<br/>
cuous house in an open situation, and<br/>
there, surrounded by luxuries far a-<br/>
bove his station, he kept a sort of<br/>
court for the reception of conspirators.<br/>
He was so confident of his safety, that<br/>
he made no great secret of his move-<br/>
ments, although he knew that he was<br/>
proclaimed, and that a reward was of-<br/>
fered for his capture. His wife was<br/>
impressed also with the conviction that<br/>
no harm could happen to him, and she<br/>
used accordingly to go out publicly<br/>
into the streets of Dublin to shop, just<br/>
as any other lady might do. But it<br/>
happened that she was known to some<br/>
of the police, and a watch was set up-<br/>
on her, and she was tracked home to<br/>
the lair where her husband and his<br/>
confederates were afterwards seized.<br/>
This enterprise ends the first act of<br/>
the Fenian drama; but it is not easy<br/>
to conjecture what is to follow.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Princess Helena.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Kiel newspaper mentions a rum-<br/>
our that the Princess Helena of Eng-<br/>
land is shortly to be betrothed to<br/>
Prince Christian of Augustenburg. The<br/>
'Post' of this morning believes that<br/>
this report is well founded, and adds:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The princess, who is the third<br/>
daughter of the Queen, is in her 20th<br/>
year while her future husband is in<br/>
his 34th. He is the brother of the<br/>
Duke of Augustenburg whose claims<br/>
to the Duchies of Schleswig-Holstein<br/>
have of late given rise to so much<br/>
dispute. The duke has, however, a<br/>
son, born in 1863, so that his broth-<br/>
er is only heir-presumptive to his<br/>
rights, whatever they may be. Prince<br/>
Frederick is a major in the Lancers of<br/>
the Guard of Prussia and, from the<br/>
anxious and motherly care which the<br/>
Queen bestows on all matters affecting<br/>
the happiness of her children, we may<br/>
safely presume that in character and<br/>
disposition he is all that every loyal<br/>
heart can wish to find in the husband<br/>
of a daughter of England. We un-<br/>
derstand that it is considered to be no<br/>
slight advantage in this royal match<br/>
that the prince having neither princi-<br/>
pality nor functions which would re-<br/>
quire his residence abroad, the future<br/>
Princess of Augustenburg will be able<br/>
to reside in England, and to continue<br/>
to afford to her Majesty those filial at-<br/>
tentions on which the Queen, like ev-<br/>
ery mother, sets so high an estimation.<br/>
This marriage, as adding to the hap-<br/>
piness of our beloved royal family, will<br/>
be welcomed by the nation with that<br/>
warm sympathy which universally at-<br/>
taches to all about the throne.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
America.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Recent instructions issued to the<br/>
provisional governors of the Southern<br/>
States by the President, requiring<br/>
them to continue the exercise of their<br/>
official functions, has caused great des-<br/>
appointment in South and North Car-<br/>
olina and Georgia. It is, however, un-<br/>
derstood that the President adopted<br/>
that course merely to prevent a pre-<br/>
mature withdrawal of national author-<br/>
ity, and not with any purpose of subver-<br/>
ting for any unnecessary length of<br/>
time the local governments. The<br/>
South Carolinians are very anxious<br/>
that Mr. Orr, the governor elect, shall<br/>
be regularly installed in office at the<br/>
earliest possible day. Memorials are<br/>
in circulation throughout the State,<br/>
praying the President to rely upon the<br/>
sincerity of the State, and to restore<br/>
her at once to all her full relations with<br/>
the national government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ovation to General Grant at the<br/>
Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York, was<br/>
a great affair. It is described as sur-<br/>
passing in grandeur, prestige and bril-<br/>
liancy anything heretofore witnessed<br/>
in America. The vast hotel was crowd-<br/>
ed to repletion by the elite of New<br/>
York, and an enthusiastic mass was<br/>
gathered together outside the building.<br/>
They were regaled with music and<br/>
fireworks. On the following day, Gen-<br/>
eral Grant was paraded through the<br/>
city, with a military escort en route<br/>
to Washington, and his reception was<br/>
most hearty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was reported that most of the<br/>
colored troops in Texas were to be<br/>
mustered out of the army, and this, it<br/>
is considered probable, accounts for<br/>
the sending of regiments to the Rio<br/>
Grande.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Few or no pardon applications are<br/>
coming in at the attorney general's of-<br/>
fice. The President has directed the<br/>
suspension of the issue of pardon war-<br/>
rants, except by special order to the<br/>
contrary. The suspension is under-<br/>
stood to be caused by the flagrant<br/>
breach of faith committed by some<br/>
who have been pardoned. 20,000<br/>
pardons have thus far been granted.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Jefferson Davis is reported to be in<br/>
fair health and serene mind. Nothing<br/>
was known at Fortress Monroe in re-<br/>
gard to his trial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'New York Herald' takes it<br/>
for granted that the Shenandoah would<br/>
be unconditionally surrendered, and<br/>
says:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to Captain Waddell, we<br/>
apprehend we shall have no material<br/>
difficulty. Being regarded as a pirate<br/>
by Great Britain and ourselves know-<br/>
ing him to be such, we have only to<br/>
remind the British Government that<br/>
we have an Extradition Treaty with<br/>
them which requires the rendition of<br/>
all criminal offenders against the laws<br/>
of either Power. On this ground, the<br/>
United States will demand Waddell,<br/>
and punish him as the laws and courts<br/>
of our country shall decide. England<br/>
cannot deny this claim or refuse to<br/>
grant it; or, if she do, she may find<br/>
in an incredibly short time the Fenian<br/>
Shenandoahs on the St. Lawrence and<br/>
Fenian Alabamas on the seas.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Tribune' says:—"The Shan-<br/>
andoah is where she should be, and<br/>
we trust our government will neither<br/>
claim nor accept her." It as well as<br/>
several other journals regards the re-<br/>
turn of the Shenandoah to England as<br/>
a fresh illustration of the truth of the<br/>
proverb that "curses, like chickens,<br/>
come home to roost."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The 'Times' of this morning con-<br/>
tains the following, in a letter from its<br/>
Philadelphia correspondent:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The correspondence published in<br/>
England between Earl Russell and<br/>
Minister Adams has not been regarded<br/>
in America as of any grave importance.<br/>
The publication has been anticipated<br/>
for some time, as Secretary Seward<br/>
and others connected with the govern-<br/>
ment have lately been hinting that a<br/>
demand for damages on account of<br/>
the depredation of the Confederate<br/>
cruisers had been made. It therefore<br/>
has not taken this country by surprise,<br/>
and long before the published corres-<br/>
pondence was made known the public<br/>
had considered the prospects of pay-<br/>
ment, and concluded, correctly as the<br/>
event proved, that payment would be<br/>
refused. Our people having come to<br/>
this conclusion have gone farther, and<br/>
made up their minds that if England<br/>
refused payment they would not sued<br/>
and about it, but would give up the<br/>
claim rather than break the peace be-<br/>
tween the countries. The commer-<br/>
cial ties binding together England and the<br/>
United States are too strong to be<br/>
broken, even for ten times the amount<br/>
of the claims made by Mr. Adams.<br/>
Mr. Seward has become convinced of<br/>
this, and, while he will no doubt ac-<br/>
cept the proposed reference to a com-<br/>
mission, should it decide against the<br/>
claim he will abandou all idea of any<br/>
further prosecution of a cause founded<br/>
on so questionable a title.-—House<br/>
News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The World on Fire.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The day had been fine, with a<br/>
moderat, wind from the northwest.<br/>
When the sun went down behind the<br/>
ridge of mountains limiting the day, a<br/>
perfect calm followed, with a sky<br/>
absolutely cloudless. At 4 P. M.,<br/>
there had been seen one solitary and<br/>
peculiar cloud hanging in the heavens<br/>
to the north about fifteen degrees<br/>
above the horizon. This cloud was<br/>
a deep, dark blue, looking much like<br/>
the capital letter S. This at last disap-<br/>
peared, and the night set in, still,<br/>
beautiful, and mild, with myriads of<br/>
stars shining with apparently greater<br/>
brilliancy than ever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I had gone on deck several times to<br/>
look at the beauteous scene, and at<br/>
nine o'clock was below in my cabin,<br/>
going to bed, when the captain hailed<br/>
me with the words, “Come ashore,<br/>
Hall, at once! The world is on fire!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I knew his meaning, and quick as<br/>
thought, I re-dressed myself, scram-<br/>
bled over several sleeping Innuits close<br/>
to my berth, and rushed to the com-<br/>
panion stairs. In another moment I<br/>
reached the deck, and, as the cabin<br/>
door swung open, a dazzling, over-<br/>
powering light, as if the world was<br/>
really ablaze under the agency of some<br/>
gorgeously colored fires, burst upon<br/>
my startled senses! How can I describe<br/>
it? Again, I say, no mortal hand can<br/>
truthfully do so. Let me, however,<br/>
in feeble, broken words, put down my<br/>
thoughts at the time, and try to give<br/>
some faint idea of what I saw.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
My first thought was, “Among the<br/>
gods, there is none like unto thee, O<br/>
Lord! neither are there any works<br/>
like unto thy works!” Then I tried<br/>
to picture the scene before me. Piles<br/>
of golden light, and rainbow light,<br/>
scattered along the azure vault, extend-<br/>
ing from behind the western horizon<br/>
to the zenith; thence down to the eas-<br/>
tern, with a belt of space within<br/>
twenty degrees in width, were the<br/>
fountains of beams like fire-threads,<br/>
that shot with the rapidity of light-<br/>
ning hither and thither upward and<br/>
athwart the great pathway indicated.<br/>
No sun, no moon, yet the heavens<br/>
were a glorious sight, flooded with<br/>
light. Even ordinary print could have<br/>
been easily read on deck.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Flooded with rivers of light. Yes,<br/>
flooded with light; and such light!<br/>
Light all but inconceivable. The<br/>
golden hues predominated; but, in<br/>
rapid succession, prismatic colors<br/>
leaped forth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We looked, we saw and trembled;<br/>
even as we gazed, the whole belt of<br/>
aurora began to be alive with flashes.<br/>
Then each pile or bank of light be-<br/>
come myriads; some now dropping<br/>
down the great pathway or belt, others<br/>
leaping with lightning flash from one<br/>
side, while more as quickly passed in<br/>
to the vacated space; some twisting<br/>
themselves into folds, entwining others<br/>
like enormous serpents, and all these<br/>
movements as quick as the eye could<br/>
follow. It seemed as if there was a<br/>
struggle with these heavenly lights to<br/>
reach and occupy the dome above our<br/>
heads. Then the whole arch above<br/>
became crowded. Down, down it<br/>
came; nearer and nearer it approached<br/>
us. Sheets of golden flame, corusc-at-<br/>
ing while leaping from the auroral<br/>
belt, seemed as if met in their course<br/>
by some mighty agency that turned<br/>
them into the colors of the rainbow.<br/>
Each of the seven primary, three<br/>
degrees in width, shot out to twenty-<br/>
one degrees—-the prismatic bows at<br/>
right angles with the belt.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While the auroral fires seemed to<br/>
be descending upon us, one of our<br/>
number could not help exclaiming:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Hark! hark! such a display! al-<br/>
most as if a warfare was going on<br/>
among the beauteous lights above-—so<br/>
palpable-—so near-—seems impossible<br/>
without noise.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But no noise accompanied this<br/>
wondrous display. All was silence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After we had again descended into<br/>
our cabin, so strong was the impres-<br/>
sion of awe left upon us that the cap-<br/>
tain said to me:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Well, during the last eleven years<br/>
I have spent mostly in these northern<br/>
regions, I have never seen any thing<br/>
of aurora to approach the glorious vivid<br/>
display just witnessed, and to tell you<br/>
the truth, friend Hall, I do not like<br/>
to see the like ever again" —Hall's<br/>
Arctic Researches.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Josh Billing's Opinion of Men
of Genius.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A big genius is generally a phool;<br/>
he knows how to do one or two things<br/>
so much that he ain't fit for anything<br/>
else; he is like a grey hound, good for<br/>
running fast, that's all. You kant<br/>
lara him easy more than you can an<br/>
eagle; he knows how to ti up and look<br/>
at the sun without winken, bekase he<br/>
was born so, and when he gets up on the<br/>
peke of the mountains and gets well lit,<br/>
you kant go tew him, nor he won't<br/>
come to you, but thare he sets till the<br/>
dinner bell rings. After dinner, he<br/>
flize oph agane, and you won't see him<br/>
till supper time. Tha are like mum-<br/>
mey's, very euris kritters, and kepe a<br/>
long time spiled. If tha only had<br/>
common sense, so that you could make<br/>
talers or shumakers ov them, thare<br/>
would be some sense ov having the<br/>
breed more plenty; but one or two is<br/>
all that is profitable to have on hand<br/>
tew onst, and tha are enough to kepe<br/>
enny body uneasy about what tha are<br/>
tew dew next. They live about 40<br/>
yeres ahed of the times, and when the<br/>
world ketches up with the best one, an-<br/>
other is born, who spends most ov<br/>
his time in digging up the old bones<br/>
that the last one has buried. The <br/>
most unfortunate thing about having<br/>
a big genius on hand, is that so ma-<br/>
ny try to imitate them, but they don't<br/>
generally get any farther up than their<br/>
vices, and thus one big genius suck-<br/>
les a thousand phools. Tha don't gen-<br/>
erally live happy bekause tha ain't<br/>
built right to fit things as tha find<br/>
them. Tha ought to have grate place<br/>
tew stop in, where thare ain't nothing<br/>
generallyrs to dew, and whare tha kan<br/>
play tost and ketch with the stars, and<br/>
krack butternuts and mountains. Tha<br/>
are curious critters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tha ain't afraid to straddle a hurry-<br/>
kane without enny bridle on, and stuck<br/>
in the spurs, but a nice ribbon in the<br/>
wanescot will drive them bareheaded<br/>
into the street. They can plant, but<br/>
they won't cultivate nor reap.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If I was a woman, I would as soon<br/>
marry a porcupine as a big genius;<br/>
tha are either as hot as the stove in the<br/>
districkt skule house, or as cold and<br/>
unfeeling as the shoes on a dead om-<br/>
nibus horse. A genius is like a big<br/>
comet, that appears once about so of-<br/>
ten and makes every body nervis, and I<br/>
then disappears, and though we may<br/>
not at the time be able to put our fin-<br/>
gers on the indiwidual good that have<br/>
dunn us, still thare visit is a big one,<br/>
and the grate reseryoyrs are pumped<br/>
up fuller, and we pour none, the rest<br/>
ov us, when we stick in our little<br/>
fountains, find that the waters have<br/>
been frothened and sweetened by sum-<br/>
body.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES.—-The President<br/>
has delivered his Message, which is<br/>
calm and moderate in tone. The con-<br/>
duct of England during the war is<br/>
complained of, but he "does not ad-<br/>
vise any present attempt at redress<br/>
by the Legislature." The report of<br/>
the Secretary of the Treasury favours<br/>
the repeal of the Legal Tender Act at<br/>
the earliest possible moment. The<br/>
expenditure for the year ending June<br/>
next will exceed the receipts by $112,<br/>
000,000; but in June 1867 there will<br/>
be a surplus of $11,000,000. No rep-<br/>
resentative of Southern States had yet<br/>
been allowed to take his seat in Con-<br/>
gress. Mr. Hoffman, a Democrat, has<br/>
been elected Mayor of New York. <br/>
Fears are still entertained of a servile<br/>
war in the South.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—It was a good idea which one of<br/>
our city ministers presented last Sau-<br/>
day evening in an address on the train-<br/>
ing of children. “I think it well to<br/>
prejudice my garden in favor of violets<br/>
and roses, or corn and wheat, if I<br/>
would keep out the weeds.” —-N. Y.<br/>
Paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The following lines are inscribed<br/>
on a board near a watering place in<br/>
Vermont:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}'Temperance fountain good as can be<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Better far than rum or brandy;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}If this truth excite your fury,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Let your horse be judge and jury.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
February 15th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Answer.
To Advocate of Buddhism.
Continued from Feb 8th.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As our Buddhist combatant is cer-<br/>
tainly a most remarkable man, so the<br/>
religion he advocates is the most re-<br/>
markable and unique we have ever<br/>
heard of. It is so from the fact that it<br/>
is a trinity not of three persons in one<br/>
god-head, but of three religions—din-<br/>
metrical opposites, in one Buddhism.<br/>
In other words, according to his most<br/>
accredited advocate now standing be-<br/>
fore us clothed with all the power of<br/>
church and state, New School Budd-<br/>
hism is sustained by three pillars.<br/>
The first and chief is her own inherent<br/>
worth; the second is Brahminism;<br/>
and the third Mohamedanism. Did<br/>
any one ever hear of another such<br/>
amalgamation? Why, we would ask<br/>
our enemy of the Bible, does Budd-<br/>
hism thus lean upon props out of her-<br/>
self if she be indeed founded on truth,<br/>
and is stable as he would fain have all<br/>
believe he thinks her to be? We be-<br/>
lieve in the adage "that union is<br/>
strength." But we have ever before<br/>
thought it indispensible that in such<br/>
cases the union be complete while it<br/>
professes to be a union. And we have<br/>
never before heard that several distinct<br/>
religions, naturally at total variance<br/>
with each other, could be so united as<br/>
to form one mighty unity, and yet<br/>
each maintain her own identity, and<br/>
independent sovereignty. There was,<br/>
it is true, something quite analogous<br/>
to this in the late confederacy, in re-<br/>
gard to her civil relations to the United<br/>
States of Am. And as in that case the<br/>
abnormal union, having the principle<br/>
of independent sovereignty continually<br/>
drawing it asunder, was found to<br/>
create only weakness, leading to a<br/>
speedy overthrow, so we apprehend it<br/>
will turn out to be with this modern<br/>
Buddhism not many years hence. We<br/>
conceive Brahminism and Mohamed-<br/>
anism to be used by the kings of Siam<br/>
much as props are employed often-<br/>
times to keep old buildings from tumb-<br/>
ling over, and they seem not to have ever<br/>
dreamed that these props are themselves<br/>
rotting down—hastening to the time<br/>
when they will all fall together.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our antagonist, it seems to us, has<br/>
made a wonderful concession in saying,<br/>
as he does, that "the teachers and<br/>
leaders of the Buddhist religion are<br/>
as yet very ignorant." If this be true<br/>
(and who can doubt it when such a<br/>
man admits it, and when every obser-<br/>
ver sees it) does it not prove that<br/>
the religion they hold and teach is not<br/>
one of light and knowledge, but con-<br/>
trariwise darkness and superstition?<br/>
Do not such follies as that of the<br/>
Yaks swallowing the sun and moon,<br/>
and thus causing eclipses, grow legiti-<br/>
mately out of their sacred books?<br/>
Have not those books, even such as<br/>
are regarded as the most canonical,<br/>
always fostered in the minds of their<br/>
followers a love of teaching full of<br/>
that which is not only without any<br/>
evidence of truthfulness, but positive-<br/>
ly absurd?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While our friend of Buddhism does<br/>
not affirm that His Majesty the king<br/>
of Siam either holds or rejects the<br/>
common Buddhist notions of the eclip-<br/>
ses, yet he does positively give us to un-<br/>
derstand, that the king has no confi-<br/>
dence in the notion that the Yak Ra-<br/>
hoo has any thing to do in causing<br/>
them, and that he knows well what<br/>
are the causes, and how to calculate<br/>
for them. We are right glad to know<br/>
that the present illustrious king of<br/>
Siam has so much loosened the shack-<br/>
les of Buddhism in which he was<br/>
born as to have felt an irrepressible<br/>
desire for intellectual expansion, and<br/>
that the great knowledge he has conse-<br/>
quently acquired has made him by far<br/>
the most illustrious Siamese king that<br/>
has ever lived. But it is certainly<br/>
most preposterous for our champion<br/>
to intimate, as he does, that the king<br/>
has obtained this distinction by virtue<br/>
of his strict Buddhistical principles.<br/>
As well might he affirm that dark-<br/>
ness produces light, or ignorance and<br/>
superstition knowledge and sound<br/>
wisdom. Pray, where did the king<br/>
acquire his knowledge of astronomy<br/>
for which his people are so proud of<br/>
him and he so vain of himself? Did he<br/>
get it by studying any books or follow-<br/>
ing any teachers that originated in<br/>
Buddhist countries, or even among the<br/>
Brahmins or Mohamedans? Will he<br/>
dare to dispute the fact that all his<br/>
extraordinary knowledge of astronomy<br/>
as well as of other sciences originated<br/>
in christian countries and were<br/>
taught him by men who had been edu-<br/>
cated in christian schools? Who was<br/>
his most faithful, and longest continued,<br/>
and beloved teacher but the late Rev.<br/>
Jesse Caswell a Protestant Missionary,<br/>
whose tomb he has delighted to honor,<br/>
and upon whose widow and children<br/>
he has twice bestowed princely dona-<br/>
tions?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We feel that we cannot better close<br/>
this review than in the very words of<br/>
our Buddhist advocate with which<br/>
he opened his batteries on the Bible.<br/>
And in doing so we are assured that<br/>
we have possession of his guns and can<br/>
now turn them upon him with vastly<br/>
more power than he used them upon<br/>
us. "These words sound very strangely<br/>
to the ear. Are they words written<br/>
in earnest or in sport? Are they for<br/>
adults or are they designed only for<br/>
children to hear?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr Editor,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How unconscious soever we may<br/>
be of the fact, we are evidently mov-<br/>
ing; we are undergoing a change. Our<br/>
floating, babel city is in a transition<br/>
state. Whilst we are apparently fixed<br/>
in reference to each other, still like<br/>
some stars of greater magnitude we<br/>
are all moving toward some other cen-<br/>
tre. Whither we are tending, how we<br/>
are moving, and by what motive power,<br/>
may not perhaps be so easily deter-<br/>
mined. In nothing is this changing<br/>
process more evident, than in us<br/>
“farangs” ourselves. In many things<br/>
the “first run” is always the best: but<br/>
the law will not hold good in every<br/>
thing. When a new place opens up<br/>
with fair prospects for trade, the<br/>
“first run” of those who repair thi-<br/>
ther, is generally the worst. After-<br/>
wards the more reliable, industrious,<br/>
and moral classes come in. It is a<br/>
proverbial saying, that eight or ten<br/>
years ago a sober European in this<br/>
place after dinner, say 9 o’clock P. M.,<br/>
would have, been a curiosity. This<br/>
however must be taken with some<br/>
honorable exceptions, for you Mr.<br/>
Editor; were here ten years ago, and<br/>
it is not for a moment to be supposed<br/>
that you are to be included in that<br/>
number. But even were the saying<br/>
to be applied now, it is to be feared<br/>
that it would be fraught with “more<br/>
truth than poetry.” We were struck<br/>
with a remark, which we over-heard<br/>
a well known citizen here make a few<br/>
days since. A new comer made a<br/>
remark which we did not fully under-<br/>
stand, but took it to be rather dispa-<br/>
raging of the place. The citizen in<br/>
question remarked that he knew of no<br/>
better place than this. He had known<br/>
men here who had not done a stroke<br/>
of work or business for the last three<br/>
years, and still were able to be “drunk”<br/>
every day, and “and what better place<br/>
would a man want than that.” We<br/>
contend however that the place has<br/>
been changing for the better for some<br/>
time, and that the change is still pro-<br/>
gressing, although we may be, to some<br/>
degree, unconscious of it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whilst the change may not be as visi-<br/>
ble, or as rapid as could be desired, still<br/>
it will eventually manifest itself more<br/>
fully. Society, too, is changing. Some<br/>
may contend that the change is not<br/>
for the better, and in some respects,<br/>
with some show of plausibility. But<br/>
an unmistakable evidence of the change<br/>
for the better is, quite an accession of<br/>
ladies to that society. Ladies have<br/>
always a benign influence upon society.<br/>
Mothers, wives, and daughters have a<br/>
restraining, mollifying effect upon the<br/>
sterner sex. True, they sometimes<br/>
bring with them their gayeties, and<br/>
fashionable tendencies, which are more<br/>
than is meet. And even those from<br/>
whom we have reason to expect much,<br/>
sometimes lack the stamina necessary<br/>
to battle with fashionable error, still<br/>
as a whole the influence of female<br/>
society is elevating in its tendency.<br/>
The more accessions of the kind to a<br/>
new place the better.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The native portion of the place is<br/>
also undergoing a change. Many of<br/>
them are growing in wealth. Some of<br/>
them are unconsciously becoming<br/>
more European in their tastes. It is<br/>
to be regretted, however, that they are<br/>
more ready to imitate the vices, than<br/>
the virtues of Europeans. Much bu-<br/>
siness, too, is now done by natives.<br/>
Foremost among the native business<br/>
population are a number of enterpris-<br/>
ing Chinamen. Every now and then<br/>
a new Chow Sua opens out. As an<br/>
evidence of the increase of wealth<br/>
we see new residences going up all<br/>
over the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Most of these residences are Chinese<br/>
and are in themselves a village. Some<br/>
of them, too, are models of neatness in<br/>
appearance. Among those most im-<br/>
posing is that of Poh Yim, well known<br/>
to all Europeans. There are many<br/>
things about it however, which a Eu-<br/>
ropean taste would change. It would<br/>
not have cook houses and servant's<br/>
dens in front through which every<br/>
one must pass in going into the main<br/>
building. A European would have<br/>
cook houses, servants houses and all<br/>
the etes in the rear, and present a<br/>
clean front to the river. He would<br/>
also pay more attention to healthy<br/>
ventilation. For want of proper ven-<br/>
tillation the air within a Chinese re-<br/>
sidence, must be continually foul and<br/>
unwholesome. Often-times, too, the<br/>
appearance of fine buildings is des-<br/>
troyed, by mooring dingy floating<br/>
houses in front of them. Some of the<br/>
Siamese noblemen, too, especially those<br/>
who have been to Europe, are putting<br/>
up houses a kind of Siamo-European<br/>
style. Whilst there are many things we<br/>
would suddenly change were we in<br/>
supreme power, still as a whole we<br/>
think they are gradually improving.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Editor;—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am almost sorry you called me out<br/>
again by your query in the issue of<br/>
1st inst. I was thinking that I had<br/>
perhaps made too rash a proposal, and<br/>
felt that if my kindred here were sa-<br/>
tisfied, I was also. But a person who<br/>
is called out in public will certainly<br/>
make a speech, if there is any speech<br/>
in him. Under the circumstances,<br/>
therefore, you will allow me to quote<br/>
the words of one—who in my esti-<br/>
mation—is the greatest general in the<br/>
world—“I propose to fight it out in<br/>
this line.” Although nearly related<br/>
by the ties of kindred, our nationali-<br/>
ties are widely different. As a conse-<br/>
quence our education and tastes are<br/>
separated as widely. Our manners<br/>
and customs too are oftentimes anti-<br/>
podes. All attempts at fusion under<br/>
such circumstances are attended with<br/>
difficulties. Oftentimes, too, it is hard<br/>
to overcome our prejudices. I once<br/>
knew a lady who had a most profound<br/>
antipathy to a gentleman of a differ-<br/>
ent nationality. True, he was not one<br/>
whose conduct and manners were<br/>
calculated to win the good graces of<br/>
many, but the same faults which the<br/>
lady condemned in him most severely<br/>
she overlooked to a great degree in<br/>
those of her own nationality. It is<br/>
therefore oftentimes difficult to per-<br/>
suade ourselves that any good thing<br/>
can come out of Nazareth. Our so-<br/>
cial qualities too are as diverse as our<br/>
nationalities. Some of us, of course,<br/>
are possessed with conversational and<br/>
social powers of a high order—con-<br/>
versational powers capable of turning,<br/>
and twisting a subject, and presenting<br/>
it in all its phases, and of wringing<br/>
the changes upon it ninety nine dif-<br/>
ferent ways, and thus are enabled to<br/>
entertain a company for hours upon<br/>
very small capital. Others of us again<br/>
are “slow of speech” and every word<br/>
has apparently to be pumped out by a<br/>
kind of suction principle. A high or-<br/>
der of conversational powers is certainly<br/>
an endowment very much to be en-<br/>
vied. It does not follow, however,<br/>
that the most inveterate talkers are<br/>
possessed of the highest order of in-<br/>
tellect, and have their minds best<br/>
stored with knowledge and “ vice<br/>
versa.” Indeed the “vice versa” in a cer-<br/>
tain sense holds true, for as a general<br/>
thing the greatest talkers are the most<br/>
superficial in their attainments. The<br/>
empty barrel makes the loudest noise,<br/>
and the flow is not in proportion to<br/>
the quantity contained, but in propor-<br/>
tion to the size of the bung hole.<br/>
Some of the cleverest writers have<br/>
been the merest blocks in social socie-<br/>
ty, among whom, if I mistake not, was<br/>
Byron. One of the brightest scholars,<br/>
most profound thinkers, and most<br/>
powerful and impressive orators, who<br/>
now adorns the pulpits of the Ameri-<br/>
can churches, when in a social gather-<br/>
ing invariably seeks a corner, and<br/>
keeps it until the company disperses.<br/>
When a young man, he once walked<br/>
home with a lady a distance of several<br/>
squares, without exchanging words.<br/>
The lady, however, although much his<br/>
junior, and belonging to one of the<br/>
wealthiest, and best families of the<br/>
city, afterwards married that same<br/>
gentleman in direct opposition to the<br/>
will of her father. She was certainly<br/>
not attracted by his conversational<br/>
powers; but saw the jewel within,<br/>
and did not fail to appreciate it.<br/>
Garrulity does not necessarily indi-<br/>
cate a paragon of wisdom, nor is taci-<br/>
turnity a sign of a block-head. We<br/>
must bear with each other in this res-<br/>
pect even if some of us have to be<br/>
pumped. When it does come it is<br/>
generally a good article. The deepest<br/>
wells usually afford the coolest and<br/>
best water. Nor is a want of ease or<br/>
gracefulness in social society by any<br/>
means an indication of plebeian origin.<br/>
True a constant mingling in society has<br/>
a tendency to improve the manners of<br/>
most persons, but some are naturally<br/>
averse to society, and all the use in the<br/>
world will not rub it off. A man so<br/>
constituted is not to be set down as a<br/>
boor, and excluded from those privi-<br/>
leges which his character, and educa-<br/>
tion justly demand. The customs of<br/>
the countries too, which we represent<br/>
differ vastly in regard to what consti-<br/>
tutes the "sine qua non" for good stand-<br/>
ing in society. A man who perhaps<br/>
would stand well in his own country,<br/>
might not be assigned the same posi-<br/>
tion among his cousins the Britons.<br/>
For instance, a farmer stands well<br/>
among his friends in the United States,<br/>
—-all things being equal, whilst in some<br/>
other countries it might be quite dif-<br/>
ferent. There he is lord of the soil,<br/>
-—he is nature's nobleman; —he is in-<br/>
dependence personified. From the<br/>
farming community are taken the le-<br/>
gislators, governors, and presidents,<br/>
and very good ones they generally<br/>
make. In a place like this therefore,<br/>
where all have equal rights, no one<br/>
should attempt to assign to his cousin of<br/>
another nationality, his place in socio-<br/>
ty. If he is a modest man, and pos-<br/>
sessed of good common sense, he<br/>
might prefer to take a lower place<br/>
than that which justly belongs to him,<br/>
whilst at the same time he might not<br/>
be willing to brook the idea, of hav-<br/>
ing that place assigned him by any<br/>
one else.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scarcely any thing is more difficult<br/>
than to get up amusements in which<br/>
we can all join. So diverse is our<br/>
tastes that this is an Herculean task.<br/>
That to which the tastes of the ma-<br/>
jority run is dancing; still there are<br/>
some, —perhaps a minority who can-<br/>
not conscientiously engage in that, or<br/>
even favor it with their presence.<br/>
But some will say why not? There<br/>
certainly is no sin in dancing. That de-<br/>
pends wholly upon circumstances. It<br/>
is one of those things which is not<br/>
"malum in se." The evil is all in<br/>
its tendencies. The per se argument<br/>
is all fol-der-al. There is scarcely any<br/>
thing, short of a positive violation of<br/>
the moral law, that is an evil in itself.<br/>
I can take a dance in a certain com-<br/>
pany, or a glass of wine, or hold<br/>
slaves, without committing any sin.<br/>
But I hold, that promiscuous dancing<br/>
is immoral in its tendencies, and I can<br/>
not therefore conscientiously encourage<br/>
it. But some may say why not go<br/>
and look on? But I may just as well<br/>
dance as look on. I encourage it just<br/>
as much by my presence as if I act-<br/>
ually fling the "light fantastic toe."<br/>
I also encourage it just as much by<br/>
my presence once in six months, as<br/>
if I were present on every occasion.<br/>
I have great confidence in the exam-<br/>
ple of Paul in such matters. "Where-<br/>
fore if meat make my brother to of-<br/>
fend, I will eat no flesh while the<br/>
world standeth, lest I make my bro-<br/>
ther to offend." But a truce to this<br/>
I had no intention of getting up a<br/>
quarrel with my friends upon this<br/>
subject nor do I suppose that any-<br/>
thing I may say will change the opin-<br/>
ions of many on the subject, how<br/>
much soever I might wish to do so.<br/>
All I can do therefore is to let those<br/>
dance who wish to do so. But what<br/>
I contend for is this, that there<br/>
might be some amusement found in<br/>
which all could conscientiously engage.<br/>
By that means we might have a meet-<br/>
ing occasionally which the whole fa-<br/>
mily could attend. Such a meeting might<br/>
have a salutary effect. But I have<br/>
already transgressed on your patience<br/>
—-so I shall bid you good night.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PENELOPE BROWN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that His Majesty the king,<br/>
has recently sent, or is about to send<br/>
an expedition by the land route to<br/>
Oxaooa, for the purpose of taking pat-<br/>
terns of the famous Buddhist Teupple<br/>
there in ruins, with the ulterior view of<br/>
erecting one after the same model<br/>
and nearly of the same proportions in<br/>
this city. We are informed that the<br/>
king has sent architects, designers, car-<br/>
penters, masons etc. to make a thorough<br/>
and successful work of it. It has been<br/>
reported that His Majesty some years<br/>
since dispatched men to Oxocox with<br/>
the view to bring away from that Tem-<br/>
ple many of the most interesting curi-<br/>
osities to be found connected with it,<br/>
and that the expedition failed. It is<br/>
even surmised by some, that the king<br/>
does not relish well the idea that there<br/>
was a time, many hundreds of years<br/>
since, when believers in Buddhism were<br/>
far ahead of any living Buddhist in<br/>
the arts and sciences now, thus seeming<br/>
but too plainly to show, that the Bud-<br/>
dhist religion has in herself no principle<br/>
of improvement, and that without the<br/>
powerful aid of government, and other<br/>
exterior props, she invariably falls to<br/>
ruin. But should he succeed in creating<br/>
another Ongcor in the locality of<br/>
Bangkok, and one equal in style and<br/>
splendor with the original, how would<br/>
that at all disprove the patent fact that<br/>
Buddhism is on the decline of ages<br/>
simply for the utter want of the light<br/>
and love of the Bible? The reproduct-<br/>
ing of the exquisitely refined architect-<br/>
ture of Oxocor, in that case, could<br/>
not be ascribed to any inherent prin-<br/>
ciple in Buddhism, but wholly to the<br/>
aid of the arts and sciences borrowed,<br/>
as it were, from Christian lands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is too late for the king of Siam to<br/>
think of staying the decline of Bud-<br/>
dhism. She is in her dotage and must<br/>
soon die. As it was in vain for Alex-<br/>
ander the Great to attempt to rebuild<br/>
Babylon, so will it be for P'rabat<br/>
Somdetch P'ra-chom-klow Chow-yu-<br/>
hua, to attempt to rebuild Oxocoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is fervently to be hoped that His<br/>
Majesty the king will not allow the<br/>
ruins of Oxocor to be so disturbed by<br/>
rude and ignorant hands as to destroy<br/>
the pleasing possibility of learned men<br/>
reading, in due time, to a waiting world<br/>
volumes of most interesting ancient<br/>
history from them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Mr. J. Thomson the<br/>
celebrated photographer was, on the<br/>
9th inst, at Kabin pressing on for<br/>
Ongcor, and that he and his traveling<br/>
companion, H. G. Kennedy Student<br/>
interpreter to the British Consulate,<br/>
were quite well. They were expect-<br/>
ing to reach their destination about<br/>
the 20th inst. Mr. Thomson will have<br/>
a grand field for the exercise of his<br/>
skill in the fine art of Photography,<br/>
and we trust will give a new and power-<br/>
ful impetus to the researches that have<br/>
already been made at Ongcor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese steamer "Arrow" ar-<br/>
rived from Petchaburee on the even-<br/>
ing of the 13th inst, bringing as pas-<br/>
sengers Rev. Wm. Dean D. D. and his<br/>
wife. This steamer is owned by the<br/>
enterprising deputy governor of Pet-<br/>
chaburee who is ever wide awake for<br/>
improvements. By the means of this<br/>
little vessel he has made a good be-<br/>
ginning in lessening the distance of<br/>
that beautiful city from Bangkok. It<br/>
is to be hoped he will be seconded by<br/>
the government, and the improvements<br/>
go forward until lightning speed shall<br/>
be given to the communications be-<br/>
tween the two cities.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that the Siamese Iron<br/>
steamer "Siam," Capt. Bragg, will pro-<br/>
bably sail on next Saturday for Sings-<br/>
pore, and that she will proceed thence<br/>
to Penang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A company of five European miners,<br/>
we learn, are to leave Bangkok this<br/>
evening for P'itsanõolüke. Their<br/>
names are Thomas Rock, J. W. Smith,<br/>
R. Haxton, J. Bilby and J. Britian.<br/>
They take a good passport from the<br/>
Prime Minister of the Northern div-<br/>
ision, promising them all the assistance<br/>
they can reasonably ask. There are<br/>
no natives to accompany them. Their<br/>
rowing and cooking by the way is all<br/>
to be done by themselves. They ex-<br/>
pect to be full 20 days pulling up to<br/>
the gold mines, which are said to be<br/>
more than a thousand years old.<br/>
Mr. Rock visited the mines last year,<br/>
and is now the leader of the new ex-<br/>
pedition. He says the country in<br/>
that region is most beautiful and grand,<br/>
and the climate good. It is the inten-<br/>
tion of the party to remain there until<br/>
the next wet season, and then to<br/>
return to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese barque "Diamond<br/>
City" arrived in port on the 13th inst<br/>
and reports, that in the Chinese Sea<br/>
she was boarded by Pirates, and robbed<br/>
of about $10,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passenger per "Amoy." Mr. Neu-<br/>
bronner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passenger per "Coral Nymph." Mr.<br/>
Correa.<br/>
As we were passing up the river this<br/>
morning, on the eastern side, near the<br/>
front of the palace of the king, we<br/>
were suddenly ordered to back down<br/>
to a certain guard boat, and cross over<br/>
to the other side, if we would pass up<br/>
the stream. We enquired the reason<br/>
of such a peremptory command. The<br/>
little Siamese dignitary would not<br/>
deign to tell us. He felt that he was<br/>
clothed with power to forbid us, and<br/>
that was all his pride and insolence<br/>
would have to do with us. It was<br/>
galling to be so treated, but we judged<br/>
it best to submit quietly, not being able<br/>
to get a word of explanation, until<br/>
we reached home, when our Siamese<br/>
writer informed us that His Majesty<br/>
the king had come down to his seat<br/>
at the royal landing to feed the Bud-<br/>
dhists priests, on this the 2nd day of<br/>
the Chinese New-Year-hollidays-—and <br/>
that he did the same yesterday, and<br/>
will do so again to-morrow. Hence<br/>
all that would pass up and down the<br/>
river, while the king is there, must pass.<br/>
at the distance of 100 yards, or more<br/>
from the royal landing.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Curiosities of Eating.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An old bean, formerly well known<br/>
in Washington City, was accustomed<br/>
to eat but one meal in twenty-four<br/>
hours; if, after this, he had to go to a<br/>
party, and take a second dinner, he ate<br/>
nothing at all the next day. He died<br/>
at the age of seventy years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lady of culture, refinement, and<br/>
unusual powers of observation and com-<br/>
parison, became a widow. Reduced<br/>
from affluence to poverty, with a large<br/>
family of small children dependent on<br/>
her manual labor for daily food, she made<br/>
a variety of experiments to ascertain<br/>
what articles could be purchased for the<br/>
least money, and would, at the same<br/>
time, "go farthest," by keeping her child-<br/>
ren longest from crying for something<br/>
to eat. She soon discovered, that when<br/>
they ate buckwheat cakes and molasses,<br/>
they were quiet for a longer time than<br/>
after eating any other kind of food.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A distinguished judge of the United<br/>
States District Court observed, that,<br/>
when he took buckwheat cakes for<br/>
breakfast, he could sit on the bench the<br/>
whole day without being uncomfortably<br/>
hungry; if the cakes were omitted, he<br/>
felt obliged to take a lunch about noon.<br/>
—Buckwheat cakes are a universal<br/>
favorite at the winter breakfast table,<br/>
and scientific investigation and analysis<br/>
has shown, that they abound in the<br/>
heat-forming principle, hence nature<br/>
takes away our appetite for them in<br/>
summer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During the Irish famine, when many<br/>
died of hunger, the poor were often<br/>
found spending their last shilling for<br/>
tea, tobacco and spirits. It has also<br/>
been observed in New York, by those<br/>
connected with charitable institutions,<br/>
that when money was paid to the poor<br/>
they often laid out every cent in tea or<br/>
coffee, instead of procuring the more<br/>
substantial food, such as meal, and<br/>
flour and potatoes. On being reproved<br/>
for this apparent extravagance and im-<br/>
providence, the reply in both cases was<br/>
identical; their own observation had<br/>
shown them that a penny's worth of<br/>
tea, or tobacco, or liquor, would keep<br/>
off the sense of hunger longer than a<br/>
penny's worth of anything else. Sci-<br/>
entific men express the idea by saying,<br/>
"Tea, like alcohol, retards the meta-<br/>
morphosis of the tissues," in other<br/>
words, it gives fuel to the flame of life,<br/>
and thus prevents it from consuming<br/>
the fat and flesh of the body.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If a person gets into the habit of<br/>
taking lunch between breakfast and<br/>
dinner, he will very soon find himself<br/>
getting faint about the regular luncheon<br/>
time; but let him be so pressed with<br/>
important engagements for several days<br/>
in succession as to take nothing between<br/>
meals, it will not be long before he can<br/>
dispense with his lunch altogether.—<br/>
These things seem to show that, to a<br/>
certain extent, eating often is a mere<br/>
matter of habit. Whole tribes of Indian<br/>
hunters and trappers have been known<br/>
to eat but once in twenty-four hours<br/>
and that at night.—-Dr. W.W. Hall.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A long Look Ahead.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A cotemporary turns his visage to the<br/>
future, and in the misty distance of<br/>
two hundred years, sees and describes<br/>
the following:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Scope-—House of a citizen of New<br/>
York.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Time-—A. D. 2,065. A telegraphic<br/>
message has been sent to a servant,<br/>
who presents himself at the window in<br/>
a balloon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Master-—John, go to South America<br/>
and tell Mr. Johnson that I shall be<br/>
happy to have him sup with me this<br/>
evening. Never mind your coat, go<br/>
right away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In five minutes John returns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John-—Mr. Johnson says he will<br/>
come; he is obliged to go to the North<br/>
Pole for a moment, and will call here<br/>
as he comes back.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Master-—Very well, John; now you<br/>
may wind up the machine for setting<br/>
the table, and telegraph to my wife that<br/>
Mr. Johnson will be here presently.<br/>
After that, John, you may dust out<br/>
the balloon-—I have an appointment<br/>
in London at ten o'clock.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
John disappears to execute these or-<br/>
ders, while his master steps down to<br/>
the West Indies to get a fresh orange.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Earnest men.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Enthusiasm is magnetic. Like the<br/>
magic fiddle of little Fritz in the Ger-<br/>
man legend, it fascinates and draws<br/>
after it the crowd. No eloquent en-<br/>
thusiast ever lacked followers, whether<br/>
his creed were right or wrong. The<br/>
earnest man of action, even though a<br/>
very bungler in his rhetoric, is sure<br/>
to have plenty of friends. His deeds<br/>
speak for him. Cromwell's speeches<br/>
were generally unintelligible, but he<br/>
was terribly in earnest both as a fana-<br/>
tic and a soldier. It was impossible to<br/>
doubt the sincerity of his prayers, or<br/>
to misunderstand the logic of his vic-<br/>
tories. Mahomet was a man of vast<br/>
capacity, a great orator, a furious sec-<br/>
tarian, and an honest-hearted hero.<br/>
Such a combination was irresistible,<br/>
and he founded at once a new Empire<br/>
and a new creed. Had the intellect<br/>
of Luther been a more passive type,<br/>
his conquests over error had never been<br/>
achieved. It was the war-like ardor<br/>
with which he challenged and defied<br/>
his antagonists, that enlisted sympa-<br/>
thetic spirits under his banner, and<br/>
made the Reformation a success. To<br/>
come down to latter times-—confid-<br/>
ence in his own destiny was the in-<br/>
spiration of Napoleon, and it was be-<br/>
cause he believed in himself that his<br/>
army believed in him. He thought<br/>
himself irresistible, and so thought<br/>
every man in his hosts, from the mar-<br/>
shals of the empire to the meanest<br/>
followers of the camp. To this de-<br/>
lusion, as much as to his genius, may<br/>
be ascribed the glories of his dazzling<br/>
career.—-Stonewall Jackson-—a man of<br/>
no very extraordinary talent-—was an<br/>
enthusiast whose zeal and fervor were<br/>
worthy of a better cause and a better<br/>
fate. No red cross knight ever shout-<br/>
ed the crusader's shibboleth “God<br/>
wills it!” with more passionate devo-<br/>
tion than he did the war cry of Treason.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has ever been thus, and ever will<br/>
be. Without energy and earnestness,<br/>
nothing that the world will remember<br/>
can be accomplished. They often<br/>
save a bad cause from defeat, and al-<br/>
most invariably secure the ultimate<br/>
triumph of a good one. In the field,<br/>
the forum, and the pulpit, in art, science,<br/>
literature and love, they are alike in-<br/>
dispensable to success. “Whatever<br/>
thy hand findeth to do, do it with all<br/>
thy might,” is a glorious precept.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Social Problem Solved.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Oberlin claims to have solved the<br/>
great problem of the times—what is<br/>
to be done with the colored people.<br/>
For a whole generation they have en-<br/>
joyed equal rights and privileges in<br/>
all departments of that institution<br/>
About one-twentieth of the graduates<br/>
have been colored. They have, with-<br/>
out offense, always sat side by side<br/>
with whites in the classes, the lecture-<br/>
rooms, and the public assemblies. The<br/>
teachers assure me, that they have<br/>
found no difference in abilities indi-<br/>
cated by complexion. Many of the<br/>
oppressed race have found a refuge in<br/>
the place. They labor at all employ-<br/>
ments with the whites—are blacksmiths,<br/>
masons, carpenters, and business men.<br/>
There is a colored lawyer in Oberlin,<br/>
an able man in his profession, who is<br/>
perhaps oftener consulted by whites<br/>
than any other lawyer. A colored<br/>
blacksmith has educated five of his<br/>
children, supporting them all through<br/>
college by his own labors at the anvil.<br/>
One of the lady graduates this year<br/>
from the college is a mulatto, born a<br/>
slave, and has been employed part of<br/>
the time teaching in the preparatory<br/>
department, and has proved herself<br/>
one of the most capable and popular<br/>
teachers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A load of forty-nine freed slaves<br/>
from one plantation in North Carolina<br/>
was at one time left there—almost<br/>
dumped down in the streets, and left<br/>
with but little money to take care of<br/>
themselves. They did it so easily and<br/>
noiselessly, that many of the citizens<br/>
never knew of their coming.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now as to the social result.<br/>
For this whole generation of practical<br/>
equality there has never been any<br/>
collision on the one hand, nor on the<br/>
other a single case of inter-marriage<br/>
between the races. Some parties that<br/>
had previously lived as husband and<br/>
wife at the South have formerly ac-<br/>
knowledged the relation after coming<br/>
to Oberlin; but no such marriages<br/>
have originated there. White and co-<br/>
lored young men, and white and colored<br/>
young women, are often seen walking<br/>
together in the streets; but never white<br/>
gentlemen and colored ladies, or co-<br/>
lored gentlemen and white ladies.<br/>
Practical equality has not promoted<br/>
miscegenation, nor any other evil. The<br/>
nation may hence "take heart and<br/>
banish fear," and give the colored man<br/>
his rights.—-Cor. Congregationalist.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Power of Prayer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In 1821 there was a large family<br/>
residing in C——, a town in Connec-<br/>
ticut, of which several members were<br/>
at that time unconverted. Two of<br/>
the sisters became deeply solicitous<br/>
for the conversion of their father, three<br/>
brothers, and three sisters. They<br/>
agreed, in the month of November,<br/>
to meet every night in a chamber, at<br/>
eight o'clock, to pray together for this<br/>
great blessing, until it should be given.<br/>
Satan seemed, as usual, to understand<br/>
this arrangement, and immediately<br/>
brought in a distracting influence,<br/>
adapted to fill the minds of the young<br/>
with frivolous desires.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the night of a grand ball in<br/>
April, to which the younger sister<br/>
had gone, they were together in that<br/>
chamber from eight o'clock until four<br/>
in the morning, pleading with God.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This daily engagement was still con-<br/>
tinued for three months more, God<br/>
giving, in all this time, no outward<br/>
encouragement. They then became<br/>
more earnest, and remembering that<br/>
“this kind goeth not out but by fast-<br/>
ing and prayer,” one of the sisters set<br/>
apart a day for this purpose, giving<br/>
every thought to this one object. The<br/>
next week these too united in the<br/>
same exercise, and for three successive<br/>
weeks they thus prayed together, with<br/>
fasting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During this month the Spirit came<br/>
in power to convict the younger sister<br/>
of her sins, to such an extent that she<br/>
fearlessly, though a girl of only six-<br/>
teen years, warned her sceptical father,<br/>
all her friends, her brothers, and sisters,<br/>
to flee from the wrath to come.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Then it appeared, from her confes-<br/>
sion, that while these praying ones<br/>
had seen no answer to their supplica-<br/>
tions, at that very ball this girl and<br/>
her intimate friend had such views of<br/>
eternity, and the need of preparation<br/>
for it, that they enjoyed nothing. They<br/>
saw themselves dancing on the brink<br/>
of perdition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As they retired together to rest,<br/>
they said, each to the other, "I will<br/>
never attend another ball."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Others were now awakened; the<br/>
minister appointed a meeting for in-<br/>
quirers; one of the vilest women in<br/>
the town was heard crying in her<br/>
house, in agony, for divine mercy; a<br/>
profane student in the academy was<br/>
converted, and became a preacher of<br/>
righteousness to all around him. The<br/>
sacred influence spread, until the sal-<br/>
vation of the soul became the one<br/>
topic of conversation throughout the<br/>
town. And it is worthy of note that<br/>
the very ball-room in which Satan's<br/>
enginery was employed to oppose the<br/>
work of God, was soon set apart for a<br/>
place of prayer by the consent of the<br/>
proprietor, a decidedly irreligious per-<br/>
son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of these young girls was called<br/>
in one year to experience the reality<br/>
of those celestial joys for which she<br/>
had renounced the world. The other<br/>
has but recently died—a woman of<br/>
uncommon devotedness to Christ,<br/>
mother of a large family, whose in-<br/>
fluence was a rich blessing to the<br/>
whole neighborhood where Providence<br/>
had fixed her residence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The revival continued for a year,<br/>
affecting the whole town, resulting in<br/>
the conversion of more than a hundred;<br/>
making the next winter a perfect con-<br/>
trast with the former in the moral tone<br/>
of the village.—-N. Y. Independent.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The higher an ass holds his head<br/>
the plainer we can see his ears
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Better a dog who works,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Than a lion who shirks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Poverty is a bully if you are afraid<br/>
of it, but good natured enough if you<br/>
meet it like a man.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A hair cutting machine has been<br/>
invented in London. They used to<br/>
have one in France; it took the hair<br/>
off clean, head and all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—It is not safe to let things work<br/>
unless you have put them in good work-<br/>
ing order. You must make them<br/>
work right, or they will work wrong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A man who had a scolding wife,<br/>
being asked what he did for a living,<br/>
replied that he kept a hot-house.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Religion is the best armor a man<br/>
can have, but the worst cloak.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Boys are a great deal like Farina<br/>
jelly—just as you mould them they are<br/>
likely to turn out.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A judicious silence is always bet-<br/>
ter than the truth spoken without<br/>
charity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-To show favor to the wicked is<br/>
in fact doing injury to the good
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-A bone of contention should be<br/>
thrown away when there is no longer<br/>
any meat on it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-“There, now!” cried a little girl<br/>
while rummaging a drawer in a bureau,<br/>
“there, now, gran’pa has gone to hea-<br/>
ven without his spectacles.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Died.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this city, on the 5th inst, of chro-<br/>
nic dysentery, Michael Powers, age 20<br/>
years. He was a seaman, formerly con-<br/>
nected with the "Gazelle" but left by<br/>
her in port for medical treatment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this city, at the hospital of Dr.<br/>
J. Campbell R. N. on the 10th inst.<br/>
of acute dysentry, John Richards,<br/>
second engineer of the steamer "Siam",<br/>
age 33 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Besides the foreign shipping men-<br/>
tioned below, there are in port about<br/>
52 sail of Siamese Vessels, variously<br/>
rigged, and of an aggregate tonnage<br/>
of about 18,500 tons.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_12 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r52">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. FEB. 15TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r9d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAMES</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r55">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r54">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FOR</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Cantou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Hemsobt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">790</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r57">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r58">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">Feb.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Marianna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">Ugler</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">192</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r36">
        <p class="r02">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Annam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02">Fre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Hector</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Harlen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">190</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Rantipole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Stiles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">180</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">K. Hong Tye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Jassen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">317</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Brilliant</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Eusirle</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">11</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">New York</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Macuseh</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">535</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Schmidt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">252</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Fortune</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Brightman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Am.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">Yacht</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Race Horse</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Hinson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">557</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Patriot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Stegmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Paragon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Holinguost</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">756</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Trison</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Horn</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">231</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">D. City</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Lubock</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5b">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5c">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Radama</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Mackenzie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">343</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">M. Mildred</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Fine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Finke [.]ear</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5f">
        <p class="r02">Bre</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r60">
        <p class="r02">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r48">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r49">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r02">C. Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r02">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r03">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r63">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r64">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r48">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r49">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r65">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r62">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_3_13 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="ra8">
        <p class="r01"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Vessels Names</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrived</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>Flag &amp; Rig</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r94">
        <p class="r01"><b>Tons</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>Captains</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7e">
        <p class="r01"><b>Where From</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r08">
        <p class="r01"><b>Consignees</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Destination</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r02">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r03">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Nardberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r56">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r95">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r59">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Amazone</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">318</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Bellastedt</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Annam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ann Lacy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">31</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">274</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Wade</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brenna</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Weyhausen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Canton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">309</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Asmorsann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">466</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Catton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">223</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dupuy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Malherby Jullian &amp; co</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Charlotte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ahrens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">130</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kargil</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Cape Hodgetson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Dioscuren</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">300</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Wayner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Dwina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">12</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Russian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">257</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ritter</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Finke Sen.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Fredrik VII.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">29</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">411</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hoyer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">F or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gustav</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">240</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kier</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; co</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Henriette</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">V. Horten</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ino</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">367</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Bannaw</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Isis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Danish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Schultz</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Jacmel Packet</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">105</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Day</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Jasmin</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">French</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ortize</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Malherbe Jullian &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Megerdreck</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kim Guan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">September</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">250</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Cumming</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">D. Maclean &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kusrovie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">374</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gray</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Nacodah</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">Bombay</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kung Mou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Westcott</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chau Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Laura</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Genits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Mary Mildred</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">460</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Fine</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Order</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gilfillan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Borneo Co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">F or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Mienen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">18</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">624</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ballard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">319</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ahlmann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Rantipole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">100</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Stiles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Rudolph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Olrichs</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sophia Amalia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Dutch</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">287</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Overclert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Stella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">262</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Day</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Captain</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Themis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">216</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Bechmermann</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Chau Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Turandot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">408</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Meinert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cobbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">Chau Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Wartburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">4</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">508</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Germer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r97">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Wm. Cundall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">267</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Semple</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r5e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r96">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r61">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Young Greek</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r78">
        <p class="r03">434</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Thompson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r7c">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="ra9">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r74">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Popery is Ireland's foe.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Irishmen are always talking<br/>
about England's being their enemy<br/>
and destroyer. The Methodist says;
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The population of Ireland, which,<br/>
in 1841, was more than 8,000,000,<br/>
was in 1851 only 5,750,000—-less by<br/>
nearly a quarter of a million than it was<br/>
as far back as in 1811. Since the<br/>
latter date, England has about doubled<br/>
her population, and Scotland has very<br/>
nearly doubled hers. Why has Ireland<br/>
not only not advanced, but retrograd-<br/>
ed? In the decade from 1851 to 1861<br/>
every Irish country but one (that of<br/>
Dublin, the resort of foreigners) lost<br/>
in population, and every city and town<br/>
except two, declined. Emigration is<br/>
usually considered a sufficient reason<br/>
for this decline. It is not; but if it<br/>
were, it does not solve the original<br/>
problem, for the question recurs, Why<br/>
this emigration from the most fertile<br/>
portion of the whole kingdom? There<br/>
is more reason for Englishmen to<br/>
emigrate than for Irishmen; but Eng-<br/>
land advances-—Ireland goes down.<br/>
But if emigration diminishes popula-<br/>
tion, it ought, according to the pre-<br/>
cedents of all other countries affected<br/>
by it, to relieve at least want and<br/>
pauperism, by raising wages. Yet we<br/>
are told by this Irish authority that<br/>
in the last four years paupers, reliev-<br/>
ed by the poor law, have greatly in-<br/>
creased; that the land under cultiva-<br/>
tion has decreased; that there are now<br/>
$15,000,000 worth of encumbered es-<br/>
tates for sale in the market; that<br/>
within the last sixteen years the sales<br/>
under the "Encumbered Estates Court"<br/>
have amounted to $100,000,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is but one reason that can be<br/>
logically assigned for this national in-<br/>
effectiveness of Ireland; but one reason<br/>
that is not refuted by the analogy of<br/>
the other sections of the realm, as<br/>
Wales and Scotland-—that reason is<br/>
Popery. Ireland now has about a<br/>
million and a quarter of Protestants<br/>
(and the Irish Protestant is a recog-<br/>
nized superior man all the world over),<br/>
but she has also four and a half millions<br/>
of Papists. There is the real explana-<br/>
tion of her social position—the logical<br/>
solution of her great problem.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Aim above morality. Be not im-<br/>
ply good; be good for something.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The wickedest liar in life is he who lies<br/>
for an object; the greatest liar is he<br/>
who lies without one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Does cheese belong to animate or<br/>
inanimate nature ?
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-08_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FOR SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the Buildings on the<br/>
premises now occupied by the<br/>
undersigned ; adjoining the<br/>
Portuguese Consulate ; consist-<br/>
ing of
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1 Dwelling house 120 by 34 ft. with river front<br/>
1 {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} 70 " 40 " {{< news/indent1 >}} do {{< news/indent1 >}} do <br/>
1 {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} do {{< news/indent2 >}} 48 " 24 " in the rear.<br/>
2 Godowns {{< news/indent2 >}} 100 " 50 " capacity 10,000<br/>
pets. Rice each, together with sundry Out<br/>
houses, sheds, etc. etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For terms of Sale, apply to
F. BLAKE
Bangkok 7th February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he has recently pur-<br/>
chased all the presses and type, together<br/>
with all the typecasting and book-bind-<br/>
ing apparatus formerly belonging to<br/>
the Am. Baptist Mission in this city;<br/>
and having thus reinforced his original<br/>
Printing establishment with 'a great<br/>
increase of power, he hopes to per-<br/>
form a much greater amount of print-<br/>
ing for the Mission and for this business<br/>
community, and to fulfil the desires of<br/>
his patrons with more promptness and<br/>
certainty than before.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA TRADERS.
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed Agent at Bang-<br/>
kok for the above named Insurance<br/>
Company, is now prepared to issue<br/>
policies on Marine Risks upon the usual<br/>
terms, to an extent not exceeding<br/>
$40,000 on first class sailing vessels,<br/>
and $70,000 on steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the usual Brokerage<br/>
of 10 P cent, a further cash return<br/>
of Five per cent upon premium paid,<br/>
will be made to all Insurers with this<br/>
Company. Payment for losses will be<br/>
made whereever an Agency of the<br/>
Company exists, in one month after<br/>
proof of loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
inform the public that the<br/>
Custom Office has been re-<br/>
moved to the premises for-<br/>
merly possessed by Messrs<br/>
John Gunn & Co at Kok-<br/>
kwai
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. CAMPBELL
INSPECTOR of CUSTOMS,
Bangkok Nov. 11th 1865
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_3 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The responsibility of Mr. ST. Crs<br/>
JULIEN in our firm ceased from this<br/>
date, and Mr. J. M. ALLOIN will sign<br/>
by procuration
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RHMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Siam Nov. 1st 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_17 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS<br/>
to inform the Ship owners<br/>
and Agents of Bangkok, that<br/>
he has been appointed Sur-<br/>
veyor to the Register Mari-<br/>
time or International Lloyd's<br/>
and is prepared to grant Cer-<br/>
tificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their<br/>
rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Colonial, Sea and Fire
Insurance Company.
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan, 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_23 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Co. Limited.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 11th Jan. 1866. (t. f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_24 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ADVERTISEMENT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A JUVENILE English school un-<br/>
der the style of "Prince Supra-<br/>
tith's English school" is just open in<br/>
one of the rooms of the first new brick<br/>
building on the right side of the new<br/>
Road ; outside the Palace walls, and<br/>
at the next bridge but one from the<br/>
Iron draw-bridge—TERMS—from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Sinoon Mai, Wat Koke
Siam, 3rd January 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_26 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In ré Estate of C. A. Chilcott deceas-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned having been duly<br/>
appointed administrator of the Estate<br/>
of C. A. Chilcote, late of Bangkok de-<br/>
ceased; all persons having claims upon<br/>
the said estate are hereby requested to<br/>
present the same, with proper vouches,<br/>
without delay. All persons indebted<br/>
to the said estate are called upon to<br/>
make payment of same to<br/>
January 5th 1866. 
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
W. DEAN
Administrator
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
