---
linkTitle: 'March 8th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - March 8th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); March 8th'
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 32
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, March 8th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 9.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klawng Bangkok Yai" It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
local intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yearly in advance{{< news/indent2 >}}$16.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Half Yearly{{< news/indent2 >}}9.00<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Quarterly{{< news/indent2 >}}4.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Extra Copies to Subscribers{{< news/indent2 >}}0.50<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}Non. do{{< news/indent2 >}}$0.45<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First, insertion-ten lines or half a square,<br/>
and under, ONE DOLLAR and each additional<br/>
line, FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertion, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cent, for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE CENTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Standing advertisements as per Con-<br/>
TRACTS.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B. Bradley, Publisher
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EXTRACTS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A Good Hit.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A correspondent of the New York<br/>
Independent, Mr. X., being on a visit<br/>
to New York recently, decided to go<br/>
on Sunday morning to hear the Rev.<br/>
Dr. Chapin. To his regret, on arriv-<br/>
ing at the church, he found not that<br/>
eminent divine, but a stranger who<br/>
preached eloquently from the text,<br/>
"Bat Simon's wife's mother lay sick<br/>
of a fever." X. thought he would go<br/>
to Plymouth Church in the afternoon,<br/>
to hear Mr. Beecher. There he found<br/>
the same stranger in the pulpit, and<br/>
again he listened to the expounding of<br/>
the text. "Bat Simon's wife's mother<br/>
lay sick of a fever." Somewhat vexed<br/>
at his ill success, X. having liberal<br/>
views, went in the evening to Dr.<br/>
Osgood's church. What was his as-<br/>
tonishment at being compelled to<br/>
listen again to the now familiar sermon,<br/>
from the same clergyman. Having<br/>
occasion next morning to cross the<br/>
ferry, X. discovered his next neigh-<br/>
bour to be the strange preacher, with<br/>
his sermon under his arm. "I won-<br/>
der what that ringing can be!" suggested<br/>
the stranger modestly, as a peal of<br/>
bells was heard from the opposite<br/>
shore. "I suspect," returned X. sav-<br/>
agely, eyeing the manuscript, "that<br/>
Simon's wife's mother must be dead.<br/>
I heard in several places yesterday<br/>
that she was very dangerously ill!"<br/>
The rest of the voyage passed without<br/>
incident or conversation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Mouse Power.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A man in Scotland has trained<br/>
a couple of mice, and invented machin-<br/>
ery for enabling them to spin cotton<br/>
yarn. It is so constructed that the<br/>
mouse is enabled to make atonement<br/>
to society for past offences by twisting<br/>
and reeling 100 to 190 threads per day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To complete this, the little pedestrian<br/>
has to run 10¼ miles. This journey<br/>
he performs every day with ease. A<br/>
halfpenny’s worth of oatmeal, he says,<br/>
at 1s. 8d. per peck, serves one of these<br/>
treadmill culprits for five weeks. In<br/>
that time it makes 110 threads per<br/>
day, being an average of 3850 threads<br/>
of 25 inches, which is nearly nine<br/>
lengths of the reel. A penny is paid<br/>
to a woman for every cut in the or-<br/>
dinary way. At this rate a mouse<br/>
earns 9d. every five weeks; which is<br/>
one farthing per day, or 7s. 6d. per<br/>
annum. Take 6d. off for board, and<br/>
1s. for machinery, there will arise 6s.<br/>
clear profit from every mouse yearly!<br/>
The canny Scot is going to make ap-<br/>
plication for the lease of an old empty<br/>
house, 100 feet by 50 feet, and 50 feet<br/>
in height, which will hold ten thou-<br/>
sand mouse-mills, besides sufficient<br/>
room for keepers and some hundreds<br/>
of spectators. Allowing 200l. for<br/>
rent and task-masters, 10,000l. to<br/>
erect machinery, and 500l. for the in-<br/>
terest, there will be left a balance of<br/>
2300l. per annum! Of course, the<br/>
“hundreds of spectators” are likely to<br/>
be also made to pay for their house-<br/>
room, no less than the mice.—-London<br/>
Builder.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The lost Wager.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"There is a Cabman on this stand,"<br/>
said a gentleman at the west-end of<br/>
London, "whom you can't get to<br/>
touch a drop of drink," "I won't be-<br/>
lieve that," said one of the company,<br/>
"I'll lay a wager that I'll make him<br/>
drink a glass of grog" ! The Cabman<br/>
was called, apparently to take a fare,<br/>
The glass of gin was offered him but<br/>
respectfully declined. Dropping a<br/>
sovereign into it, the tempter, said,<br/>
"Drink it off, and the sovereign is<br/>
yours" The Cabman was unmoved.<br/>
A second, a third, and even a fourth<br/>
sovereign was dropped in, but the<br/>
honest driver was firm as ever. "No,"<br/>
said he "if you fill it with gold, I'll<br/>
not drink. I'm a happier, healthier,<br/>
and a wealthier man since I gave up<br/>
the drink. By God's help I'll not<br/>
touch it again."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A sea Captain, when his crew had<br/>
signed the articles called them to-<br/>
gether and said, "Now lads, I have<br/>
a favour to ask, will you allow me to<br/>
be the first to swear on board this<br/>
ship!" all consented, and there was<br/>
not an oath uttered during the voyage!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Beautiful Reply.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A pious Scotch minister, being asked<br/>
by a friend, during his last illness,<br/>
whether he thought himself dying,<br/>
answered, Really, friend, I care not<br/>
whether I am or not, for if I die, I<br/>
shall be with God—-if I live he will<br/>
be with me—-British Workman.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A particular Clergyman.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It does not require a very old per-<br/>
son who has lived in the country, to<br/>
remember the time when instrumental<br/>
music of any kind in a church was<br/>
considered little less than a sacrilege.<br/>
A bass-viol has set many a congrega-<br/>
tion at logger-heads, and the clergymen,<br/>
especially, used to set their faces hard<br/>
against the innovation. We remem-<br/>
ber a clergyman, whose voice and<br/>
warning against the instrument had<br/>
been overruled, who rose to give out<br/>
the morning psalm, with the following<br/>
introductory remarks:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You may fiddle and sing the one<br/>
hundred twenty-fifth psalm!"
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Get Right and Wait.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An American soldier who was dis-<br/>
charged in Mexico, took up his resid-<br/>
ence in California, while that State<br/>
yet belonged to Mexico. On being<br/>
asked why he did not return to his<br/>
own country, he replied, "because my<br/>
country will soon be here." Events<br/>
soon proved the correctness of the sold-<br/>
ier's reasoning, and politicians may<br/>
learn a very useful lesson from the in-<br/>
cident. It is always safe for a man to<br/>
plant himself firmly upon the most<br/>
radical principles, if they be true. How-<br/>
ever impracticable they may seem at<br/>
present, they are, nevertheless, hurry-<br/>
ing along, and with be here by and by.<br/>
The regular politician forgets that we<br/>
live in a progressive world; in fact, he<br/>
forgets every-thing but himself and<br/>
the old landmarks of his party. The<br/>
man who comes squarely up to the<br/>
full recognition of human rights,<br/>
explained by moral law and approved<br/>
by individual conscience, can safely<br/>
afford to wait. The country will come<br/>
to him. It is only by friction that<br/>
brightness and smoothness come, and<br/>
it is because some men hold back, that<br/>
others make a more determined effort<br/>
to go forward—and thus we advance.<br/>
-—Full River Newt.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
People Who Fail.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I confess that increasing years bring<br/>
with them an increasing respect for<br/>
men who do not succeed in life, as<br/>
those words are commonly used.<br/>
Heaven is said to be a place for those<br/>
who have not succeeded upon earth;<br/>
and, it is surely true, celestial graces<br/>
do not best thrive and bloom in the hot<br/>
blaze of worldly prosperity. Ill suc-<br/>
cess some times arises from a supera-<br/>
bundance of qualities in themselves<br/>
good—from a conscience too sensitive,<br/>
a taste too fastidious, a self-forgetfull-<br/>
ness too romantic, a modesty too retir-<br/>
ing. I will not go so far as to say,<br/>
with a living poet, that “the world<br/>
knows nothing of its greatest men,” but<br/>
there are forms of greatness, or at least<br/>
excellence, which “die and make no<br/>
sign,” there are martyrs that miss the<br/>
palm but not the stake, heroes without<br/>
the laurel and conquerors without the<br/>
triumph.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Best Blessing.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following lines are from Sir<br/>
Humphrey Davy's Salmonia:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I envy no quality of the mind or<br/>
intellect in others, be it genius, power,<br/>
wit or fancy; but if I would choose<br/>
what would be most delightful to me,<br/>
I should prefer a religious belief to<br/>
any other blessing; for it makes<br/>
life a discipline of goodness, breathes<br/>
new hopes, varnishes and throws over<br/>
decay and the destructions of existence<br/>
the most gorgeous light; awakens life,<br/>
even in death, and from corruption<br/>
and decay calls up the most delightful<br/>
visions of palms and amaranths, the<br/>
garden of the blest, and security of<br/>
everlasting joys, where the sensualist<br/>
and skeptic view only gloom, decay,<br/>
annihilation and despair.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How to Cure Thieving.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"They have a singular way of pun-<br/>
ishing robbery in China," said a mis-<br/>
sionary, who had just returned from<br/>
the Celestial Empire, to a number of<br/>
friends who had called in to hear his<br/>
account of things in that land of mar-<br/>
vels. "Does it cure the offender of his<br/>
unfortunate propensities?" eagerly in-<br/>
quired a "philanthropist," whose in-<br/>
terest in human beings was in exact<br/>
ratio with their villainousness. "Well,<br/>
replied the missionary, "I never saw<br/>
the punishment inflicted but once.<br/>
I will tell you how it was done, and<br/>
then you can judge for yourself as to its<br/>
reclaiming and converting powers.<br/>
They put the culprit in a large mor-<br/>
tar, and then fired him head foremost<br/>
against a stone wall."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Pretty Preaching.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am tormented with the desire to<br/>
preach better than I can. But I have<br/>
no wish to make fine, pretty sermons.<br/>
Prettiness has its place. I like to<br/>
see a pretty child, and a pretty flower,<br/>
but in a sermon, prettiness is out of<br/>
place. To my ear it would be any-<br/>
thing but commendation should it be<br/>
said to me. "You have given us a<br/>
pretty sermon." If I were upon trial<br/>
for my life, and an advocate should<br/>
amuse the jury with his tropes and<br/>
figures, burying his argument beneath<br/>
a profusion of the flowers of rhetoric,<br/>
I would say to him. "Tut, man.; you<br/>
care more for your vanity than my<br/>
hanging. Put yourself in my place,<br/>
speak in view of the gallows, and you<br/>
will tell your story plainly and earnest-<br/>
ly."-—Robert Hall.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Beautiful Incident.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At a Sabbath School anniversary<br/>
in London, two little girls presented<br/>
themselves to receive the prize, one<br/>
of whom had recited one verse more<br/>
than the other, both having learned<br/>
several thousand verses of Scripture.<br/>
The gentleman who presided inquired,<br/>
“And could you not have learned<br/>
one verse more, and thus have kept up<br/>
with Martha!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Yes, sir,” the blushing child re-<br/>
plied; “but I loved Martha, and kept<br/>
back on purpose.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“And was there any one of all the<br/>
verses you have learned,” again in-<br/>
quired the president, “that taught you<br/>
this lesson?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“There-was, sir,” she answered,<br/>
blushing still more deeply: “In honor<br/>
preferring one another.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Attack of Pirates.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Report of the Siam barque "Diam-<br/>
ond City" which arrived here on the<br/>
13th Feb. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_17 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Left Hong Kong on the 29th Jan.<br/>
at 4 A. M., bound for Bangkok, with a<br/>
stiff breeze from E. N. E. Cut upon get-<br/>
ting under the lee of Hong Kong Island<br/>
it fell calm till near daylight. While<br/>
laying here I observed two junks coun-<br/>
ing out from Hong Kong pulling close<br/>
under the land and soon passed us. I<br/>
asked the Chinese pilot, what kind of<br/>
junks he thought they were; and he<br/>
said they were junks trading to Hai-<br/>
nan.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the breeze sprung up we<br/>
overtook the junks, and the wind blow-<br/>
ing fresh, the pilot's boat could not be<br/>
towed astern: so I let him go, his ser-<br/>
vices not being required any longer.<br/>
When the pilot left he told me to watch<br/>
the two junks to windward, saying<br/>
that one day they could be trading<br/>
junks and the next pirates. I passed<br/>
close to them, meeting an inward<br/>
bound vessel at the time. We kept a<br/>
good watch on all their movements, but<br/>
could not see any thing suspicious a-<br/>
bout them. They had each two or<br/>
three guns on board, and two boats<br/>
on deck: only a few men could be seen<br/>
standing about the deck.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we passed out of the Taitami<br/>
Channel and got clear of the islands,<br/>
I saw other two junks about three<br/>
miles upon our weather bow, of the<br/>
same size and appearance as these we<br/>
had just passed; but thinking they were<br/>
only trading junks I kept on my course<br/>
nearing them fast. To leeward of us<br/>
there were a great number of junks, so<br/>
I had no alternative but to stand on.<br/>
When about half a mile from them,<br/>
I saw on board of one of them a man<br/>
hoisted to the mast head with some-<br/>
thing in his hands, I at once concluded<br/>
it was a stinkpot and that the junks<br/>
were pirates. I kept the vessel off to<br/>
her best sailing point, at the same time<br/>
calling the supercargo and informing<br/>
him about the junks. He said that<br/>
there was neither opium nor money<br/>
on board, only a few chests of silk, and<br/>
he thought it was not possible for us<br/>
to resist or fight them with the few<br/>
firearms and small guns we had—this<br/>
was my own opinion also. Our only<br/>
chance of safety was in outsailing them,<br/>
but I left it to the supercargo to do as<br/>
he liked.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few moments passed when the junks<br/>
bore down upon us and commenced<br/>
firing. The helmsman was wound-<br/>
ed in the hand by a grapeshot, he in-<br/>
stantly left the wheel and went forward,<br/>
when I called for another man to take<br/>
the wheel, I found that every one had<br/>
deserted the deck, and that too, with-<br/>
out squaring the yards, as I had pre-<br/>
viously ordered. No one coming to<br/>
the wheel I took charge of it myself.<br/>
The nearest junk was now on our<br/>
weather quarter and commenced throw-<br/>
ing stinkpots, which fortunately did<br/>
not reach the ship — both junks were<br/>
firing at us now. one with grape — the<br/>
other with muskets. It was now noon<br/>
and the wind had gone down, the ship<br/>
making only three or four knots an<br/>
hour, but even at this rate we were<br/>
sailing faster than the junks. The<br/>
weathermost junk now bore down up-<br/>
on us and came so close that a stink-<br/>
pot thrown from her, fell close by me<br/>
at the wheel. I made the attempt to<br/>
throw it overboard, but when in the<br/>
act of taking it up it exploded and my<br/>
face and hands got pretty well scorch-<br/>
ed. I again took the helm hoping that<br/>
the breeze might freshen and enable<br/>
us to get clear of them. No more<br/>
stinkpots reached us, and the stern-<br/>
most junk's musket balls fell short of<br/>
us. They now got two guns forward<br/>
and recommenced firing with grape-<br/>
shot, at the same time they got out<br/>
their sweeps, about ten on each side.<br/>
At this time a ball grazed my head<br/>
and rendered me unable to steer the<br/>
vessel any longer, and I was forced to<br/>
give up all hope of getting clear of the<br/>
pirates, and being unable to continue<br/>
longer on deck, I left the wheel and<br/>
went below.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About ten minutes after I left the<br/>
deck, the pirates came alongside, and<br/>
took possession of the ship. Two men<br/>
were sent to watch me, and the head-<br/>
man asked me where we had the mon-<br/>
ey and opium stowed? I told him<br/>
that we had none, and also that I had<br/>
no control over the cargo. They now<br/>
went below and commenced searching<br/>
the hold, passing every thing up out<br/>
of the hold they thought of sufficient<br/>
value, to take with them. This went<br/>
on for two hours, when the headman,<br/>
speaking in broken English, ordered<br/>
me to pick out the charts I required<br/>
to go to Bangkok and one of the<br/>
chronometers, saying "that the vessel<br/>
would be well watched during the<br/>
night, and if I attempted to put back to<br/>
Hong Kong, he would board us again<br/>
and destroy the vessel, because he did<br/>
not want it to be reported in Hong<br/>
Kong that the vessel had been plund-<br/>
ered so close to the port."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The pirates now all left the cabin,<br/>
and a short time afterward one of my<br/>
men came to look for me, I sent him<br/>
for some water and asked if any one<br/>
on board had been killed, he said that<br/>
there was none. After pouring some<br/>
water on my hands and face and bath-<br/>
ing the wound in my head I felt a lit-<br/>
tle better and went on deck, when I<br/>
found the ship a complete wreck aloft;<br/>
most of the standing rigging, and near-<br/>
ly all the haulyards were cut. I order-<br/>
ed the Sarang to get them repaired and<br/>
set sail on the ship as soon as possible.<br/>
Wind was easterly, light breeze and<br/>
fine weather.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The supercargo came on deck and<br/>
wanted me to put back either to Hong<br/>
Kong or Macao, I told him that that<br/>
could not be done. At the same time<br/>
I told him what the headman of the<br/>
pirates had said: so he consented that<br/>
we should make the best of our way<br/>
to Bangkok. I hoped to make Cape<br/>
St. James in a few days, and if I felt too<br/>
sick to proceed any further I intended<br/>
to have called there for medical assis-<br/>
tance as I had no medicine on board.<br/>
My eyes began to swell up and for<br/>
four days I could not see, this made<br/>
the navigation of the ship somewhat<br/>
difficult. We had light winds and fine<br/>
weather and we were nine days before<br/>
we passed Saigon, when I found my-<br/>
self so much better that I did not call<br/>
there, but proceeded on to this port<br/>
where we arrived after a passage of<br/>
fourteen days from Hong Kong.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some of the men told me that the<br/>
two junks we had passed inside of the<br/>
island, when coming up to us, sent<br/>
there boats on board, and as they came<br/>
last they took every small little thing<br/>
they could find that was likely to be<br/>
of any use to them, even the salt fish<br/>
which the crew had for provisions for<br/>
the passage was taken by the pirates,<br/>
and the crew had only rice and salt for<br/>
the passage down.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The supercargo told me that the<br/>
pirates had taken silk to the value of<br/>
ten thousand Mexican dollars. They<br/>
also took all our clothes and provisions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I estimate the junks to have been<br/>
manned by about forty men each.<br/>
With such a cowardly crew as ours<br/>
proved themselves to be, and the little<br/>
armament that we had on board, any<br/>
resistance shown on our part would<br/>
have been of no use without a little<br/>
more wind than we had.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
E. LUBECK.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Master.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_1_19 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Report of "Sophia Amalia".
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain P. T. Von Overclift of the<br/>
Dutch barque "Sophia Amalia" re-<br/>
ports that on the 18th Jan. 1866 at 4<br/>
P. M. left Hongkong bound for Bangkok,<br/>
with a fair wind strong breezes—ship<br/>
going 11 knots an hour. At one o'clock<br/>
in the morning of the 19th, I heard a<br/>
crash forward and the voices of men.<br/>
I went forward and found that we had<br/>
run into a Chinese fishing junk belong-<br/>
ing to Macao. We struck her right<br/>
amid ships, one mast being on each<br/>
side of us, and the junk in two peices.<br/>
Twelve men and five women jumped<br/>
on board of us, and we brought them<br/>
on to Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I immediately shortened sail, and<br/>
brought the ship to the wind, and hove<br/>
too, but the sea being heavy and the<br/>
wind strong I was obliged to put the<br/>
ship before the wind again. I saw that<br/>
part of the junk on the port side on<br/>
fire, but I could not go back as the<br/>
ship had shifted her ballast and had<br/>
two feet list. I heard there was five<br/>
men left on board the junk, but as it<br/>
was impossible for me to render any<br/>
assistance, I proceeded on my passage<br/>
to Bangkok, where I arrived in safety.<br/>
I do not know the names of the people<br/>
that were saved.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok Feb 2nd 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
P. T. Von Overcleft.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Master.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
March 8th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Concerning Telegraphs.
and opening Rivers.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following singular government<br/>
document was written it would<br/>
seem in reply to some petition<br/>
that has recently been made to<br/>
government for the privilege of estab-<br/>
lishing a telegraphic line between this<br/>
city and Paknam, and to an article<br/>
among our local items on the 22nd<br/>
ulto.—-concerning the expediency of<br/>
constructing a canal from Maakloung to<br/>
Bangkaboon.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are very sorry to think that the<br/>
Siamese government will treat so great<br/>
and grand a subject as that of the tele-<br/>
graph with such derision and contempt.<br/>
Still we hope and believe that long and<br/>
patient importunity on the part of the<br/>
foreign community on this subject will<br/>
ultimately secure the object. It cannot<br/>
be that Siam is going long to shut out<br/>
the telegraph from all her other im-<br/>
provements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are glad that the government<br/>
is thinking so seriously about the<br/>
noble object of opening the Bar at the<br/>
mouth of this river. The article be-<br/>
low appears, to be an invitation on the<br/>
part of government for foreigners to<br/>
discuss this subject through the col-<br/>
umns of the "Recorder", and we hope<br/>
our business men will feel themselves<br/>
called upon by the government to do<br/>
so. To us the dangers of opening the<br/>
Bar and straightening the Petchabaroe<br/>
river as set forth in that paper ap-<br/>
pear to be quite visionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The publishers of Newspapers are<br/>
repeating the excellencies of telegraph<br/>
lines and urging and pressing for<br/>
their establishment in almost every<br/>
one of their issues. They do it be-<br/>
cause they think their readers will be<br/>
astonished and delighted at the accounts<br/>
they give of them, and will respond<br/>
—Oh! how excellent! There is noth-<br/>
ing that can be compared with these<br/>
telegraphs! Truly they who have<br/>
read their reports are now exclaiming<br/>
Oh! Oh! and their throats have be-<br/>
come dry with this shouting until they<br/>
have become so hoarse that they can<br/>
now scarcely do more than whisper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But to speak truthfully there is al-<br/>
ready a telegraph line in this city.<br/>
And it has been tried. We have men<br/>
who understand it, and have used it.<br/>
It is not a very wonderful thing after<br/>
all. Do not be at the trouble of pub-<br/>
lishing more about the telegraph. We<br/>
have had enough of it. Let these<br/>
few lines be translated into English<br/>
and inserted in the "Recorder."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The matter published in the "Re-<br/>
corder" about making a canal from<br/>
Maaklawng to Bangkaboon and thence<br/>
to Petchaburee is attended with many<br/>
difficulties. If we speak of improv-<br/>
ing old canals that they may be more<br/>
freely navigated, that seems not likely<br/>
to become of very great service to the<br/>
country. There are other far more im-<br/>
portant internal improvements that<br/>
can be made, which it is not likely those<br/>
who speak of improvements have yet<br/>
thought of.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As regards the improving of the<br/>
way to Petchaburee we do not see<br/>
clearly: but can see more clearly the<br/>
improvement that might me made at<br/>
the mouth of the Chow-Phya. At this<br/>
place there is a Bar crossing the mouth<br/>
of the river. Vessels drawing many<br/>
feet of water cannot cross it. This Bar<br/>
is a cause of much trouble, hindrance<br/>
and damage. There are those who<br/>
have proposed to dig the channel deeper<br/>
by a dredging machine, which will<br/>
dig up the sand and cast it out into<br/>
banks, making the channel broad and<br/>
deep like the river, so that there shall<br/>
be nothing to hinder vessels going and<br/>
coming.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the other hand there are those<br/>
who think that the vast rice districts<br/>
of the old city Ayuthia, Lopburee,<br/>
and Angtawng which are favored an-<br/>
nually in the 10th 11th 12th and 1st<br/>
months by flooding, so that the rice<br/>
has sufficient time to be well watered and<br/>
that the water subsides in good time<br/>
for harvests because of the Bar at the<br/>
mouth of the river. It is said that this<br/>
Bar prevents the too rapid subsidence of<br/>
the water from the rice fields—that<br/>
when the water of the sea outside of<br/>
the Bar settles down, the water of the<br/>
river can flow out but slowly—and<br/>
that hence the vast rice fields are<br/>
suitably watered. It is surmised that if<br/>
the channel over the Bar be deepened,<br/>
the sea outside, settling down will oper-<br/>
ate to draw off the water from those rice<br/>
fields so that the water shall not remain<br/>
on them full 3 month; and that if this be<br/>
the case those vast fields in the districts<br/>
of Ayuthia Lopburee and Angtawng<br/>
will be ruined. It is the custom in sea-<br/>
sons when the water is deficient, to<br/>
dam up the canals in the vicinity<br/>
of the rice fields so that the water<br/>
within the dams shall be higher than<br/>
the water outside of them—-sometimes<br/>
to a half a cubit, and sometimes a<br/>
full cubit. When the water within<br/>
the dams are found to be too high the<br/>
dams are opened a little, and the water<br/>
drawn off. Now this business of<br/>
daming up the canals in seasons of too<br/>
little water is a certain advantage<br/>
which cannot be disputed. The Bar<br/>
appears to be only a dam on a large<br/>
scale. If it be opened wide we fear<br/>
that the water from all these fields<br/>
will flow off too quickly. On this<br/>
subject there are many who see with<br/>
us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But as to the Petchaburee river from<br/>
Bangláám up to the entrance of the<br/>
canal Bangk’rok it is very crooked,<br/>
bending to the east and west some 9<br/>
or 10 times, so that it requires more<br/>
than an hour to pass all those bends.<br/>
Now if there were a canal cut straight<br/>
from the north to the south making<br/>
it large and deep it would be only a<br/>
short way requiring not more than<br/>
20 minutes to pass it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The river above Bangk’rok is shallow<br/>
and from the landing of Temple<br/>
Kády Tawng it is quite crooked. If a<br/>
canal should be cut from the back<br/>
side of Temple Kády Tawng and<br/>
on the upper side of it conducting to<br/>
Temple Koon-tra, below temple Noi-<br/>
Nang-móók—making them but shal-<br/>
low, just enough for the water to flow<br/>
into them, and then stop up the old<br/>
channel the current of the water<br/>
would cut a large channel in a short<br/>
time. But should this be done it would<br/>
injure the old homesteads on the old<br/>
channel. The people now live hap-<br/>
pily using the river for their boats<br/>
and rafts. Now if we cut a new chan-<br/>
nel, and shut up the old one it will be a<br/>
great damage to those old settlers. And<br/>
when the new channel shall have<br/>
been finished, and the old channel again<br/>
opened the water would of course<br/>
flow in the straight channel—and the<br/>
old channel would gradually become<br/>
shallow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And again to drive the people thus<br/>
from the banks of the old channel to<br/>
the new one seems hard. Some of them<br/>
would remove and some would not<br/>
because their houses and fields are on<br/>
the old channel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But then again.—-It is the usual re-<br/>
sult of every improvement made, that<br/>
some will be benefited by it and some not<br/>
-—but rather suffer loss. Hence we must<br/>
so manage as to study for such changes<br/>
as will be of profit to the large body<br/>
of the people—-such as will decidedly<br/>
be of great advantage to the country<br/>
as a whole.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now with regard to the Petchabu-<br/>
ree river, when it shall have been<br/>
straightened as proposed above, the ad-<br/>
vantages and disadvantages of it<br/>
will be divided among the inhabitants<br/>
of the place. Possibly the disadvan-<br/>
tages of such a change might be<br/>
greater than the advantages, because<br/>
the bends are not very great, and the<br/>
river in the dry seasons will, any way,<br/>
be unnavigable and those who wish to<br/>
go and come quickly can go by land<br/>
very readily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But to make a short cut of those<br/>
10 bends below Bangk’rok, is very<br/>
tempting, for that part of the country<br/>
is not much settled, the land not be-<br/>
ing of a passable quality. Still when<br/>
we have consulted with many on the<br/>
subject the general fear is, that there<br/>
would be danger that such a change<br/>
would cause the water to flow too<br/>
quickly off from the rice fields; so<br/>
that those fields would be greatly in-<br/>
jured—as the water would not over-<br/>
flow them in the suitable seasons.<br/>
The water of that river is accustomed<br/>
to have its particular seasons for over-<br/>
flowing, and several in a year. If the<br/>
old channel is allowed to remain un-<br/>
changed, the rice fields will remain in<br/>
part good and in part damaged. And<br/>
the inhabitants will, as usual, have<br/>
occasion to grumble only of<br/>
bad fortune. But when the old<br/>
channel shall have been thus changed<br/>
and the damages appear, the peo-<br/>
ple will cast the blame upon him<br/>
who made the change: because the busi-<br/>
ness of growing rice is a great business<br/>
for Siam. Now when we see any<br/>
change proposed that will not inter-<br/>
fere and cross any great business—not<br/>
likely to produce much murmuring<br/>
among the people, we think it suita-<br/>
ble that such changes should be<br/>
tried.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correspondence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To the Editor of the Bangkok
Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SIR,-—Are we ever to get any more<br/>
of the new flat ticals? This question<br/>
may be considered impertinent by<br/>
some, and one lying beyond my<br/>
province; but I am really interested.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I have seen no new ones of the flat<br/>
kind, for some time, and the old bul-<br/>
lets have mostly become so worn by<br/>
use, that it is very difficult to pass<br/>
them. It is as much as many of<br/>
them are worth to get them off your<br/>
hands. In paying a little bill of thirty<br/>
ticals the other day, about one-half<br/>
of them were returned. The man<br/>
said they were good, but very difficult<br/>
to pass, and he inquired at the same<br/>
time why I did not have the new ones.<br/>
Now if we are to use the old ones until<br/>
they are entirely worn out we shall<br/>
have a good time of it. They should<br/>
all be gathered in as soon as possible,<br/>
and new ones distributed in their<br/>
place. Some new salungs and fuangs<br/>
are also needed. There are but few of<br/>
the new kind in circulation. The old<br/>
ones are also scarce, and those that<br/>
are in circulation are also very diffi-<br/>
cult to pass. When a person therefore<br/>
gets any thing less than a tical in<br/>
change he is obliged to be loaded down<br/>
with bad ots.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
INQUIRER.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. EDITOR
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
During a residence in this place<br/>
of more than fifteen years, I have<br/>
not seen a European or an American<br/>
in my house intoxicated by liquor.<br/>
Nor have I known of but one death<br/>
among all the male teetotlers of the<br/>
place during the same time. And I<br/>
am glad to know that the temperance<br/>
principle is so strong among us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is, if I mistake not, a large ma-<br/>
jority of the foreign resident families,<br/>
who never allow any kind of intoxicating<br/>
liquor at their tables-—not even the<br/>
lighter wines. There are some who<br/>
deal out the poisonous drug for gain<br/>
in some parts of our city, forgetting<br/>
the word of God—-"Woe to him that<br/>
giveth his neighbor drink, and putteth<br/>
the bottle to him, and maketh him drunk-<br/>
en." Thus doing, they draw into the<br/>
vortex of ruin some who have not the<br/>
moral courage to resist the tempter. But<br/>
even these might be prevented by a<br/>
suitable effort on the part of those in<br/>
authority residing near them, taking<br/>
advantage of the nuisance law. It is<br/>
an infinite pity that any man for the<br/>
sake of a few cents should give his as-<br/>
sociate, a draft that takes away the<br/>
reason the most precious of Heaven's<br/>
gifts, and leaves him exposed to all<br/>
the fearful consequences of such a<br/>
state. I hope the time is near when<br/>
such a thing will no more be allowed<br/>
than the dealing out of other poisons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours.
SIGMA.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Answer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
To a correspondent.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having waited till the last day of<br/>
grace for some one to answer the query<br/>
of our correspondent concerning Looang<br/>
Oòpâtate Lamache in our issue of the<br/>
22d ulto, we feel that it becomes our duty<br/>
to make some reply ourselves. As he<br/>
seems to be realy and fully restored, we<br/>
presume His Majesty the king has<br/>
seen in him what he regards as suffi-<br/>
cient evidence of genuine repentance<br/>
for the past, and a sincere determina-<br/>
tion to do well in the future, and that<br/>
therefore he has "been allowed to as-<br/>
sume his former rank and position."<br/>
Now while we cannot go the full length<br/>
of President Johnson in his views of<br/>
the pardoning power, we believe it<br/>
right and wise for the Chief Executive<br/>
of any nation or kingdom to pardno,<br/>
such offences as those of Lóoang Oò-<br/>
pâtate Lamache's on good evidence being<br/>
given that the offender is sincerely sor-<br/>
ry tor his faults, and promises to do<br/>
the like no more. It is noble to re-<br/>
repent of wrong doing. It is godlike to<br/>
forgive. We think it just and wise to<br/>
take this view of Lóoang Oòpâtate's<br/>
present position, and shall stand firmly to<br/>
it until compelled by opposing devel-<br/>
opments (which we pray may not oc-<br/>
cur) to abandon it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It has been intimated that, because<br/>
in our Bangkok Calendars we have in-<br/>
variably published Lóoang Oòpâtate<br/>
without his Siamese title, that therefore<br/>
we have intended to dishonor him. We<br/>
beg to explain that matter. The truth<br/>
is we have omitted the title for two<br/>
reasons; first we have not known till<br/>
recently what his title certainly was,<br/>
and secondly, because we really sup-<br/>
posed that we were quite correct in<br/>
styling him Drill Master of H. M's<br/>
troops. Now it turns out that his Si-<br/>
amese title, if we understand it correctly<br/>
means that he is an officer for,<br/>
teaching military tactics tothe king's<br/>
troops: or perhaps more correctly a<br/>
foreign soldier Master, for there is an<br/>
affix to the title not expressed above<br/>
which means a soldier, and that affix is,<br/>
T'ooi han. Hence his whole title would<br/>
read Lóoang - Oöpatate - T'ooi - han.<br/>
This sounds well in Siamese and is in-<br/>
deed quite honorable: still we cannot<br/>
but think that the plain English of it<br/>
is equally so.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now this is a very responsible and<br/>
honorable calling, and we hope that<br/>
neither Lóoang Oöpatate nor his friends<br/>
will any longer entertain the thought<br/>
that we have designedly done anything<br/>
in that line to dishonor him. We<br/>
could not style him, as desired, a General<br/>
commander of the king's forces for we<br/>
have never believed that he was such<br/>
in any sense. We think that he<br/>
would not be sent out by the king as<br/>
General of the royal army in case of<br/>
[?]. As we understand it—A Drill<br/>
Master of the king's troops is one<br/>
thing, and a General or "Commandant"<br/>
of His Majesty's forces is quite an-<br/>
other.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A good number of the European and<br/>
American community of this city had<br/>
the pleasure on Monday last of an<br/>
audience with His Majesty the Supreme<br/>
king at the burning of the remains of<br/>
the sister of H. E. the Prime Minister.<br/>
His majesty's arrival at the place be-<br/>
ing quite late in the p. m.—nearly at sun-<br/>
setting. he had but a few moments that<br/>
he could devote to saluting his foreign<br/>
friends. He however, was pleased to<br/>
give all a gracious bow and spoke kind<br/>
and encouraging words to a few.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty was escorted by a com-<br/>
pany of royal troops neatly uniformed<br/>
and with guns brightly burnished.<br/>
They were gracefully conducted by<br/>
Loöang Oöpâtait Tooï-hân Lamache.<br/>
The royal Brass band with M. E.<br/>
Chabrïe their master at their head led<br/>
the royal escort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Having sat a few moments in the<br/>
royal tabernacle prepared for him<br/>
His Majesty, conscious of the lateness<br/>
of the hour, descended quickly and<br/>
walked some 15 yards to the funeral<br/>
pile and was seated near to it. Pre-<br/>
sently 12 Buddhist priests came with<br/>
each his talapoïn or fan, and sat on<br/>
the floor in a line before His Majesty<br/>
This arrangement required about five<br/>
minutes. His Majesty then taking up<br/>
in both hands a neat bundle of yellow<br/>
robes, and holding it a moment before<br/>
his face as if kissing it, presented it to<br/>
the Head Priest' of that temple. And<br/>
then he took up another suit and did<br/>
likewise to the second priest in order,<br/>
and so on to four or five of them;<br/>
when he commissioned one of his lit-<br/>
tle sons present to go on and finish the<br/>
presentations to all the twelve. Hav-<br/>
ing recieved their new robes, they<br/>
took up their fans, and had some<br/>
Bali rehearsal over them. This being<br/>
finished, His Majesty took a lighted<br/>
wax candle and applied it to the<br/>
pile. A number of his children fol-<br/>
lowed the example, and then H. E.<br/>
the Prime Minister and others. A<br/>
curtain was then drawn to screen some<br/>
what the kindling from public gaze.<br/>
Presently the flame became so great<br/>
that it was removed and in less than<br/>
half an hour there was nothing left of<br/>
the body but ashes and a few of the<br/>
charred bones for preservation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Majesty left the funeral pile as<br/>
soon as he had applied the lighted<br/>
candle to it, and walked back to the<br/>
throne prepared for him. He sat but<br/>
a few moments when he descended<br/>
and sat on the carpet spread on the<br/>
ground, and had a conversation of a<br/>
quarter of an hour or more with his<br/>
chief ministers on government matters.<br/>
At this stage of affairs your reporter left<br/>
as it was getting quite dark.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As usual those funeral ceremonies<br/>
were attended with theatrical perform-<br/>
ances both in the Siamese language<br/>
and the Chinese. They were in full<br/>
blast up to the moment of igniting the<br/>
pile, and the Siamese, if we mistake<br/>
not, did not stop for this service. The<br/>
play actors all became noisy again im-<br/>
mediately after the burning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There was also the sport of throwing<br/>
to the masses limes containing each<br/>
a small coin or gold ring picked from<br/>
an artificial tree.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Caution to Ship Masters.—
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About a fortnight ago a chronometer<br/>
was stolen from the Sch. "Clio" whilst<br/>
the Captain was sleeping on deck. This<br/>
is the fourth chronometer stolen from<br/>
ships in the river and in every instance<br/>
the Captains have been sleeping (as is<br/>
customary in this climate) on deck. The<br/>
"Cadovious," "Fortune," "Bolden<br/>
Lawn" and now the "Clio" have all<br/>
been robbed and, what is the strangest<br/>
thing of all, two if not three were found<br/>
but the thieves have never been punish-<br/>
ed or even brought to justice their<br/>
must be a "screw loose" some where.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New Road.-—A fortnight ago<br/>
His Excellency the Prime Minister and<br/>
other functionaries rode down the new<br/>
road apparently inspecting it. His Ex-<br/>
cellency then paid a visit to the Bang-<br/>
kok Dock Company's new dry Dock.<br/>
From the number of convicts daily<br/>
employed on the new road we may<br/>
infer that His Majesty intends paying<br/>
it another visit. We would earnestly<br/>
suggest that His Majesty would pay<br/>
it two or three visits during the rainy<br/>
season for then there would be some<br/>
chance of riding or even walking from<br/>
one house to another without being<br/>
up to our ankles, and in some places<br/>
a foot higher in mud.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Letter.—-Was received on the<br/>
1st. inst. from Mr. Thomson and party<br/>
who left Bangkok on the 17th January<br/>
for Onger, it was dated from Wat Sin<br/>
Ab, February 8th they had been twelve<br/>
days out and expected to be twelve<br/>
more before reaching their destination.<br/>
They complain of the want of elephants<br/>
which were not procurable although<br/>
many were seen, and were obliged to<br/>
make the journey on ponies and in<br/>
bullock carts. Mr. T. states that they<br/>
have often to sleep in the forest that<br/>
tigers were very plentiful, and that traces<br/>
of them round the encampment were<br/>
plainly visible every morning. They<br/>
had not been attacked, were well armed<br/>
and kept a good look out for all such<br/>
unwelcome visitors.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fire.—-March 6th at 10 A. M. a fire<br/>
broke out at Talat Noi and burned<br/>
with unabated fury for 3 or 4 hours;<br/>
it was only arrested by tearing down<br/>
the houses which is the only way fires<br/>
can be put out in Siam. The fire<br/>
broke out in a Paddy house during the<br/>
absence of the owner, Chet Tew, on<br/>
board of a ship selling rice. There were<br/>
five coolies in the house when it caught<br/>
fire, but the immediate cause of the<br/>
fire is at present unknown. The coolies<br/>
have not yet been arrested. There were<br/>
84 bamboo, 27 plank and 4 brick<br/>
houses burned to the ground they<br/>
belonged to 45 different owners. It<br/>
was surprising to see with what in-<br/>
difference the Chinamen beheld house<br/>
after house burn down without given<br/>
a helping hand to the Police, who<br/>
seemed to be the only men who at-<br/>
tempted to arrest the progress of the<br/>
flames. Perhaps the close proximity<br/>
to their quarters stimulated them to<br/>
extra extortion, for as a "burned child<br/>
dreads the fire" so they having been<br/>
once burned out would scarcely relish a<br/>
repetition of such a fearful calamity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have heard of only one life having<br/>
been lost, that of a Chinaman who was<br/>
burned to death. The usual number of<br/>
half roasted pigs, dogs and poultry was<br/>
running about, men plundering and<br/>
quarreling, others dragging their pro-<br/>
perty through the crowd, added to<br/>
the lamentations of 500 poor name-<br/>
less wretches who appeared completely<br/>
indifferent to every thing, now that<br/>
they had lost their all, contributed<br/>
to make the scenestill more appalling<br/>
and to awaken the pity and sympa-<br/>
thies of every beholder. In many<br/>
places the fire burned all night, and<br/>
when the ashes were cool enough<br/>
the owners of the property returned,<br/>
some to dig for hidden treasures, other<br/>
to pick up old iron, etc and to think<br/>
what was next to be done. We heard<br/>
a friend say that a good fire once a year<br/>
was very servicable, if it was only to<br/>
lick up the filth which is allowed to<br/>
accumulate from year to year, which<br/>
was it not for the annual fires would<br/>
very likely breed cholera. Although<br/>
rather a severe remedy it would be<br/>
better that the whole of Sampeng was<br/>
burned down than such a dire calamity<br/>
should visit Bangkok for it is no re-<br/>
specter of persons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now is the time to improve that<br/>
portion of the bazar, which is barely a<br/>
fathom wide, and what with the usual<br/>
obstructions in the shape of baskets<br/>
&c. it is scarcely three feet wide in<br/>
some places; and the bridges too are<br/>
disgraceful: the one which was burned<br/>
down two years ago has never been<br/>
replaced, thereby making it impossible<br/>
at high tides for Europeans to walk to<br/>
the bazar without going up to the<br/>
knees in water, and the other bridge<br/>
is not safe for such a number of pedes-<br/>
trians who daily use it. A few con-<br/>
victs to sweep the bazar daily, and<br/>
clean the gutters, which are now only<br/>
public necessaries, and are never<br/>
cleaned, would do no harm, but a<br/>
great deal of good; but we fear that<br/>
in this we are only wasting ink and<br/>
paper for “cleanliness is next to god-<br/>
liness” and as the Siamese are very<br/>
far from the latter, we cannot expect for<br/>
many years to come that they will even<br/>
know how to appreciate the former<br/>
much less put it in practice.—We are<br/>
given to understand that the bazar has<br/>
within the knowledge of its oldest in-<br/>
habitant been swept once, and that<br/>
was on the occasion of His Majesty<br/>
being carried through it some months<br/>
ago when he visited Wat Sempeng<br/>
and Wat Kok. His Majesty should<br/>
take a quite strole with us sometimes<br/>
if he wishes to see it in all its glory.<br/>
Towards evening His Excellency the<br/>
Prime Minister visited the scene of the<br/>
late conflagration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Samuel J. Smith and Mrs. Smith<br/>
are to leave, as we are informed, on the<br/>
-morrow for a missionary tour to Maa-<br/>
klawng, Bang Chang, and perhaps to<br/>
Petchaburee.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese government has ex-<br/>
pressed to us a good degree of satis-<br/>
faction in the course we took regarding<br/>
the publishing of reports of evil-doers<br/>
as appeared in our issues in the Siamese<br/>
and English last week.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By late intelligence from Petchabu-<br/>
ree we learn that the Missionaries and<br/>
their families in that city were quite<br/>
well, being cheered with some new<br/>
hopes of success in their work, es-<br/>
pecially among the Laos in that vicin-<br/>
ity
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the Str. “Chow Phya” we have<br/>
received the usual European and A-<br/>
merican mails: but as “The Recorder”<br/>
was just going to press when the steamer<br/>
arrived, no late news has been inserted<br/>
in this issue.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per “Chow Phya” Mrs.<br/>
Bateman and Mr. Hewetson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few days ago the cabin of the<br/>
British Schooner “Rantipole” was en-<br/>
tered by some person unknown and the<br/>
Captain’s gold watch and chain and<br/>
Free-masons medel was stolen there-<br/>
from.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
what she then was not. She addressed<br/>
the President, and said, with his per-<br/>
mission, she wished to say a few words<br/>
to the meeting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She had come because she heard<br/>
they were going to decide the "license<br/>
question."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You," said she, "all know who I<br/>
am. You once knew me as the mistress<br/>
of one of the best estates in the borough.<br/>
I once had a husband and five sons,<br/>
and woman never had a kinder husband,<br/>
—mother never had five better or more<br/>
affectionate sons. But where are they<br/>
now!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Doctor, I ask where are they now!<br/>
In yonder burial-ground there are six<br/>
graves filled by that husband, and these<br/>
five sons; and oh! they are all drunk-<br/>
ards' graves! Docter, how came they<br/>
to be drunkards! You would come<br/>
and drink with them, and you told<br/>
that temperate drinking would do<br/>
them good. And you too, Sir, (addres-<br/>
sing the pastor) would come and drink<br/>
with my husband, and my sons thought<br/>
they might drink with safety, because<br/>
they saw you drink.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Deacon, you sold them rum, which<br/>
made them drunkards. You have now<br/>
got my farm, and all my property, and<br/>
you got all by rum! And now, I have<br/>
done my errand, I go back to the<br/>
poor-house, for that is my home!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You, doctor, you, reverend Sir,<br/>
and you, deacon, I shall never meet<br/>
again, until I meet you at the bar of<br/>
God, where you, too, will meet my<br/>
ruined and lost husband, and those five<br/>
sons, who, through your means and<br/>
influence, fill the drunkard's grave!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The old woman sat down. Perfect<br/>
silence prevailed until broken by the<br/>
President, who rose to put the ques-<br/>
tion to the meeting—"Shall we peti-<br/>
tion the Court to issue the licenses to<br/>
the borough for the ensuing year!"<br/>
and then one unbroken "No!" which<br/>
made the very walls re-echo with the<br/>
sound, told the result of the poor old<br/>
woman's appeal—British workman.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[We are thankful that no Docter,<br/>
or clergyman, or deacon among us is<br/>
stained in the least with such a crime<br/>
as the one so affectingly described by<br/>
the eloquent widow.—-Ed]
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
John Wesley's Reproof.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JOHN WESLEY, having to travel<br/>
some distance in a stagecoach, fell in<br/>
with a pleasant-tempered, well-inform-<br/>
ed officer. His conversation was<br/>
sprightly and entertaining, but fre-<br/>
quently mingled with oaths. When<br/>
they were about to take the last stage,<br/>
Mr. Wesley took the officer apart, and<br/>
after expressing the pleasure he had<br/>
enjoyed in his company, told him he<br/>
was thereby encouraged to ask of him<br/>
a very great favour. "I would take a<br/>
pleasure in obliging you," said the<br/>
officer, "and I am sure you will not make<br/>
an unreasonable request."Then,"<br/>
said Mr. Wesley, "as we have to travel<br/>
together some time, I beg that if I<br/>
should so far forget myself as to swear,<br/>
you will kindly reprove me." The<br/>
officer immediately saw the motive,<br/>
felt the force of the request, and with<br/>
a smile thanked Mr. Wesley.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Eloquence of Grief.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE American philanthropist, Gov-<br/>
ernor Briggs, relates the following<br/>
affecting narrative:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The inhabitants of a thriving burgh<br/>
in Pennsylvania, assembled, as was<br/>
their custom, to decide what number<br/>
(if any) of licenses the town should<br/>
potition for from the County, from<br/>
whence they were issued. There was<br/>
a very full attendance. The magistrate<br/>
presided, and the physician, deacon,<br/>
and pastor of the village, were on the<br/>
platform. One of the most respectable<br/>
citizens, after a short speech, moved<br/>
that the meeting petition for the usual<br/>
number of licenses, and not give way<br/>
to any excitement. When it was about<br/>
to be almost universally adopted, and<br/>
the President was going to put the<br/>
motion to the meeting, an object rose<br/>
in a distant part of the meeting, and<br/>
all eyes were instantly turned in that<br/>
direction. It was an old woman,<br/>
poorly clad, and whose careworn coun-<br/>
tenance was the powerful index of no<br/>
light sufferings; and yet, there was<br/>
something in the flash of her bright<br/>
eye, that told, she had once been
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
What "Little Mound."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
General Imboden, late of the Con-<br/>
federate service, is now in New York,<br/>
raising funds for the establishment of a<br/>
great express company in the South.<br/>
When he last appeared in print during<br/>
the war, he was proposing to strew<br/>
Western Virginia with "vandal carcas-<br/>
es," meaning the bodies of Unionists.<br/>
When one reads some of the speeches<br/>
of the Southern chiefs during the war,<br/>
one wonders how they are not ashamed<br/>
to sit at tables, eat bread and butter,<br/>
and do the ordinary work of life like the<br/>
rest of us. Mr. Toombs, of Georgia,<br/>
solemnly promised on paper, only a<br/>
year ago, to sacrifice himself when<br/>
"all was lost," but is still alive and,<br/>
we presume, in good health. Jeffer-<br/>
son Davis, too, pledged himself under<br/>
his own hand, in 1860, that if war<br/>
broke out, a "small mound on the<br/>
borders of his State would show where<br/>
he and some of his neighbors met the<br/>
enemy." The "mound," we will<br/>
wager, is not visible, and he apparent-<br/>
ly means to keep out of it as long as<br/>
he can—Nation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Josh Billings on Hens.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Josh. Billings talks learnedly, as fol-<br/>
lows:-—The best time tew sett a hen<br/>
is when the hen is ready. I kant tell<br/>
you what the best breed iz, but the<br/>
shangbigh is the meanest. It kosts<br/>
az moch to board one as it dus a<br/>
stage hoes, and you might az well un-<br/>
dertake to fat a fanning mill by run-<br/>
ning oats thru it. There aint no pro-<br/>
fit in keepin a hen for his eags if he<br/>
laze less than one a day. Hens are<br/>
very long lived, if tha don’t contract<br/>
tho throat disesze: there is a great<br/>
many goes to pot by this melankolly<br/>
disease. I kant tell exactly bow tew<br/>
pick out a hen, but as a general thing<br/>
the long eard ones, I kno, are least<br/>
apt to scratch up the garden. Eggs<br/>
packed in equal parts of salt and lime<br/>
water, with the other end down, will<br/>
keep from 30 to 40 years, if tha are<br/>
not disturbed. Fresh beefstake is<br/>
good for hens; I serpose 4 or 5 pounds<br/>
a day would be awl a hen would need<br/>
at first along. I shall be happee tew<br/>
advize with you, at enny time, on the<br/>
ehn question-—and take it in eggs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Life Clock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our brains are seventy year clocks.<br/>
The angel of life winds them up<br/>
once for all, then closes the cases and<br/>
gives the key into the hand of the<br/>
angel of resurrection. Tic tac! tic-tac!<br/>
go, the wheels of thought; our will<br/>
cannot stop them; madness only<br/>
makes them go faster, death only can<br/>
break into the case, and, seizing the<br/>
ever-swinging pendulum wh.ch we<br/>
call the heart, silence at last the click-<br/>
ing of the terrible escapement we have<br/>
carried so long beneath our aching<br/>
foreheads. If we could only get at<br/>
them as we lie on our pillows and<br/>
count the dead beats of thought after<br/>
thought, and image after image, jarr-<br/>
ing through the over tired organ!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Will nobody block those wheels, un-<br/>
couple their pinions, cut the string<br/>
which holds those weights? What a<br/>
passion comes over us sometimes for<br/>
silence and rest, that this dreadful<br/>
mechanism, unwinding the endless tap-<br/>
estry of time, embroidered with spec-<br/>
tral figures of life and death, would<br/>
have but one brief holiday!—O. W.<br/>
Holmes.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
What "War of the Races."
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Nation, commenting on Presi-<br/>
dent Johnson's statement to Major<br/>
Stearns to the effect that Negro Suf-<br/>
frage would bring on a "war of races,"<br/>
says:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How does he know it would cause<br/>
a war of races, any better than he and<br/>
most other Democrats knew four years<br/>
ago, as they believed they did, that<br/>
emancipation would cause a war of<br/>
races? It is quite clear that we have<br/>
not yet got at half the frightful conse-<br/>
quences that are likely to flow from<br/>
negro suffrage. "A Yan[?]ee" says it<br/>
would lead to amalgamation-—that the<br/>
white fathers would want to marry<br/>
their daughters to blacks so as to have<br/>
"mulatto grandchildren;" to the elec-<br/>
tion of negroes to the Senate. The<br/>
World says it would lead to the legal<br/>
establishment of polygamy in all the<br/>
Southern States, and the conversion of<br/>
the negroes to Mormonism. Mr.<br/>
Johnson now says it would lead to a<br/>
"war of races." We shall probably<br/>
hear next that it would cause an<br/>
epidemic among the cows or a drying<br/>
up of the oil wells. The powers of<br/>
the "everlasting negro" are evidently<br/>
not half revealed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Lincoln—A Beautiful Tribute.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
 "It was a great compensation to the<br/>
martyred President that God permit-<br/>
ted him to see the work of crushing the<br/>
army of treason finished before he was<br/>
sent to his last account by the bloody<br/>
hand of assassination. His death, and<br/>
the mode and time of his death, have<br/>
made his name a symbol. When in<br/>
future ages the dreams of the friends of<br/>
liberty shall have been consummated,<br/>
and the genius of art seeks to embody<br/>
the spirit of liberty in a comprehensive<br/>
and symbolic form, its apotheosis will<br/>
be Lincoln. Eyes schooled to beauty<br/>
will turn from the perfect models of<br/>
Greek and Roman art, while hearts<br/>
pay tribute of respect to a form which<br/>
no artist would have chosen for a model,<br/>
but which grew into greatness under<br/>
the hand of God. The face which<br/>
lacked symmetry, whose corrugated<br/>
lines gave it an expression some regard-<br/>
ed as uncouth, will beam upon the com-<br/>
ing centuries with a glory unspeakable.<br/>
No bust of an Alexander—no noble<br/>
head of ancient Greek or Roman—be<br/>
the philosopher, warrior or poet—but<br/>
will sink into insignificance before that<br/>
of the humble Western rail splitter,<br/>
whose career illustrated the universal<br/>
aspiration of the human heart."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
President Lincoln on
Negro Suffrage.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
New York, September 25.—-The<br/>
Southern Advocate, of the 17th, says:<br/>
The following extract, which has just<br/>
been published, is from the late Pre-<br/>
sident Lincoln's letter to General<br/>
Wadsworth, who fell in the battle of<br/>
the Wilderness: “You desire to know,<br/>
in the event of our complete success<br/>
in the field, and the same being fol-<br/>
lowed by a loyal and cheerful submis-<br/>
sion on the part of the South, if uni-<br/>
versal amnesty should not be accom-<br/>
panied with universal suffrage. Now,<br/>
since you know my private views as to<br/>
what terms should be granted to the<br/>
South in the contingency mentioned.<br/>
I will here add, if our success should<br/>
thus be realized, and followed by such<br/>
desired results, I cannot see, if a uni-<br/>
versal amnesty is granted, how, under<br/>
the circumstances, we can avoid exact-<br/>
ing in return universal suffrage, or at<br/>
least suffrage on the basis of intelligence<br/>
and military service. How to better<br/>
the condition of the colored race has<br/>
long been a study which has attracted<br/>
my serious and careful attention. I am<br/>
clear and decided as to what course I<br/>
shall pursue in the premises, regarding<br/>
it as a religious duty that the nation<br/>
shall be the guardian of these people,<br/>
who have so heroically vindicated their<br/>
manhood on the battle-field, where,<br/>
in assisting to save the Republic, they<br/>
have demonstrated in blood their right<br/>
to the ballot, which is but a humane<br/>
protection of the flag they have so<br/>
fearlessly defended."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Newton and Voltaire.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a tract entitled "Astral Wonders,"<br/>
written by the Rev. Mr. Craig, Vicar<br/>
of Leamington, occurs the following<br/>
interesting passage:<br/>
Let me narrate to you passage<br/>
concerning Sir Isaac Newton and<br/>
Voltaire. Sir Isaac wrote a book on<br/>
the prophet Daniel, and another on<br/>
the Revelations; and he said, in order<br/>
to fulfil certain prophecies before a<br/>
certain date was terminated, namely,<br/>
1260 years, there would be a certain<br/>
mode of traveling of which the men in<br/>
his time had no conception; and, that<br/>
the knowledge of mankind would be<br/>
so increased that they would be able<br/>
to travel at the rate of fifty miles an<br/>
hour. Voltaire, who did not believe<br/>
in the Holy Scriptures, got hold of<br/>
this and said: "Now look at that<br/>
mighty mind of Newton, who discover-<br/>
ed gravity, and told us such marvels<br/>
for us all to admire. When he became<br/>
an old man, and got into his dotage,<br/>
he began to study that book called the<br/>
the Bible; and it appears that, in order<br/>
to credit its fabulous nonsense, we<br/>
must believe that mankind's knowledge<br/>
will be so increased that we shall be<br/>
able to travel fifty miles an hour. The<br/>
poor dotard!" exclaimed the philo-<br/>
sophe infidel Voltaire, in the self-<br/>
complacency of his pity. But who is<br/>
the dotard now!
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Man not made to Mourn
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Did God set His fountains of light in the<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}skies,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That man should look up with the tears in<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}his eyes?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Did God make this earth so abundant and<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}fair,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That man should look down with a groan<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}of despair?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Did God fill the world with harmonious<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}life,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That man should go forth with destruction<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}and strife?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Did God scatter freedom o're mountain<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}and wave,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That man should exist as a tyrant and<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}slave?<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Away with so hopeless—so joyless a creed,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}For the soul that believes it is darkened<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}indeed.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
J. C. PRINCE
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_16 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
—O'Leary, gazing with astonish<br/>
ment on an elephant in a menagerie<br/>
asked the keeper. "What kind of a<br/>
beast is that atin hay with his tail?."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-"How long did Adam remain in<br/>
Paradise before he sinned ?" said an<br/>
amiable spouse to her husband. "Till<br/>
he got a wife," was the calm reply.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
How long may it take a man to<br/>
embrace Christ as his Saviour? As<br/>
long as it takes a drowning man to<br/>
let go a straw and lay hold of an of-<br/>
fered rope.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Yung men be more anxious about<br/>
the peddygree your going to leeve<br/>
than yu are about the l sumbony left,<br/>
yu.-—Josh. Billings
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_3_17 -->
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="16" valign="bottom" class="r2b">
        <p class="r01"><b>BANGKOK RECORDER SHIPPING LIST. MARCH 8TH 1866.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r2c">
        <p class="r01"><b>Arrivals.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="8" valign="bottom" class="r2d">
        <p class="r01"><b>Departures</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2e">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r31">
        <p class="r01"><b>DATE</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>NAME</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r30">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r32">
        <p class="r01"><b>TON</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2f">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Emilie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r02">Ottaen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">360</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r02">Dan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r36">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r33">
        <p class="r02">Mar.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r37">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Nicoline</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r34">
        <p class="r02">Ahlman</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r38">
        <p class="r03">319</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r35">
        <p class="r02">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r39">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Kim Sing Hong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Schult</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">540</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Wartburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Gurmer</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">308</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Bre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r40">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Muary</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Harms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">278</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Emilie</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Otison</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">260</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dan.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Mary Rose</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Melane</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">569</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Asham</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">150</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Fre.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Seaman's Bride</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Roth</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">314</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Isis</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Schult</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Prus.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r40">
        <p class="r02">Brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Shooting Star</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">560</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Kim Chy Long</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">174</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">Sch.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Java</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">[..]</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">7</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nieuen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Ballard</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">424</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Lancelot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Dangall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">388</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3d">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3e">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Laura</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3b">
        <p class="r02">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3f">
        <p class="r03">234</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r3c">
        <p class="r02">Ham.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r40">
        <p class="r02">Bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ban Lee</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">204</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Lugger</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cap Sing Moon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Luders</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">466</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Brit.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Chow Phya</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Orton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">353</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r44">
        <p class="r02">Str.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r41">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r45">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Sophia Amalia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r42">
        <p class="r02">Overclift</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r46">
        <p class="r03">284</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r43">
        <p class="r02">Dut.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r47">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r48">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r49">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4c">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4e">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r48">
        <p class="r00"><br></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4f">
        <p class="r03">"</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02">Verena</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4b">
        <p class="r02">Pulaski</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r50">
        <p class="r03">600</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4d">
        <p class="r02">Siam</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r51">
        <p class="r02">Ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r4a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/rawHtml >}}
<table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" class="r04">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="10" valign="bottom" class="r05">
        <p class="r01"><b>Foreign Shipping in Port.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r66">
        <p class="r01"><b>VESSEL'S NAME.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>ARRIVED.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td colspan="2" valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01"><b>FLAG &amp; RIG.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r09">
        <p class="r01"><b>TONS.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>CAPTAIN.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r06">
        <p class="r01"><b>WHERE FROM.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0a">
        <p class="r01"><b>CONSIGNEES.</b></p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r07">
        <p class="r01"><b>DESTINATION.</b></p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r67">
        <p class="r02">A. M. Lawrance</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0d">
        <p class="r03">19</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0c">
        <p class="r02">American</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0f">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r10">
        <p class="r03">606</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">Tayler</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r0b">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r12">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r11">
        <p class="r02">San Francisco</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Swedish</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">297</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Nardberg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Brema</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">400</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Weyhansen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Catherina</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">25</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">245</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Tannen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Charlotte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">8</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">236</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Ahrens</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Clio</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">17</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">136</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Kargill</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Capt. Hodgeton</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Lightering</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Coral Nymph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">14</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">724</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Winchester</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Dueppel</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">10</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">bark</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">450</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Lange</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Chantaboon</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Uncertain</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">G. Finks Sen.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">206</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Ebell</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Amoy</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Galatea</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">6</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">425</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gerrits</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">George Avery</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">November</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">22</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">266</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Jack</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">F. or Charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Ingeburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">December</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">28</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Prussian</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">345</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Peterson</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Ino</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">367</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Bannaw</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Ions</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">15</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">550</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Brewster</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.<span class="Apple-converted-space">  </span>.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">J. G. Fichte</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">24</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">282</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Megendrick</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Katinka</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">October</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">30</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">brig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">258</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Greig</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">London</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Kung Mou</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">186</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Westcott</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Swatow</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Lancelot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">5</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">ship</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">888</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Dougall</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">May Queen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">21</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">350</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Gifillan</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Borneo co. Limited</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">F. or charter</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Maury</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">1</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Hamburg</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">378</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Harms</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02">Hong Kong</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Rantipole</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">13</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">100</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Stiles</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Ravensbourne</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">March</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">410</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Cooper</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Rudolph</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">February</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">2</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">210</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Olrichs</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Pickenpack T. &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r69">
        <p class="r02">Sophia</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1e">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1d">
        <p class="r03">27</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1c">
        <p class="r02">Hanover</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1f">
        <p class="r02">schooner</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r20">
        <p class="r03">99</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02">Manners</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1b">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r22">
        <p class="r02">A. Markwald &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r21">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Stella</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">3</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02">barque</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">362</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Day</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Scott &amp; Co.</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Singapore</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r68">
        <p class="r02">Turandot</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r16">
        <p class="r02">January</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r15">
        <p class="r03">20</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r14">
        <p class="r02">Bremen</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r17">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r18">
        <p class="r03">408</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">Meinert</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r13">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r1a">
        <p class="r02">Chinese</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r19">
        <p class="r02">China</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r6a">
        <p class="r02">Victoria</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r26">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r25">
        <p class="r03">26</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r24">
        <p class="r02">British</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r27">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r28">
        <p class="r03">288</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02">Cobbe</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r23">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r2a">
        <p class="r02">Chu Ah Lye</p>
      </td>
      <td valign="bottom" class="r29">
        <p class="r02"><span class="Apple-converted-space">    </span>do</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
{{< /news/rawHtml >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
THE CONFLICT OF H.M.S. BULLDOG
WITH THE FORTS
AND GUN-BOATS AT CAPE HAYTIEN.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The West India mail has brought<br/>
us a more particular account of the<br/>
affair on the coast of Hayti, or St.<br/>
Domingo, at a place called Cape Hay-<br/>
tien, on the north side of that island,<br/>
where the British steam-sloop Bulldog,<br/>
carrying six guns, under the command<br/>
of Captain Charles Wake, got into a<br/>
dispute with the negroe chief Salnave,<br/>
the head of the insurrectionary faction<br/>
in the Republic of Hayti; and on the<br/>
23rd of October, had a regular battle<br/>
with the forts and flotilla of gun-boats<br/>
in the harbour; the result being that,<br/>
after silencing the forts and sinking<br/>
two of the enemy's vessels, the Bulldog<br/>
accidentally got aground, and was<br/>
burned and abandoned by Captain<br/>
Wake, to prevent her becoming their<br/>
prey. Three of our men were killed<br/>
and six were severely wounded. With<br/>
regard to the origin of the dispute, it<br/>
appears that the British Consul at Cape<br/>
Haytien, Mr. Dutton, had taken to his<br/>
house a few Haytien refugees, and<br/>
that Salnave had desired M. Dutton to<br/>
give up these people, which he refused,<br/>
whereupon his house was entered by<br/>
force, and the poor fellows under his<br/>
protection were taken out and shot by<br/>
Salnave on the seashore. The follow-<br/>
ers of Salnave then commenced to<br/>
wreak their vengeance on the Consul's<br/>
house; they smashed his furniture,<br/>
took everything they could lay their<br/>
hands on; pulled down the English<br/>
flag, stamped and spat upon it. Mr.<br/>
Dutton immediately went on board<br/>
the Bulldog (which was lying off the<br/>
Cape at the time) and laid the ques-<br/>
tion before the Captain who went at<br/>
once and asked Salnave what he meant.<br/>
The reply was a mere burst of vulgar<br/>
insolence. The Captain then returned<br/>
on board and wrote him a letter, de-<br/>
manding full and ample satisfaction in<br/>
twenty-four hours. Next morning the<br/>
Bulldog was seen steaming into the<br/>
harbour, and, on passing Port Picoli,<br/>
was fired into. The Bulldog at once<br/>
answered this fire with a broadside<br/>
dismantled all the guns on that fort,<br/>
steamed further in, smashed up ano-<br/>
ther small fort, and sent a shell into<br/>
the arsenal, blowing it up. The Vol-<br/>
drogue, a vessel which had been taken<br/>
by the rebels, had the impudence to<br/>
fire at the Bulldog. One shot, in re-<br/>
turn, was quite enough to settle her;<br/>
after receiving it, she reared on her<br/>
stern and went to the bottom in about<br/>
fifteen fathoms. A schooner, armed<br/>
by Salnave, came to the rescue of the<br/>
Voldrogue. It is needless to state that<br/>
she met with the same fate. The worst,<br/>
however, is yet to be told. The poor<br/>
Bulldog, after having fought for up-<br/>
wards of ten hours, got on shore on<br/>
one of the numerous reefs about Cape<br/>
Haytien. Immediately, the enemy on<br/>
shore took advantage of her position<br/>
and brought all their batteries to bear.<br/>
The Captain fought to the last pound<br/>
of gunpowder; that finished, he thought<br/>
it necessary to set fire to and abandon<br/>
his vessel. The officers and crew went<br/>
to Jamaica in the Union screw-steamer.<br/>
A few days afterwards the English<br/>
frigate Galatea, thirty-two guns, came<br/>
from Jamaica and lay about three-<br/>
hours at Port an Prince, saluted the<br/>
Haytien Republican flag, and then<br/>
left, with her Britannic Majesty's<br/>
Consul H. St. John on board, for<br/>
Cape Haytien. The commander of<br/>
the Galatea at once sent his message<br/>
ashore, demanding that Salnave and<br/>
all the members of the revolutionary<br/>
committee should surrender uncondi-<br/>
tionally on board that vessel. In case<br/>
of refusal the Galatea and Lily after<br/>
a delay of twelve-hours, would bom-<br/>
bard the forts. The French vessel<br/>
which brought the news from Cape<br/>
Haytien left just three-hours before<br/>
the term had expired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
London Illustrated News
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-I have had occasion to observe<br/>
that a warm, blundering man does<br/>
more for the world than a frigid wise<br/>
man. One who gets into the habit of<br/>
inquiring about proprieties, and the<br/>
expediencies, and occasions, often<br/>
spends his whole life without doing<br/>
anything to the purpose.-—Cecil.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—At twilight every hen becomes a<br/>
rooster.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The poor pittance of seventy years<br/>
is not worth being a villain for.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The way to get a good wife—-get<br/>
a good girl and go to the parson.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—What affectionate times these<br/>
are, Everything is so "dear!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A Warning to Ladies.-—Tattle be-<br/>
gins with a-T.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-08_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Englishman's opinion of
Negro Suffrage.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The eminent English writer upon<br/>
political topics, John Stuart Mill,<br/>
writes as follows to a friend in the<br/>
United States:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“I have always been afraid of one<br/>
thing only—-that you would be too<br/>
gentle. I should be sorry to see any<br/>
life taken after the war was over,<br/>
(except those of the assassins,) or any<br/>
evil inflicted in mere vengeance; but<br/>
one thing I hope will be considered<br/>
absolutely necessary: to break alto-<br/>
gether the power of the slaveholding<br/>
class. Unless this is done, the aboli-<br/>
tion of slavery will be merely nomi-<br/>
nal. If an aristocracy of ex-slave-<br/>
holders remain masters of the State<br/>
Legislatures, they will be able effect-<br/>
ually to nullify a great part of the<br/>
result which has been so dearly bought<br/>
by the blood of the Free States. They<br/>
and their dependants must be effect-<br/>
ually outnumbered at the polling places,<br/>
which can only be effected by the<br/>
concession of full equality of all<br/>
political rights to negroes, and by<br/>
a large immigration of settlers from<br/>
the North.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-25_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
J. THOMSON.
Photographer.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to intimate that copies of<br/>
his series of views of Siam, may<br/>
be had (during his absence from Bang-<br/>
kok) at the residence of Capt. Ames<br/>
Klang Kot Mai Fort.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}January, 16th 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnificent Dock—-is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Length{{< news/indent2 >}}300{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent4 >}}{{< news/indent2 >}}( to be extended<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Breadth{{< news/indent2 >}}100{{< news/indent2 >}}feet.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Depth of Water 15{{< news/indent2 >}}"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc. with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign there—-Dockage bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
SUPERINTENDENT.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-18_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHINA TRADERS.
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed Agent at Bang-<br/>
kok for the above named Insurance<br/>
Company, is now prepared to issue<br/>
policies on Marine Risks upon the usual<br/>
terms, to an extent not exceeding<br/>
$40,000 on first class sailing vessels,<br/>
and $70,000 on steamers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In addition to the usual Brokerage<br/>
of 10 P cent, a further cash return<br/>
of Five per cent upon premium paid,<br/>
will be made to all Insurers with this<br/>
Company. Payment for losses will be<br/>
made whereever an Agency of the<br/>
Company exists, in one month after<br/>
proof of loss.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
F. BLAKE.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 18th Jan. 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-15_4_2 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MARSHAL'S SALE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WILL be sold on the 4th. day<br/>
of April 1866, by virtue of a<br/>
Judgment of the United States Con-<br/>
sular Court, in the case of W. BUR-<br/>
DON vs. J. H. CHANDLER ren-<br/>
dered and made public on the 14th. of<br/>
December 1865, that splendid dwell-<br/>
ing built by J. H. Chandler, situated<br/>
on the Menam river nearly opposite<br/>
the "An. Rice Mill". The house con-<br/>
tains sixteen rooms excellently and<br/>
substantially finished and planned with<br/>
a view to comfort and domestic uses,<br/>
with many of the modern improve-<br/>
ments, is finely ventilated and enjoys<br/>
a splendid view of the river; is almost<br/>
surrounded by, perhaps, the finest gar-<br/>
den of fruit trees in Siam, bearing the<br/>
choicest fruits produced in this climate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Has out houses for servants, bath<br/>
house, cook house, two stories high<br/>
and other conveniences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the same time and place will be<br/>
sold, all the Household furniture,<br/>
consisting in part of tables, bureaus,<br/>
bedsteads, bed and bedding, chair and<br/>
sofas, table furniture, silver, crockery,<br/>
lamps, cutlery etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Also
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A lot of Fancy dry goods, and a<br/>
collection of valuable books.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Catalogues will be ready on the 26th<br/>
of March on the premises, and goods<br/>
will be ready for examination on the<br/>
same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
J M. HOOD.
U. S. Consul.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE, the Undersigned, herewith no-<br/>
tify all Ship Masters and owners<br/>
interested, that we will henceforth, on-<br/>
ly acknowledge those Pilots, who hold<br/>
their Licenses in accordance with the<br/>
Port Regulations from the Harbor<br/>
Master, and countersigned by us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. MARKWALD & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Agents for the Hamburg and Bre-<br/>
men Underwriters.<br/>
Bangkok; 21st January 14th 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Hongkong Insurance Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Secretaries Messrs. Jardine Matheson & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Undersigned having been appointed<br/>
Agents for the above company are prepared<br/>
to accept risks up to $25,000 on first class<br/>
sailing vessels, and $40,000 on Steamers,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
A MARKWALD & CO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 2nd October, 1864.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_18 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
And Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church Kawk-
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kwai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_19 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber would<br/>
hereby inform the public<br/>
that he has a free daily<br/>
post boat connected with<br/>
the printing office of the<br/>
American Missionary As-<br/>
sociation, by which the of-<br/>
fice, although two miles<br/>
above the centre of foreign<br/>
business,is virtually brought<br/>
to the doors of all the Con-<br/>
sulates and foreign mer-<br/>
chants, at least once a day,<br/>
(Sunday's excepted), and<br/>
twice a day while the<br/>
“Chow Phya” is in port.<br/>
The regular daily boat is<br/>
dispatched from the office<br/>
about 9 A. M. and the occa-<br/>
sional boat at 1 P. M. The<br/>
post boy will call at each<br/>
of the Consulates, and at<br/>
the houses of the principle<br/>
foreign merchants, for let-<br/>
ters, or other business for<br/>
the office.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters or other papers,<br/>
can be left in charge of<br/>
W. H. Hamilton Esqr. at<br/>
Messer Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
D. B BRADLEY.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_21 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I HEREBY notify that I will not<br/>
be responsible for any debts con-<br/>
tracted by the crew of the British<br/>
Barque "George Avery"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
WILLIAM JACK
Master
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(t. f.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-02-22_4_22 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PRINCE SUPRATITH'S ENG-<br/>
LISH SCHOOL by the late Eu-<br/>
ropean Teacher to the Princes of the<br/>
family of His late Majesty the 2nd<br/>
King. Terms for teaching from 3 to<br/>
5 Ticals per month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NOTE.—The above named school<br/>
has been removed to Rooms kindly<br/>
granted for the purpose to suit the<br/>
convenience of Pupils, by H. R. H.<br/>
Prince Alongkote-Kicha-Preecha on<br/>
His Highness's front compound, and<br/>
facing the street that leads Eastward<br/>
from the North Easternmost castle or<br/>
Bastion, of His Gracious Majesty the<br/>
reigning Sovereign's Palaceo. A sign-<br/>
board in English and Siamese charac-<br/>
ters indicates the spot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd February 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT,
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and<br/>
Foreign community, that he is pre-<br/>
pared to take Photographs of all sizes<br/>
and varieties, at his floating house just<br/>
above Santa Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He has on hand, for sale, a great<br/>
variety of Photographs of Palaces,<br/>
Temples, buildings, scenery and public<br/>
men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
TERMS—Moderate.
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
