---
linkTitle: 'July 19th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - July 19th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); July 19th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 51
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, July 19th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 28.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
“I Hold Still”
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tribulation means THRESHING, and<br/>
Trench, in his excellent treatise on the<br/>
study of words, has carried out the fig-<br/>
ure, showing that it is only by threshing<br/>
us that God separates the wheat from<br/>
the chaff. Here is a precious little mor-<br/>
sel which somebody has clipped from an<br/>
old paper and sent to us, credited “to<br/>
the German of Julius Sturm,” and which<br/>
will speak touchingly to many a heart<br/>
which has been put into the FURNACE of<br/>
affliction.—-RELIGIOUS MAGAZINE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Pain’s furnace heat within me quivers<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}God’s breath upon the flame doth blow,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And all my heart in anguish shivers,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And trembles at the fiery glow :<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And yet I whisper, as God will!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in his hottest fire hold still.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He comes and lays my heart all heated,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}On the hard anvil, minded so<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Into his own fair shape to beat it<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}With his great hammer, blow on blow;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And yet I whisper, As God will!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And at his heaviest blows hold still.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He takes my softened heart and beats it;<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}The sparks fly off at every blow;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He turns it o’er and o’er and beats it,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And lets it cool, and makes it glow;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And yet I whisper, as God will!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And in his mighty hand hold still.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Why should I murmur? for the sorrow<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Thus only longer lived would be;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Its end may come, and will, to-morrow,<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}When God has done his work in me:<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So I say, trusting, As God will!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And trusting to the end, hold still.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}He kindles for my profit purely<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Affliction’s glowing, fiery brand,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And all his heaviest blows are surely<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}Inflicted by a Master’s hand :<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}So I say, praying, As God will!<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}And hope in him, and suffer still.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Karens.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A few numbers back, we promised to<br/>
return to the Rev. Dr. Mason's interesting<br/>
pamphlets on the Religion, Mythology<br/>
and Astronomy among the Karens. We<br/>
terminated our last notice of the subject<br/>
with the Rainbow,—-the bow of promise<br/>
to the descendants of Abraham and one<br/>
of the most beautiful objects in nature.<br/>
The Karens were apparently ignorant of<br/>
how it was formed. They now know all<br/>
about it. According to Dr. Mason, the<br/>
Karens entertained the opinion that the<br/>
waters are inhabited by beings, whose<br/>
proper form is that of dragons. But they<br/>
occasionally appear as men and who take<br/>
wives of the children of men. These are<br/>
Naida, who in the belief of the ancients<br/>
were water nymphs, female deities, who<br/>
preside over rivers and springs. In<br/>
ancient Mythology the world is supposed<br/>
to be full of nymphs, some celestial and<br/>
some terrestrial. They are the goddess-<br/>
es or guardians of mountains, meadows,<br/>
forests and plains.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Karen Naida differ from those of<br/>
classic antiquity. They never take the<br/>
form of females, but always appear as<br/>
men. "A water spirit called Mau lau<br/>
kwie, figures largely in the Karen Myths.<br/>
A girl is represented as having formed an<br/>
acquaintance with this personage, Mau<br/>
lau kwie, and as holding clandestine meet-<br/>
ings with him, when she went down to<br/>
the stream to draw water. Standing on<br/>
the bank she sung,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Mau lau Kwe come let us but be together
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mau lau kwe come let us wash our faces<br/>
together.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mau lau kwe come with beads and rings.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Come Come as thou art wont.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mau lau Kwe came and they washed<br/>
their faces together, and combed their<br/>
heads together.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dryads and Oreads are two classes of<br/>
nymphs, one presiding over woods the<br/>
other over mountains as their Greek origin<br/>
imply." The Karen elders relate, obser-<br/>
ves Dr. Mason, that Mount Kie ku in<br/>
the Bghai country, and the people Tha<br/>
Kau beyond the seas had a quarrel and<br/>
engaged in war. The combatants have<br/>
been fighting ever since and the quarrel<br/>
is not ended. As these supernatural per-<br/>
sonages use thunderbolts and crocodiles<br/>
in their warfare, it will be some gener-<br/>
ations before the supply is expended.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Brownies are good natured spirits which<br/>
appear in Karen stories. In Scotland<br/>
among superstitious people a brownie<br/>
"is a good natured spirit, who was suppos-<br/>
ed often to perform important services<br/>
around the house by night, such as thrash-<br/>
ing churning &c."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Mason furnishes the following<br/>
Karen story. "The elders say that there<br/>
was once a poor orphan boy, that owned<br/>
nothing but a dog which had seven tails.<br/>
On one occasion he noticed his dog go<br/>
and bark on a hillock in the field near the<br/>
house, but when he went there he found<br/>
nothing so he came away. Still the dog<br/>
remained barking and he went again and<br/>
dug into the hillock, when he found a<br/>
cavity with an egg in it. He took the<br/>
egg intending to eat it, put it in a basket<br/>
and went to work in his field. During<br/>
his absence the spirit in the egg cooked<br/>
the poor boy's rice and curry for him,<br/>
when he came home, he found his meal<br/>
ready prepared for him, but he was afraid<br/>
to eat, and he went to the neighbours to<br/>
inquire, if they could explain the matter.<br/>
They replied to him roughly. "Thou art<br/>
an orphan, thy house is nasty and dirty,<br/>
who dost thou think would go up into it?<br/>
He returned to his house and being very<br/>
hungry he said to himself, "If I die, I<br/>
will eat." So he ate and nothing happened<br/>
to him.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The same thing occurred the next day.<br/>
His food was cooked and ready for him<br/>
on returning from his labour. The fol-<br/>
lowing day, he determined to watch, so<br/>
after going away he returned cautiously<br/>
and he saw a young woman come out of<br/>
the basket. She went to the brook, and<br/>
brought water and then cooked the rice.<br/>
He showed himself to her and she no<br/>
more took the form of an egg, but be-<br/>
came his wife. She said to him "my<br/>
name is Miss Egg, but never speak my<br/>
name. If thou dost, I shall disappear and<br/>
thou will see me no more." It is men-<br/>
tioned that the young man, incautiously<br/>
uttered the name and so lost his wife,<br/>
but found her again by means of his<br/>
faithful dog.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In regard to Feticism, Dr. Mason re-<br/>
marks, that the Karens in some of their<br/>
observances come very near to the worship<br/>
of "stocks and stones." Many keep stores<br/>
in their houses which they suppose pos-<br/>
sess miraculous powers, and which seem<br/>
to represent the household gods of the<br/>
ancients.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All material things have certain magical<br/>
properties, said to be attached to them.<br/>
Hence the MAGIC RING is a story which<br/>
the Karen elders repeat as one of their<br/>
traditions. There was an orphan child<br/>
say the elders, who was brought up by<br/>
his grandmother. He was so lazy that he<br/>
would not open the skins of the plantains,<br/>
when he wanted to eat them. He would<br/>
do nothing but play. He got the name<br/>
of Mr. Laziness. His grand mother got<br/>
rid of him by sending him off on a trad-<br/>
ing boat. Here he would do nothing,<br/>
but when the boatmen were away he<br/>
would watch the boat, and for this ser-<br/>
vice he received an occasional bit of silver.<br/>
One morning after the boat men had all<br/>
gone on shore, he heard that one of the<br/>
people was about to kill a cat. He bought<br/>
it. About noon, he heard that another<br/>
person was going to kill a rat. He bought<br/>
that too. Near evening several persons<br/>
brought a crocodile along which was also<br/>
to be killed. He bought the crocodile<br/>
from its owners. He also bought a dog<br/>
for a quarter of a rupee. He thus owned<br/>
a dog, a cat, a rat and a crocodile.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When the crocodile was placed in the<br/>
boat, it spoke and said, "Master thou<br/>
hast had mercy on me and bought me,"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
and I shall not die. The reason that I<br/>
devour men is, there is a gold ring in my<br/>
head. The ring is under the flesh in my<br/>
head, and whatsoever I desire I obtain.<br/>
Chisel it out, take it for yourself, and let<br/>
me go into the water. So he took a chisel<br/>
belonging to one of the boatmen cut the<br/>
gold ring out of the crocodiles head and<br/>
let it go free into the water. He put the<br/>
gold ring on his finger, and when he de-<br/>
sired silver, silver came into his box, and<br/>
when he desired gold, gold come into his<br/>
box. The boatmen came back at night<br/>
to the boat, but knew nothing of what<br/>
had happened.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many marvellous things are related of<br/>
the man and his magic ring, which we<br/>
regret we are unable here to reproduce.<br/>
We must defer our closing notice to an-<br/>
other day. These interesting topics give<br/>
us an insight into the character of the<br/>
Karen mind and of the different objects,<br/>
which have been held in oral tradition<br/>
among them for many centuries past.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Present Congress.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This body entered upon its duties with a<br/>
spirit which electrified the nation. Its<br/>
first important act was the creation of a<br/>
Joint Committee of Fifteen on the Recon-<br/>
struction of the Union: a committee which<br/>
the President now calls an "Irresponsible<br/>
Directory;" a committee which is fortun-<br/>
ately irresponsible to the President. What<br/>
was the foundation of that memorable<br/>
Committee whose fame has since filled the<br/>
world? Its charter is the following resolu-<br/>
tion:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"RESOLVED (by the House of Represen-<br/>
tatives, the Senate concurring), That a Joint<br/>
Committee of Fifteen members shall be<br/>
appointed, nine of whom shall be members<br/>
of the House, and six members of the Sen-<br/>
ate, who shall INQUIRE INTO THE CONDI-<br/>
TION of the states which formed the so-<br/>
called Confederate States of America, and<br/>
report WHETHER THEY OR ANY OF THEM<br/>
ARE ENTITLED TO BE REPRESENTED<br/>
IN EITHER HOUSE OF CONGRESS, with<br/>
leave to report at any time by bill or other-<br/>
wise."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Is not this resolution explicit? Does it<br/>
not enjoin upon the Committee something<br/>
more than the petty task of determining<br/>
the loyalty of certain so-called MEMBERS<br/>
ELECT from the Southern States? Does it<br/>
not impose the duty of inquiring whether<br/>
the SOUTHERN STATES themselves, or any<br/>
of them, are "entitled to representation!"<br/>
This resolution was passed, this Committee<br/>
formed, so long ago as December—and not<br/>
only Thaddeus Stevens, but Henry J. Ray-<br/>
mond, voted aye. The measure, at the<br/>
time, commanded the almost universal as-<br/>
sent of the Republican party—even of<br/>
those journals which have since eaten their<br/>
own words to shout for the President. But,<br/>
on Washington's Birthday, Mr. Andrew<br/>
Johnson, speaking the wish of the copper-<br/>
heads and rebels who composed his fit<br/>
body-guard in that scene of humiliation,<br/>
denied the RIGHT of Congress to inquire<br/>
whether or not any of the late rebellious<br/>
states are now so unrebellious as to<br/>
be "entitled to representation," 'but main-<br/>
tained that each and all such rebellious<br/>
states must be taken for granted as<br/>
entitled to representation, and must be im-<br/>
mediately admitted to seats in Congress.<br/>
His exact words (if any of his words on<br/>
that day could be called exact) stand in<br/>
the amended report as follows:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"By this rule," he says, "it is assumed<br/>
that there must be laws passed recognizing<br/>
A STATE AS IN THE UNION, or its practic-<br/>
al relations to the Union as restored, be-<br/>
fore the respective houses, under the Con-<br/>
stitution, can judge of the elections, re-<br/>
turns, and qualifications of their own<br/>
members. What a position is that!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No, Mr. Johnson, the issue is not, nor<br/>
has it been, nor will it be, that "there<br/>
must be laws passed recognizing a state as<br/>
in the Union." On the contrary, the ques-<br/>
tion whether or not the states were ever<br/>
out of the Union does not enter into the<br/>
President's controversy with Congress.<br/>
The disputed question simply is, whether<br/>
or not as yet these States, or any of them,<br/>
are "entitled to representation." If they<br/>
are entitled to representation, they are of<br/>
course in the Union; but it does not fol-<br/>
low that, because they are in the Union,<br/>
they are entitled to representation. If the<br/>
States were never out of the Union, they<br/>
were not out during the war; but were<br/>
they entitled to representation in the<br/>
United States Congress during the war—I<br/>
say, for instance, while their armies were<br/>
driving McClellan out of the Peninsula?<br/>
No. Let us grant, for argument's sake,<br/>
that the rebel States always WERE in the<br/>
Union, and so are in NOW. If therefore,<br/>
during the last five years, these States<br/>
could be IN the Union yet OUT of Congress,<br/>
can they not still be IN the Union and OUT<br/>
of Congress?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now, what will finally entitle these States<br/>
to representation in Congress? Nothing<br/>
short of permanent good behavior. There<br/>
is but one opinion on this point among the<br/>
great Party that sustains Congress. Until<br/>
these States shall be willing to keep the<br/>
peace for themselves, they must have the<br/>
Federal Government keep it for them.<br/>
Who, therefore, is to decide as to when<br/>
they may be safely "let alone!" Shall<br/>
Congress! Shall the President! Or shall<br/>
the rebel States themselves? The answer<br/>
is, Congress. The President has no more<br/>
voice than the rebel States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But how shall Congress make up this de-<br/>
cision? The question to be decided is<br/>
based upon facts. Congress must therefore<br/>
master these facts. This is exactly what<br/>
the committee of Fifteen are doing—work<br/>
ing night and day; sending for persons and<br/>
papers from all parts of the South; collect-<br/>
ing evidence as to the condition of the re-<br/>
bellious states; developing astounding<br/>
proofs of the prevalence, of turbulence,<br/>
hostility, and treason; recounting almost<br/>
incredible instances of cruelties to negroes;<br/>
demonstrating that some districts are<br/>
hardly more loyal to-day than after the<br/>
first battle of Bull Run; and exhibiting a<br/>
catalogue of inhumanities which, when it<br/>
shall be published, will set the country<br/>
aghast at the fires which yet are burning<br/>
under the ashes of our civil war. The<br/>
strange at tempt of the President to pre-<br/>
cipitate the re-enfranchisement of those<br/>
states against the prerogative of Congress,<br/>
and against the mountain of forbidding<br/>
reasons already piled on the records of the<br/>
Joint Committee, is judicial blindness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile, is the country impatient of<br/>
the spectacle of a reconstruction of the<br/>
Union still uncompleted? And are the<br/>
people seeking to hurry Congress faster<br/>
than a judicious circumspection will war-<br/>
rant? Not at all! If, in the momentous<br/>
task of reconstruction, the President was<br/>
allowed ten months, from April to Decem-<br/>
ber, to achieve a failure, shall complaint<br/>
be made of Congress because it has not in<br/>
three months, from December to March,<br/>
perfected a success? Moreover, the Pre-<br/>
sident, during his ten months, had no Con-<br/>
gress opposed to him; but Congress, during<br/>
its three months, has had a constant op-<br/>
ponent in the President,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At present, in surveying the obstacles to<br/>
a speedy reconstruction, let us take for an<br/>
illustration of the Southern mind the most<br/>
hopeful instance which has yet been offered<br/>
to Northern consideration—the speech of<br/>
Alexander H. Stephens; who, as he comes<br/>
like a Greek bearing a gift, is therefore to<br/>
be watched.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Stephens re-asserts his life-long<br/>
creed of the inequality of white men and<br/>
black in spite of the Declaration of In-<br/>
dependence which teaches that “all men<br/>
are created equal.” He re-erects what he<br/>
calls “the great barrier of races which the<br/>
Creator has placed between this of[?] inferi-<br/>
or class and ourselves”—whereas, the<br/>
South itself has never found this barrier<br/>
to be of the thickness of a bed-curtain. He<br/>
re-babbles Andrew Johnson's maundering<br/>
of a “war of races”—though both the<br/>
former vice-president of the Confederate<br/>
party and its present President know full<br/>
well that the only possible inciters to such<br/>
a war are white-faced rebels, and not<br/>
black-faced loyalists.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let us quote once more from the Mil-<br/>
ledgeville meditations:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“We are in the condition,” says Mr.<br/>
Stephens, “of a man with a dislocated limb<br/>
or a broken leg, and a very bad compound<br/>
fracture too at that. How it was broken<br/>
should not be with him a question of so<br/>
much importance as how it can be restored<br/>
to health, vigor and strength. This re-<br/>
quires of him” as the highest duty to him-<br/>
self, to wait quietly and patiently in splints<br/>
and bandages until nature resumes her ac-<br/>
tive powers, until the vital functions per-<br/>
form their office. The knitting of the<br/>
bones and the granulation of the flesh re-<br/>
quire time.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Exactly so. The great question with<br/>
the Southern States is, how they can be<br/>
“restored.” And what is the pre-requisite<br/>
to this restoration? Mr. Stephens states<br/>
it forcibly. “The highest duty,” he says,<br/>
“IS TO WAIT QUIETLY AND PATIENTLY IN<br/>
SPLINTS AND BANDAGES.” What advice<br/>
can be better? IT IS JUST THIS COURSE OF<br/>
TREATMENT THAT CONGRESS HAS PRE-<br/>
SCRIBED IN THE CONCURRENT RESOLU-<br/>
TION. Congress thus says to those States,<br/>
“Wait until the vital functions perform<br/>
their office.” And we are glad that the<br/>
rebel vice-president comes to the only<br/>
loyal conclusion, which is, “The knitting<br/>
of the bones and the granulation of the<br/>
flesh require time.” Thank you, Mr.<br/>
Stephens? And, to reciprocate, we hereby<br/>
beg an indulgent Congress to grant to<br/>
these slowly recuperating states all the<br/>
time they so greatly need before their full<br/>
and final restoration!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Meanwhile, to the radical Party in Con-<br/>
gress, to the Joint Committee of Fifteen,<br/>
and to the Concurrent Resolution (if Mr.<br/>
Beecher will lend us the use of his favorite<br/>
punctuation) we exclaim, “AMEN AND<br/>
AMEN.—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Pleasing Fact.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 26th of May, I was much en-<br/>
couraged in my visitation amongst the<br/>
crew of the Thames, by the following in-<br/>
cident.—A young sailor on board the SA-<br/>
RAH asked to speak with me in the fore-<br/>
castle.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
With tears starting from his eyes he<br/>
shook me heartily by the hand, saying, "I<br/>
thank you, sir for the copy of the BRIT-<br/>
ISH WORKMAN that you gave me some<br/>
few months back; it has made me TURN<br/>
ABOUT... The pictures were so good, and<br/>
the reading so taking, that I read it<br/>
through before I stopped; and then I was<br/>
touched, and I cried like a child. Think<br/>
I, what a fool I am, I'll stow it away.<br/>
Well, I did so; but after a while, I took<br/>
it out and read it again, and it made me<br/>
THING A BIT; at last I said, 'I'll try to go<br/>
without my 'drops' for one month.' I<br/>
did so, and I can say, that at the month's<br/>
end, my HEALTH was better, and my<br/>
TEMPER was better!
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I then said to my wife, 'Phœbe, I'll<br/>
sign the pledge if you will!' Well, sir, we<br/>
both attended a meeting that evening,<br/>
and we both signed—Well, this was<br/>
a great thing, for, although a young man,<br/>
I had been a great drunkard and a swearer<br/>
I thought I was now a new man, but<br/>
alas! I found very soon, that I was got<br/>
all right. Coming up to London one<br/>
voyage, we had to encounter a very heavy<br/>
gale, and we thought we should all be<br/>
lost,—and oh, sir, very soon did I find<br/>
that TEMPERANCE alone will not save a<br/>
man. I trembled all over, and, for the<br/>
first time, began to pray. The Lord in<br/>
His mercy preserved us, and I promised<br/>
THEN and THERE, that, if religion was to<br/>
be bad, I would have it, come what may.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"On my arrival in London, I went to<br/>
the Seamen's Chapel, in Commercial Road,<br/>
and inquired for you, and bought this<br/>
Bible. Thank God, it is now my greatest<br/>
delight to read and think it over, and the<br/>
best of all, I can say, that through faith<br/>
in Christ, my sins are all forgiven. Hall-<br/>
elujah, praise the Lord! I am happy day<br/>
and night; I can sing, yes, BELOW or<br/>
ALOFT, I can sing.—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}'Oh, for a thousand tongues to sing<br/>
{{< news/indent2 >}}My great Redeemer's praise.'<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
The happy-looking sailor went on to<br/>
say:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"My wife has now taken to religion,<br/>
and our two children are in the Sunday-<br/>
school, and most heartily do I thank you<br/>
for your visits, and the British Work-<br/>
man, for it was the first thing in God's<br/>
hand, in making me a thinking, praying<br/>
man."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We knelt down, in company with three<br/>
others of the crew, and gave thanks to<br/>
God for the work of grace in the heart<br/>
of this once dissipated swearing sailor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THOS. GARLAND, LAY AGENT.
Wesleyan Seamen's Mission.
Commercial Road East.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
A BRAVE FELLOW.—On the 28 ult., at<br/>
Laughland, an engine driver of the Grand<br/>
Trunk Railway of Canada, was driving a<br/>
freight train down the line, on crossing<br/>
near the curve two miles west of Com-<br/>
wall he saw a drunken man sleeping on the<br/>
track. He immediately whistled "down<br/>
brakes," which the conductor and brake-<br/>
man applied as quickly as possible; but<br/>
the distance was so short that it was im-<br/>
possible to pull up in time. Laughland<br/>
immediately ran out on to the cow-catcher,<br/>
and as the locomotive came up he stooped<br/>
forward and seized the man by the neck,<br/>
and endeavoured to pull him on to the<br/>
cow-catcher, but being unable to do so he<br/>
jumped off with the man and succeed-<br/>
ed in shoving him clear of the train. The<br/>
whole train was in the place before it<br/>
could be stopped. On learning the facts<br/>
the authorities ordered that two day's pay<br/>
should be handed over to Laughland as a<br/>
slight reward for his conduct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE WAR OF A SNAKING COAT.—A cor-<br/>
respondent of the United States Times,<br/>
writing from the Winterhous, says:—-<br/>
"An extraordinary snake affair occurred<br/>
in this neighbourhood a few Sundays ago.<br/>
A large snake of the cobras tribe, about<br/>
4 feet 6 inches long, got uncoiled into a<br/>
farmer's house, is supposed on the<br/>
Saturday afternoon, and concealed him-<br/>
self under a harmonium. On the Sunday<br/>
afternoon, the children being at school,<br/>
the farmer and his wife were quietly oc-<br/>
cupying themselves reading, the wife sit-<br/>
ting in front of a window. The snake<br/>
quietly crawled out, got unperceived under<br/>
the good woman's crinoline, and twisted<br/>
itself round her leg from the ankle to the<br/>
knee, which position it kept for upwards<br/>
of half an hour. The farmer's wife, at<br/>
the while thinking it was her favorite kit-<br/>
ten, took no notice of it, until it length,<br/>
wishing to eject the intruder, she slightly<br/>
raised her dress for the purpose. Judge<br/>
of her surprize on finding a deadly<br/>
creature twisted round her leg. She at<br/>
perfectly still, not even looking at her<br/>
husband lest he should disturb the reptile.<br/>
At last it uncoiled itself, and then twisted<br/>
itself about her foot. The shoe fitted<br/>
loosely, and she softly withdrew her foot,<br/>
made one bound across the room, and<br/>
called her husband's attention to the cause<br/>
of the disturbance. The savage creature<br/>
now charged the wife, and was only kept<br/>
off by the husband with his Sunday coat.<br/>
Not so retarded, got under a footstool,<br/>
putting out its head as if to threaten death<br/>
to any one who should approach it. A<br/>
stick was brought to the farmer, who<br/>
struck a terrible blow at its head, but his<br/>
stick instead, shivering the stick to<br/>
pieces. This exasperated the creature,<br/>
which darted out at the farmer, and was<br/>
again kept at bay by the coat. It at<br/>
length retreated into the bedroom, where<br/>
it was killed."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prompt and Pungent.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A benevolent lady was once threading<br/>
her way at night through a back street<br/>
of Philadelphia, on an errand of charity.<br/>
A rude fellow accosted her with the im-<br/>
pertinent question, "Where are you go-<br/>
ing?" Her ready reply was "To ETFR-<br/>
NITY, sir; just where you are going." He<br/>
got more truth than he bargained for,<br/>
and carried away a heavy shot in his con-<br/>
science.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
July 19th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It requires but a glance at the dai-<br/>
ly shipping report, to notice the fact,<br/>
that business is not in a very prosper-<br/>
ous condition. When the report<br/>
dwindles down to one, or two arrivals<br/>
in a week, and some weeks none at<br/>
all, it is certainly low days for Siam,<br/>
and makes us long for the good times<br/>
we had in the earlier days of the Trea-<br/>
ties. When we have plenty of rice,<br/>
and the indications are so far good<br/>
for the next season, it is certainly to<br/>
be regretted, that prices here, and the<br/>
demand abroad are not such, as to pay<br/>
men to buy and export.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese fleet however is evi-<br/>
dently loading with something, and<br/>
one by one the vessels are dropping<br/>
down, and departing on there annual<br/>
visit to China. The long chain of ves-<br/>
sels but a short time ago anchored in<br/>
the river, have nearly all disappeared.<br/>
This must be certainly a relief to ma-<br/>
ny of the commanders, some of whom<br/>
have been laid up for the last half<br/>
year or more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are now enjoying the cotton<br/>
season, and the whole fleet of cotton<br/>
boats from the north, are anchored on<br/>
the left hand side of the river, in front<br/>
of wat Bang lam poo. They are<br/>
long boats of shallow draught, and<br/>
well calculated to ascend the river at<br/>
low water. Anchored with one end to<br/>
the river, and turned up at the stern, and<br/>
stern, they present rather a peculiar<br/>
appearance. We counted over a hund-<br/>
red of these boats the other day, and<br/>
did not get through, and suppose that<br/>
the whole fleet this year will consist of<br/>
about two hundred boats.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So far as we could see the cotton<br/>
trade this year is confined chiefly to<br/>
Hainan, and the small junks from that<br/>
island, which have been lying in the<br/>
river for months, were apparently<br/>
waiting for these boats to arrive, and<br/>
they are now loading up rapidly.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The resume of a week here in such<br/>
times as these, gives but little that is<br/>
interesting, or startling. Some are<br/>
selling out, and evidently preparing to<br/>
leave the place, whilst others to relieve<br/>
the dullness, and monotony, are get-<br/>
ting up yacht clubs, which is perhaps<br/>
a new feature for Bangkok. Several<br/>
regattas have already taken place, and<br/>
more are said to be in contemplation.<br/>
Such an enterprise in this place, if<br/>
properly conducted, may be made<br/>
highly beneficial. Any thing which<br/>
tends to increase the speed of sailing<br/>
craft, and the skill in handling them,<br/>
and at the same time affords whole-<br/>
some exercise, and recreation, is cer-<br/>
tainly commendable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A matter of importance in its bear-<br/>
ing upon the future of the kingdom,<br/>
has transpired this week at the Royal<br/>
Palace. The young Prince Chow<br/>
Fa, heir apparent to the throne, has<br/>
really entered for a time, the holy or-<br/>
ders of the priesthood, without which<br/>
in the estimation of his Royal Father,<br/>
he would not have been fully prepared<br/>
to occupy the throne of Siam. Wed-<br/>
nesday and Thursday were devoted to<br/>
these ceremonies.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Preparation for the Cholera.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In our last issue we published a va-<br/>
luable extract from one of our exchang-<br/>
es on the treatment of Cholera. We<br/>
judge it timely and benevolent to do<br/>
so, as there seems to be much reason<br/>
to fear a visit of that scourge during<br/>
the present season. We hope and fer-<br/>
vently pray that it may please Almigh-<br/>
ty God to avert it from this city and<br/>
kingdom. Yet not having the faith of<br/>
assurance that our prayers will be<br/>
answered in the affirmative, we feel in-<br/>
clined to pursue this road of benevo-<br/>
lence a little further. While we hope<br/>
and pray for exemption from the Cho-<br/>
lera, it seems to us unquestionably<br/>
wise to do what we can by anticipa-<br/>
tion to strip it of its deadly power<br/>
should it come upon us as we fear.<br/>
And it strikes us that the city autho-<br/>
rities should promptly do all they can<br/>
to fortify the city against it. Should<br/>
a Burman or Cochin Chinese army<br/>
threaten to attack the city in the<br/>
course of this summer or in the au-<br/>
tumn, no one could question the wis-<br/>
dom of government in giving great at-<br/>
tention to the work of fortifying the<br/>
city against the treated attack. We<br/>
hear of the Cholera raging in many<br/>
parts of Hindostan and Bengal. And<br/>
the last mail brought intelligence of<br/>
its having broken out in Batavia.<br/>
From the latter city to this there is a<br/>
high way opened for it to come sud-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
denly upon us. Merchant vessels trad-<br/>
ing between that port and this may<br/>
bring it hither any day. Still we do<br/>
not for this reason regard it at all cer-<br/>
tain that it will come on that route,<br/>
nor indeed on any other. The Cho-<br/>
lera has been rife more than once at<br/>
Singapore, if we recollect rightly, and<br/>
did not take passage to this city by<br/>
any of the many trading vessels which<br/>
came from that port. Nevertheless it<br/>
cannot but be wisdom for the citizens<br/>
of Bangkok, and for the city authori-<br/>
ties to take warning and prepare for<br/>
it. Now facts have most thoroughly<br/>
proved the wisdom of guarding cities<br/>
and villages against the Cholera, that<br/>
this disease, terrible as it is, can be<br/>
greatly controlled by suitable precau-<br/>
tionary measures, and that cleanliness<br/>
and perseveringly practiced in any ci-<br/>
ty or hamlet, forms a powerful barrier<br/>
against it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose in the present article to<br/>
call the attention of government, and<br/>
private householders to the impor-<br/>
tance of clearing out all sewers or<br/>
drains about the city. Many of them<br/>
are now so clogged up that they can-<br/>
not disgorge themselves into any canal<br/>
or creek, and hence the filth they con-<br/>
tain becomes more and more concen-<br/>
trated in them and are unquestionably<br/>
the sources of much disease now, and<br/>
would become the very hot beds of<br/>
Cholera should it visit this city. Our<br/>
attention has been called to notice<br/>
particularly one such place in the rear<br/>
of the Portuguese village, adjoining the<br/>
Baptist Mission premises. We are<br/>
glad to learn that through the influ-<br/>
ence of A. J. Moor Esqr. Portuguese<br/>
Consul, and Rev. W. Dean D. D. of<br/>
the Chinese Mission, this most pro-<br/>
bable source of a deadly typhoid fever,<br/>
which has carried off an American<br/>
Missionary, and the wife of a Danish<br/>
Master Mariner, and well nigh took<br/>
the life of two or more unacclimated<br/>
Europeans, has quite recently been<br/>
opened out into the river, so henceforth<br/>
all the flood tides will have free<br/>
access to those sources of fever and<br/>
dysentery, and wash away any pesti-<br/>
ferous influences that would otherwise<br/>
collect in them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Now work like this, not only as<br/>
preparatory for the Cholera but also<br/>
for the promotion of general health,<br/>
should be performed all about the ci-<br/>
ty. There are very many similar sinks<br/>
of filth and sources of disease in this<br/>
great metropolis. The Cholera com-<br/>
ing here, in the course of the summer<br/>
or autumn would find its citizens<br/>
eminently prepared for the display<br/>
of its deadly power. And yet we<br/>
think there is scarcely another city<br/>
within the tropics that might so<br/>
easily be made cleanly as this.<br/>
Though it be situated on a sea-level<br/>
plain it can with little trouble be dai-<br/>
ly washed by the flood tides. It has<br/>
a magnificent body of water running<br/>
through it, and canals traversing all<br/>
parts of it. By far the greater part of<br/>
the citizens of Bangkok have the privi-<br/>
lege of living either on one of the<br/>
banks of the river, or on a bank of a<br/>
canal, or a small ditch daily washed<br/>
by the tides. Those who do not en-<br/>
joy such a privilege can easily make a<br/>
drain from their houses to the nearest<br/>
canal or ditch, where they can have<br/>
the filth which naturally accumulates<br/>
about their dwellings daily washed<br/>
away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the great mass of this people<br/>
are too indolent to be at the trouble<br/>
of making any effort to be cleanly<br/>
about their houses. While they can<br/>
hardly avoid washing their persons<br/>
many times daily for the pleasures of<br/>
bathing, they can endure an unutterable<br/>
amount of filth in and under their<br/>
houses, taking no kind of care to make<br/>
any drain by which it shall ever be<br/>
carried off. What we wish to do now<br/>
is to induce the government to make<br/>
laws by which every householder<br/>
shall be obliged to make at least the<br/>
lower story of his own house clean,<br/>
and keep it clean. To this end it<br/>
must be made a punishable offence to<br/>
throw out their slops and filth where<br/>
there is no drain to carry them away.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This we hold should ever be an im-<br/>
portant part of the care of city autho-<br/>
rities. It is regarded as such in the<br/>
great cities of Europe and America.<br/>
And we hear from all parts of those<br/>
countries that this year, very extraor-<br/>
dinary care is being taken for the<br/>
cleanliness of large cities and towns in<br/>
preparation for a visit from the Chol-<br/>
era. Let the enlightened king of<br/>
Siam follow the example of kings and<br/>
queens and presidents in the western<br/>
world in this regard, and he will be a<br/>
saver of his people indeed, and worthy<br/>
of the greatest name among the kings<br/>
of the Eastern world.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Literature of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
After the Wats, and priests, which<br/>
constitute the schools and school-mas-<br/>
ters of the kingdom, a brief article in<br/>
reference to the language, and litera-<br/>
ture may not be unacceptable. The<br/>
language is evidently one of no very<br/>
ancient origin, and in its more primi-<br/>
tive state, must have consisted chiefly,<br/>
of a few simple monosyllables, and<br/>
was consequently vague, and inex-<br/>
pressive. But as the English language<br/>
has been burdened with additions from<br/>
the Latin, Greek, French &c., so that<br/>
to find the Saxon we must go back to<br/>
some rare old work, which has been<br/>
long out of print, so the Siamese has<br/>
received additions from the Bali,<br/>
Cambodian, Burmese, Peguan, Chinese,<br/>
Laos, and some few words from the<br/>
Sanscrit. But it is also still a ques-<br/>
tion, whether the Saxon has been real-<br/>
ly improved by its numerous additions,<br/>
so the additions to the Siamese really<br/>
do not enrich it, or make it the least<br/>
bit more expressive, but on the other<br/>
hand fill it with pleonasms, so that we<br/>
oftentimes find them using a double<br/>
expression meaning the same thing.<br/>
We saw the other day, wheren gentle-<br/>
man of deserved reputation as a Siam-<br/>
ese scholar, had used in a translation,<br/>
the Bali word Sákara, to adore, to<br/>
esteem, to salute, &c.—and immediate-<br/>
ly after it, the Siamese expression<br/>
náp thiu, meaning the same thing.<br/>
Either one of the expressions alone<br/>
would have been more expressive.<br/>
This is an error however into which<br/>
we are frequently lead, by teachers<br/>
who are desirous to show off their<br/>
learning.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are also two, if not three lan-<br/>
guages. The Court language, and<br/>
phrases strictly speaking, are nothing<br/>
but a transfer of the Bali.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is then the better language in<br/>
use among the Princes, and nobles,<br/>
and still a lower language full of vul-<br/>
garisms in use among the common<br/>
people.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is to be expected therefore, that<br/>
a language such as this, and in a coun-<br/>
try where knowledge has hitherto<br/>
been so little appreciated, would in a<br/>
great measure be devoid of literature.<br/>
Such is the case. Their literary works<br/>
are few, and of an inferior quality.<br/>
Their principle historical work is the<br/>
Pongsawadan, or Siamese history,<br/>
and which is deservedly their best<br/>
work. It commences with the Laos<br/>
king, who ruled in Chieng-rai. It is<br/>
written in rather a vigorous, and<br/>
chaste style, and may be taken as the<br/>
best model of the language. It is the<br/>
Tacitus of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next is the Samkoke,—-a fa-<br/>
bulous history of China. Three noble-<br/>
men, of the royal Counsellors all as-<br/>
pire to the throne, and hence arise a<br/>
series of wars. This work, on account<br/>
of its military bearing, is popular<br/>
among the princes and nobles, and<br/>
many of whom, it is said, after finishing<br/>
the labors of the day have their ser-<br/>
vants read to them at night. What<br/>
Jomini is to the European world, Sam-<br/>
koke is to the Siamese. We don't<br/>
know however that it possesses any<br/>
peculiar literary value. They have al-<br/>
so what they call Rachatirat,—a his-<br/>
tory of Pegu.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Also a number of Medical, and As-<br/>
trological works. There laws too<br/>
have been printed by the Proprietor of<br/>
the Bangkok Recorder, and when<br/>
bound up in European style, form two<br/>
respectable octavo volumes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By far the greatest part of their<br/>
works, are plays or Lacon books.<br/>
These are the most popular among<br/>
the common people. They are most-<br/>
ly written in a kind of verse, and<br/>
some of them are decidedly vulgar.<br/>
Although the Siamese are naturally<br/>
poetical, and can spin love rhymes by<br/>
the yard, yet they have no poetical<br/>
works of any merit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Add to those already mentioned<br/>
their religious books, which are le-<br/>
gion, and we have the principle part<br/>
of the literature of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are much gratified in announcing<br/>
to our readers that the American<br/>
Steam-screw-frigate Shenandoah may<br/>
be expected to arrive here daily.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We also understand that in future,<br/>
American Men-of-war will make fre-<br/>
quent visits to these waters, and in the<br/>
course of six months, it is expected,<br/>
that Admiral Bell, the commander-in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
chief of the East India squadron, will<br/>
pay his respects to the Siamese Go-<br/>
vernment in the Flag ship Hartford,<br/>
accompanied by other ships of the<br/>
squadron.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This certainly is good news as the<br/>
frequent arrivals of American national<br/>
vessels-of-war will tend to enlighten<br/>
this government in regard to the posi-<br/>
tion of the United States, or at least it<br/>
will give them to understand that such<br/>
a nation does really exist.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have again to inform our<br/>
readers that the Editor of the Recorder<br/>
left his residence in this city for Pet-<br/>
chabureo at 10 A.M. on Tuesday the<br/>
17th inst and expects to return before<br/>
the next issue of the paper.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Card.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. ARNAL DUCLOS, French Baker<br/>
at Santa Cruz, desires hereby to apolo-<br/>
gize to his patrons, for the dark colour<br/>
of the bread he has lately been sending<br/>
to them. He would assure them that<br/>
the bread is made of unadulturated<br/>
wheaten flour, faulty chiefly for its<br/>
dark complexion—-that it is the best<br/>
he can at present procure, and that as<br/>
soon as a winter quality can be obtain-<br/>
ed he will send them better bread.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The young Prince Chow Fa, heir<br/>
apparent to the throne of Siam, was<br/>
inducted into the Buddhist priesthood<br/>
with appropriate ceremonies on, Wed-<br/>
nesday and Thursday of this week.<br/>
A number of the European community<br/>
were present.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Died.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the morning of the 17th inst.<br/>
PHYA P'HAI SONGKRAM, of dysentery,<br/>
aged 44 years.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The deceased was a son of Som-<br/>
detch Ong Yai, and half-brother to<br/>
their Excellencies the Prime Minister<br/>
and the Praklang. His office was that<br/>
of a Military commander of the front<br/>
rank, under the second King.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE CHOLERA.—-HALL’S JOURNAL OF<br/>
HEALTH gives the following suggestions<br/>
which, if properly observed, will do much<br/>
toward making the scourge of cholera<br/>
which threatens to attack us next summer,<br/>
much lighter than it otherwise would be.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
1st. Every householder owes it to him-<br/>
self, to his family, to his neighbors, to<br/>
the community in which he resides, to<br/>
have his house, from cellar to garret,<br/>
from the street curb to the rear line of<br/>
his lot, most scrupuously cleansed, by<br/>
sweeping, washing and white-washing.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
2d. Every man who has any authority<br/>
in city or town government should con-<br/>
sider himself bound by the oath of office,<br/>
and by every consideration of humanity,<br/>
to give himself no rest until every street,<br/>
alley, close gutter and sewer is placed in<br/>
a state of as perfect cleanliness as pos-<br/>
sible, and kept so until the frosts of next<br/>
summer come.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
3d. These cleanings should be done<br/>
now in February and March, because, if<br/>
put off till warm weather, the very effort<br/>
necessary for the removal of filth, will only<br/>
tend, in the essential nature of things, to<br/>
hasten the appearance of the disease, to<br/>
increase its malignity and to extend the<br/>
time of its devastations.—-Lo. Co. Nurs.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
WHAT OF THE PRESIDENT'S VETO?
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is a man now in Washington who,<br/>
when President Buchanan vetoed the<br/>
Homestead bill, made a terrible speech<br/>
against that veto, and said:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I have always a great respect for a<br/>
man who fills the place of the President<br/>
of the United States, irrespective of party,<br/>
and it would be very natural for me to<br/>
have more respect for a President of my<br/>
own party than for any one of opposite<br/>
politics. But does the fact of the Pre-<br/>
sident's speaking change the nature and<br/>
character of great principles and truths?<br/>
Does it make wrong right, or right wrong?<br/>
If there is a great fundamental principle<br/>
in this measure, connected with govern-<br/>
ment and the great cause of humanity,<br/>
the fact that he withholds his signature<br/>
does not change my opinion; but if there<br/>
were forty Presidents, with forty assis-<br/>
tants, to write out vetoes, I would stand<br/>
by this bill, and give it the sanction of<br/>
my vote and support.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*{{< news/indent2 >}}*
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I am constrained to say that I look<br/>
upon this objection to the bill as a mere<br/>
quibble on the part of the President, as<br/>
being hard-pressed for some excuse in<br/>
withholding his approval of the measure:<br/>
and his allusion to foreigners in this con-<br/>
nection looks more like the AD CAPTANDUM<br/>
of the more politician and demagogue<br/>
than a grave and sound reason to be of-<br/>
fered by the President of the United<br/>
States in a veto message."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
So spake Andrew Johnson, in the Senate<br/>
of the United States, against a veto by a<br/>
President of his own party! The speech,<br/>
like a fly in amber, is preserved in the<br/>
CONGRESSIONAL GLOBE of June 22, 1860.<br/>
Now, if "the President's speaking" did<br/>
not avail to "change the nature and<br/>
character of great principles and truths"<br/>
in 1860, can it do so in 1866?—-N. Y.<br/>
INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
African Fashions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. Livingstone, in his recently publish-<br/>
ed account of his voyage up the great river<br/>
of Eastern Africa, says the sister of one of<br/>
the chiefs wore eighteen solid brass rings,<br/>
as thick as one's finger, on each leg, and<br/>
a toe of copper under each knee; nineteen<br/>
brass rings on her left arm, and eight of<br/>
brass and copper on her right; also a large<br/>
ivory ring above each elbow, or seventy-<br/>
one rings in all. She had a pretty bead<br/>
neck-lace, and a bead sash encircled her<br/>
Waist. The weight of the brass rings<br/>
around her legs impeded her walking and<br/>
chafed her ankles, but as it was the fashion<br/>
she did not mind the inconvenience, and<br/>
guarded against the pain by putting soft rag<br/>
round the lower rings.<br/>
So much for fashion.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Your Mother is Praying for
You.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Early one evening S.—-said to his<br/>
mother, "Mother, I expect to be absent<br/>
this evening until perhaps a late hour. I<br/>
have made an engagement, with other<br/>
young friends, to attend a ball this even-<br/>
ing; and notwithstanding your strong<br/>
prejudice against that kind of amuse-<br/>
ment, I really hope, mother, in this case<br/>
you will not object to my wishes. I shall<br/>
aim to keep within the bounds of be-<br/>
coming respect for myself and others,<br/>
and you well know it would greatly mar<br/>
my anticipated pleasure to feel that you<br/>
were opposed to my being gratified."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This appeal to his kind mother called<br/>
forth an answer worthy to be imitated by<br/>
all mothers who love and pray for the<br/>
salvation of their children:-—"My son,<br/>
long have I prayed that you might be-<br/>
come a Christian, and thus be happy<br/>
yourself, and a blessing and comfort to<br/>
me as my sun goes down, and my spirit<br/>
passes to its final home ; but I fear that<br/>
I must lie down and die without receiv-<br/>
ing an answer to my many prayers for<br/>
you. If so, I must leave you in the<br/>
hands of God. As to that engagement<br/>
for this evening, I have only to say that<br/>
you well know my wishes, and you are<br/>
old enough to judge correctly as to what<br/>
is right or wrong in the sight of God,<br/>
who will bring you and me into judg-<br/>
ment; and now as you go to meet your<br/>
engagement, remember, my child, when<br/>
amid that gay circle and in the merry<br/>
dance, that YOUR MOTHER IS AT HOME<br/>
PRAYING FOR HER ONLY SON, that he may<br/>
be turned from these fleeting vanities of<br/>
time, to seek those things that are eternal<br/>
in heaven." As he entered the place of<br/>
amusement, he rallied his youthful man-<br/>
hood to meet his companions with cheer-<br/>
fulness, but every countenance in the<br/>
gay circle seemed to say to him, "S—-,"<br/>
your mother is at home praying for you."<br/>
Even the music of the dance seemed to<br/>
echo, "Your mother is at home praying<br/>
for you."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Overwhelmed with these feelings, he<br/>
suddenly took leave of his companions,<br/>
and hastened to his home. As he was<br/>
about entering, he heard her well-known<br/>
voice pleading before God for herself as<br/>
a lonely widow, and for the salvation of<br/>
her dear son. Almost instinctively he<br/>
opened the door, rushed in, and threw<br/>
his arms around his mother, exclaiming,<br/>
"Dear mother, pray on for my poor soul.<br/>
I am sinking in despair. Lord, save or I<br/>
perish !"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It was not long ere that son was led<br/>
by faith to lay hold on Christ.—-Preist
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_2_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Fashionable Dances.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We extract from the ATLANTIC<br/>
MONTHLY the following paragraphs. The<br/>
strictures of the writer are none too<br/>
severe :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What a glaring inconsistency is there<br/>
manifested in the toleration at one time<br/>
of postures which, under any other cir-<br/>
cumstances, would blast a reputation!<br/>
No pure woman would suffer a man to<br/>
retain her hand in his, much less to encir-<br/>
cle her with his arm, in the ordinary re-<br/>
lations of social life; and yet, as the bid-<br/>
ding of fashion, and because the addi-<br/>
tional stimulus of music is superadded,<br/>
she will not only permit these liberties,<br/>
but will remain willingly strained to his<br/>
breast for a quarter of an hour at a time,<br/>
publicly exhibiting herself in a position<br/>
which in itself she virtuously condemns.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Favors which would properly be de-<br/>
nied to the most favorable of her ac-<br/>
quaintances off the dancing floor are<br/>
there accorded freely even to a notorious<br/>
libertine, for no guarantee is required<br/>
from those to whom fashion intrusts the<br/>
persons of her female devotees, further<br/>
than proficiency in an art chiefly acquired<br/>
by young men through association with<br/>
the most degraded of the other sex—all<br/>
mental or moral disqualifications being<br/>
condoned by the single merit of dancing<br/>
well.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Many a young girl who intuitively<br/>
shrinks from the endearments innocently<br/>
proffered by her affianced lover, unthink-<br/>
ingly subjects herself to the contamina-<br/>
ting embrace and irreverent comment of<br/>
debauched witlings, whose every thought<br/>
is a concealed insult. Not that we would<br/>
imply a sweeping censure upon the male<br/>
portion of the community; for many—-<br/>
perhaps most—-are gentlemen, and as<br/>
such, incapable of harboring an idea re-<br/>
pugnant to female purity.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But in so composite a society as ours<br/>
some evil characters are inevitably intro-<br/>
duced; and, even of those whose ante-<br/>
cedents and position should vouch for their<br/>
refinement, there are many whose coarse<br/>
tastes and dissipated courses render their<br/>
contact with virtuous women almost a<br/>
sacrilege.—-Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Studies in Parliament.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
(Continued)
MR. DISRAELI.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As Lord Stanley waxes in impor-<br/>
tance in the House, Mr. Disraeli can-<br/>
not but wane. Both, indeed, are alike<br/>
in one thing-—the perfect and singu-<br/>
lar coldness of their intelligence. But<br/>
Lord Stanley’s intelligence is in the cold<br/>
sense of a man of business, which<br/>
measures everything by a clear and<br/>
visible standard ; Mr. Disraeli’s is the<br/>
cold, superficial insight of a sprite<br/>
which throws a fitful, will-of-the-wisp-<br/>
like gleam on everything, and is bet-<br/>
ter content with producing a pictur-<br/>
esque illusion than discovering a stu-<br/>
pid truth. There is no man who has<br/>
discovered so many marcs’-nests in<br/>
history as Mr. Disraeli-—the sort of<br/>
generalizations which, when we re-<br/>
member them suddenly in solitude,<br/>
make us laugh aloud to ourselves with-<br/>
out even the stimulus of sympathy.<br/>
When Mr. Disraeli brought in his In-<br/>
dia Bill No. 2 in 1858, with that won-<br/>
derful provision (due, no doubt, to<br/>
some such historical generalization of<br/>
his own) directing that a certain num-<br/>
ber of the Indian Councillors should<br/>
be elected by the political constitu-<br/>
encies of five great commercial towns<br/>
—-Belfast, Glasgow, Liverpool, Man-<br/>
chester, and Birmingham—-Lord Pal-<br/>
merston said in the House that when-<br/>
ever a man met a friend in the street<br/>
he found him in an uncontrollable fit of<br/>
laughter, and as soon as he was able<br/>
to speak and explain himself, it was<br/>
always found that he was laughing at<br/>
India Bill No. 2. Well, that is how<br/>
we laugh privately if something sud-<br/>
denly brings to mind one of Mr. Dis-<br/>
raeli’s favourite historical generaliza-<br/>
tions—say, for instance, the statement<br/>
that Charles I., in breaking with his<br/>
Parliament on tonnage and poundage,<br/>
became “the holocaust of direct taxa-<br/>
tion.” No man ever had such a won-<br/>
derful faculty for false generalizations,<br/>
for constructing a wide and novel the-<br/>
ory on the basis of a hundredth part<br/>
of a fact—in short, for what used to<br/>
be expressively called clever “viewi-<br/>
ness.” Now a “viewy” man is not a<br/>
man to lead the Conservative party.<br/>
We can only wonder he has been tol-<br/>
erated by them so long. Mr. Disrae-<br/>
li is a “stranger upon earth,”-—assur-<br/>
edly at least on this part of it; and in-<br/>
deed his intellect is not one to find a<br/>
home anywhere, is not so organized as<br/>
to draw up its sap and nutriment<br/>
through fixed roots at all. His liter-<br/>
ary impressions are quick, bright, and<br/>
picturesque, like a stranger’s impres-<br/>
sion of a new land. He notices much<br/>
that few native intellects would notice,<br/>
just because he is quite unable to take<br/>
for granted what all native intellects<br/>
would take for granted. His assump-<br/>
tions are not those of the English or<br/>
any other people—the Semetic includ-<br/>
ed. Probably there is nothing that<br/>
we can strictly call moral assumption<br/>
in Mr. Disraeli’s mind at all. His in-<br/>
tellect is like a cut flower stuck in the<br/>
earth, and yet, such as it is, it does not<br/>
fade, though fed from no root.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LORD CRANBORNE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is no better debater in the<br/>
House than Lord Cranborne. He re-<br/>
ceives the arguments of his opponents<br/>
on a hard and perfectly inelastic men-<br/>
tal surface, so that they seem to drop<br/>
down like dead weights from the<br/>
shield of his impassive scepticism. A<br/>
perfect self-possession, a studiously<br/>
common place tone in both speech and<br/>
action-—he stands well out on the floor<br/>
of the House in an attitude of charac-<br/>
teristic solidity, and with exactly as<br/>
much composure as if he were talking<br/>
to the Speaker on his own hearthrug,<br/>
with his hands clasped behind him—-<br/>
an incredulous scornfulness, which is<br/>
not quite a sneering manner, held al-<br/>
ways in readiness for interpolated ex-<br/>
planations, a true man of the world's<br/>
disposition to believe that, of alterna-<br/>
tive theories of his opponents' actions,<br/>
the worse is always the more likely to<br/>
be the true one, an adroitness in deduc-<br/>
ing homely inference from admitted<br/>
facts, a vigilant eye for the critical<br/>
point of a discussion, and a keen party<br/>
feeling, are qualities which make Lord<br/>
Cranborne most telling and dangerous<br/>
in reply. He has not, like Lord Stan-<br/>
ley, a judicial intellect, for he is far<br/>
too much imbued with party feeling<br/>
and strong class-prejudices; but of all<br/>
the men of his party, Lord Cranborne<br/>
is probably the one who is best able<br/>
to select-—we will not say either the<br/>
most telling, or the most ingenious<br/>
arguments (for the stupider Conserva-<br/>
tives are often more telling), and Mr.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Disraeli is far more ingenious,) but<br/>
certainly the least vulnerable argu-<br/>
ments against a proposed reform,<br/>
though he is seldom effective in de-<br/>
fence of the threatened abuse.-—The<br/>
Friend of India.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
Carlyle at Edinburgh.—-Mr<br/>
Conway. in a letter to the Common-<br/>
wealth, gives us this picture of the<br/>
great Scotchman, as he appeared during<br/>
the delivery of his address before the<br/>
faculty and students of Edinburgh Uni-<br/>
versity :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“When Mr. Carlyle made his appear-<br/>
ance, the cheers with which he was greet-<br/>
ed, in repeated long surges, were calcul-<br/>
ated to amuse one who remembered those<br/>
old denunciations of ‘tremendous cheers.’<br/>
Carlyle seemed, indeed, rather astounded,<br/>
and I am sure was asking himself, ‘Have<br/>
I done anything wrong, that I am re-<br/>
ceiving these plaudits?’ He stood for<br/>
a while, as if in wonder; and he was a<br/>
royal-looking man. He had on the Uni-<br/>
versity’s Lord-Rector’s robes, with deep<br/>
and wide sleeves of rich crimson velvet,<br/>
and it was amazing how he became them.<br/>
Above them was the face, full of grim<br/>
humor and of silent force, of the nine-<br/>
teenth century John Knox. It was an<br/>
impressive scene. Scotland’s leading uni-<br/>
versity crowning Scotland’s greatest liv-<br/>
ing son! The youth of nineteen, who,<br/>
with flaming eye and words full of feel-<br/>
ing, presented to the Vice-Chancellor, as<br/>
the elect of his fellow-students, ‘the<br/>
greatest living Scotchman,’ who, over<br/>
fifty years before, had left their halls,<br/>
seemed to touch Carlyle with every word,<br/>
and he arose and bowed solemnly and low<br/>
to the young man. He then threw off the<br/>
fine robes which were put on him to be<br/>
spoken, with a gravity which sent the<br/>
ripple of a smile around, and coming for-<br/>
ward, began the wonderful address. I<br/>
have never listened to an address of<br/>
which so much was lost by being put up-<br/>
on paper. You will see the good hits,<br/>
the wise sayings, the reporter’s notes of<br/>
‘applause and laughter;’ but you cannot<br/>
get the eloquent blood flaming up the<br/>
man’s cheek, the depth of feeling in his<br/>
kindled eye, the impressive tenderness of<br/>
his voice, and the drolleries which came<br/>
out! Without the least action of arm,<br/>
or hand, or body, standing motionless,<br/>
there was a whole dramatic company re-<br/>
presented in his tones and the expressions<br/>
of his face. His humor played along<br/>
every lineament of his face, like sheet-<br/>
lightning, then gathered itself anon into<br/>
bolts, and struck around us with great<br/>
crashes.”—-N. Y. INDEPENDENT.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How People Take Cold.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prevalence of colds has again<br/>
induced the query so often agitated as<br/>
to the immediate cause of the "cold<br/>
in the head" "the cold in the throat."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gentleman who endeavored to trace<br/>
the cause of his cold, came to the con-<br/>
clusion that he caught it going to bed<br/>
in his bare feet. The real cause of<br/>
many colds may be attributed to the<br/>
long talks which people indulge in<br/>
on the corner of the streets. One<br/>
of Boston's most celebrated physicians<br/>
now an octogenarian, when stopped in<br/>
the street invariably remarks: "I will<br/>
talk if you will walk." This should<br/>
be a hint to button-holding friends.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Under Your Hat.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In this country every man of sound<br/>
mind is a capitalist. You, Sir Reader<br/>
of the thread-bare coat, and vacuous<br/>
wallet deny it utterly. You insist that<br/>
your brain is healthy and well furnish-<br/>
ed, but intimate with a sneer that if any<br/>
conjurer will make discovery of your<br/>
capital, you will doff your capless hat<br/>
to him, and be his to command for<br/>
evermore. Sir, put on your rusty bear-<br/>
or, and we will tell you where your<br/>
capital is Right under it. We will<br/>
suppose there is common sense, a fair<br/>
stock of worldly knowledge, and plen-<br/>
ty of energy within the circle of felt<br/>
that you have just crowned yourself<br/>
withal. That's capital—" working<br/>
capital" of the best kind,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If you don't think so, you are over<br/>
modest and the sooner you get rid of<br/>
your diffidence the better for you and<br/>
yours. Why, man, such a head is<br/>
better than the philosopher's stone. It<br/>
is an engine only requiring to be set<br/>
at work, to procure you all the com-<br/>
forts and enjoyments that a rational<br/>
being can desire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As to wealth—-its elements are lying<br/>
in their crude state on every side of<br/>
you, and only require persevering<br/>
manipulation to convert them into the<br/>
circulating medium. Indigent! With<br/>
brains and health you have no right<br/>
to be indigent in a country whose<br/>
magnificent resources are out of all<br/>
proportion to the number of heads<br/>
and hands there are to develop them.<br/>
Fifty roads are open to you. Take<br/>
the one suits you best and push ahead.<br/>
But you must push not loiter. Take<br/>
this piece of homely advice, and our<br/>
word for it, your coat hereafter shall<br/>
be of glossy broadcloth with all acces-<br/>
sories to match, don't lean on friends,<br/>
don't borrow, don't wait for dead<br/>
men's shoes, don't tarry for something<br/>
to turn up, or ten to one it will be the<br/>
world's nose at your lack of pluck and<br/>
industry. Employ the capital under<br/>
your hat. Work it wisely, honestly,<br/>
resolvedly, and the returns are sure to<br/>
be satisfactory.-—Exchange.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Devil Right.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Dr. H-—, who is pastor of an orthodox<br/>
church, had been for some time annoyed<br/>
by the forwardness of a lay-brother to<br/>
“speak” whenever an opportunity was<br/>
offered, to the frequent exclusion of those<br/>
whose remarks had a greater tendency to<br/>
edification. This had been carried so far<br/>
that the pastor, whenever he stated that<br/>
an “opportunity would be offered for<br/>
any brother to give an exhortation,” had<br/>
always a secret dread of the loquacious<br/>
member.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On one special occasion, the latter<br/>
prefaced a prosy, incoherent harangue<br/>
with an account of a controversy he had<br/>
been carrying on with the great adver-<br/>
sary. “My friends,” said he, “the devil<br/>
and I have been fighting for more than<br/>
twenty minutes. He told me not to<br/>
speak to-night, but I determined I would.<br/>
He said some of the rest could speak<br/>
better than I, but still I felt that I could<br/>
not keep silent. He even whispered that<br/>
I spoke too often, and that nobody want-<br/>
ed to hear me; but I was not to be put<br/>
down that way—and now I have gained<br/>
the victory, I must tell you all that is in<br/>
my heart.” Then followed the tedious<br/>
harangue aforesaid.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As they were coming out of the ses-<br/>
sion-room, the good pastor inclined his<br/>
head so that his mouth approached the<br/>
ear of the militant member, and whisper-<br/>
ed, “Brother, I THINK THE DEVIL WAS<br/>
RIGHT!”—-PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Comfort after Loss.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On the 10th of last February a young<br/>
missionary, Charles H. Lloyd, died at<br/>
Umvoti Station, in South Africa. He<br/>
was thirty-two years old. He had been<br/>
on his field barely two years. It seemed<br/>
strange to call him away so soon. After<br/>
it was settled that he was to die, he said<br/>
to his fellow-labourer—-"Do you remem-<br/>
ber, Mr. Grout, that there is a little tree<br/>
standing about thirty feet from the door<br/>
of your new chapel? Bury me there.<br/>
Mrs. Lloyd will inclose the spot. Your<br/>
congregation will see it as they pass.<br/>
They will remember that the dead man<br/>
came to preach to them." The request<br/>
was complied with. All about the village,<br/>
by the river bank, and in the fields, the<br/>
little natives could be heard ringing the<br/>
songs Mr. Lloyd had taught them during<br/>
his brief stay. And what did Mrs. Lloyd<br/>
do? Did she sit down and wring her<br/>
hands, and nurse her grief? Let us see.<br/>
On July 10th, Mr. Grout wrote from<br/>
Umvoti:—-"Yesterday was one of our<br/>
bright days." It was bright, because<br/>
thirteen new members were added to the<br/>
little church. And among the occasions<br/>
of this increase, he mentions this:—-<br/>
"Since the death of Mr. Lloyd, Mrs.<br/>
Lloyd has taken hold of our work with<br/>
both her hands. I attribute, in good<br/>
part, to her labours the result. Her pra-<br/>
yers and labours have been literally "in<br/>
season, and out of season.""—-Priest
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Purity of Character
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Over the beauty of the plum and a-<br/>
pricot, there grows a bloom and beauty<br/>
more exquisite than the fruit itself—a<br/>
soft delicate flush that overspreads its<br/>
blushing cheek. Now if you strike your<br/>
hand over that and it is once gone, it is<br/>
gone forever, for it never grows but once.<br/>
The flower that hangs in the morning,<br/>
impearled with dew—-arrayed as no<br/>
queenly woman ever was arrayed with<br/>
jewels—-once shake it, so that the beads<br/>
roll off, and you may sprinkle water over<br/>
it as you please, yet it never can be made<br/>
again what it was when the dew fell<br/>
silently upon it from heaven! On a<br/>
frosty morning you may see the panes of<br/>
glass covered with landscapes, mountains,<br/>
lakes and trees, blended in a beautiful<br/>
fantastic picture. Now lay your hand<br/>
upon the glass, and by the scratch of<br/>
your finger, or by the warmth of the palm,<br/>
all the delicate tracery will be obliterated.<br/>
So there is in youth a beauty and purity<br/>
of character, which when once touched<br/>
and defiled' can never be restored a<br/>
fringe more delicate than frostwork, and<br/>
which when torn and broken, will never<br/>
be re-embroidered. A man who has spot-<br/>
ted and soiled his garments in youth,<br/>
though he may seek to make them white<br/>
again, can never wholly do it, even were<br/>
he to wash them with his tears. When<br/>
a young man leaves his father's house<br/>
with the blessing of his mother's tears<br/>
still wet upon his forehead, if he<br/>
once looses that early purity of charac-<br/>
ter, it is a loss that he never can make<br/>
whole again. Such is the consequence<br/>
of crime. Its effects cannot be eradicated;<br/>
it can only be forgiven—HENRY WARD<br/>
BEECHER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Art of Being Polite.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
First and foremost don't try to be<br/>
polite, it will spoil all. If you keep over-<br/>
whelming your guests with ostentatious<br/>
entreaties to make themselves at home,<br/>
they will begin to wish they were there.<br/>
Let them find out that you are happy to<br/>
see them by your actions rather than<br/>
words. Always remember to let bashful<br/>
people alone at first. It is the only way<br/>
to set them at their ease.-—Trying to draw<br/>
them out has sometimes the contrary<br/>
effect of driving them out—of the house!<br/>
Leading the conversation is a dangerous<br/>
experiment. Better follow in its wake,<br/>
and if you want to endear yourself to<br/>
talkers, learn to listen well. Never make<br/>
a fuss about anything—-never talk about<br/>
yourself—-always preserve perfect com-<br/>
posure, no matter what solecisms or blun-<br/>
ders others may commit. Remember<br/>
that it is a foolish proceeding to lament<br/>
that you cannot afford to your guests a<br/>
better house, or furniture or viands. It<br/>
is fair to presume that the visit is to you,<br/>
and not to these surroundings. Give<br/>
people a pleasant impression of themsel-<br/>
ves, and they will be pretty sure to go<br/>
away with a pleasant impression of your<br/>
qualities. On just such slender wheels as<br/>
these the whole fabric of society turns;<br/>
it is your business, then, to keep them in<br/>
revolving order.-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
How to Control the
Lower Nature.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The true art of moral culture is to<br/>
balance extravagant tendencies by quick-<br/>
ening those which are languid. Growth<br/>
is a safer means of producing harmony<br/>
than repression." How often have I felt-<br/>
and said this! You cannot descend to the<br/>
regions of the lower nature, and wrestle<br/>
with success there. You must go above<br/>
and fight them as Perseus fought the<br/>
dragon that would have destroyed And-<br/>
romeda, on wings in the air. The lower<br/>
is subdued, - not by repression, but by<br/>
making it simply an instrument of the<br/>
higher. No fasting, for instance, will<br/>
make the soul pure; but a noble attach-<br/>
ment will keep all base feelings in check,<br/>
and ennoble them. By the by, that is a<br/>
better remedy than Cato's; that was the<br/>
very essence of St. Paul's system; that<br/>
was the gospel according to him. Not<br/>
repression, coercion, law—that only pro-<br/>
duces dreadful conflict. "Ye cannot do<br/>
the things ye would."—"Walk in the<br/>
spirit," - the higher life of loftier motiv-<br/>
es—"and then ye will not fulfill the lusts<br/>
of the flesh;" and that is true, particular-<br/>
ly, as well as generally. No courtmartial<br/>
or provost marshal's could[?] would stop<br/>
thieving in a regiment or make a coward<br/>
brave; but an esprit de corps and honor<br/>
have done it again and again.—ROBERT-<br/>
SON'S LIFE AND LETTERS.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Natural Eloquence.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Says a clergyman:—-"At an early stage<br/>
of my ministry, I spent some time in the<br/>
low country of South Carolina in mission-<br/>
ary service. Most of the negroes in the<br/>
region where I lived were very ignorant,<br/>
and as vicious as ignorant; for there is a<br/>
natural affinity between ignorance and<br/>
vice. But there were some striking excep-<br/>
tions; some who were evidently 'taught of<br/>
God.' Being ignorant of the technical<br/>
language of the Scripture, 'they spake as<br/>
the Spirit gave them utterance.' Such a<br/>
one I overtook when riding some forty<br/>
miles to exchange with my nearest brother.<br/>
After remarking upon the weather, a stand-<br/>
ing topic, I introduced the subject of relig-<br/>
ion, and as death was a matter of common<br/>
interest, I spoke of the importance of being<br/>
prepared to die. 'Yes, massa, when the<br/>
wicked man come to die, then he be scar'd;<br/>
he groan like a cow, he hollow like a bull;<br/>
his eyes stick out like two coal fire; but<br/>
when the Christian come to die, he ain't<br/>
scar'd at all—just like snuff of candle gone<br/>
out.'
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"With this power of illustration, what<br/>
an impressive preacher this poor slave, so<br/>
rich with wealth earth cannot give, might<br/>
have become if suitably educated for the<br/>
ministry."—-PRESBYTERIAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE was read in<br/>
China forty-three days after it was read<br/>
in Washington. It was telegraphed from<br/>
Washington to San Francisco, and carri-<br/>
ed thence to China by a sailing vessel,<br/>
that made the remarkably quick passage<br/>
of forty days
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ANOTHER POINT OF DIFFERENCE.-—The<br/>
President has recently ordered the remo-<br/>
val of a prominent Postmaster in Indiana,<br/>
who refuses to abdicate until his succes-<br/>
sor has been confirmed by the Senate.<br/>
That body will probably not do so, and<br/>
if not done the Johnson appointee will<br/>
appeal to the United States Court to put<br/>
him in the place; and the question will<br/>
then be settled, whether the President<br/>
possesses the right to remove an office-<br/>
holder and put another in his place with-<br/>
out the consent of the Senate, while that<br/>
body is in session.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE SUBMARINE TELEGRAPHIC cable<br/>
connecting Vancouver's Island, in the<br/>
Pacific, with the mainland, was completed<br/>
last week, and found to work success-<br/>
fully. The event was celebrated with much<br/>
enthusiasm in the island, and in Oregon<br/>
and British America.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
UNITED STATES BONDS—-The confi-<br/>
dence of Europeans in them has been gain-<br/>
ing so rapidly that now they even prefer<br/>
these securities in preference to their own<br/>
At home, the supply of Gold-Bearing<br/>
Bonds is very limited, and it is with difficul-<br/>
ty that large orders can be filled. It is,<br/>
therefore, predicted that with an easy<br/>
money market United States securities<br/>
will soon advance to a point beyond the<br/>
highest yet reached, which was 114, early<br/>
in 1864. Should foreigners continue to<br/>
hold our Bonds as they have in the past<br/>
a heavy rise must inevitably take place,<br/>
but, should large quantities return, they<br/>
would create a check to any further ad-<br/>
vance. It is a gratifying fact that one<br/>
year from the close of our civil strife we<br/>
are able to state, that in a financial panic<br/>
abroad United States securities ONLY<br/>
have remained firm, while all other Na-<br/>
tional Bonds have fallen heavily, some,<br/>
in fact, lower than at any time since the<br/>
Crimean War.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
REVENGE.—-A story is told of the re-<br/>
venge taken by a Nantucket ship-master<br/>
against a United States Consul, who was<br/>
very rarely found in his office, although<br/>
upon his sign were these words, “In from<br/>
ten to one.” The indignant captain, after<br/>
trying to find the consul several days with-<br/>
out success, took a paint brush and alter-<br/>
ed the official’s sign, so that it read, “TEN<br/>
TO ONE that he is not in.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GENUINE ELOQUENCE.—-There are no<br/>
people in the world with whom eloquence<br/>
is so universal as with the Irish. When<br/>
Leigh Ritchie was traveling in Ireland,<br/>
he passed a man who was a painful spec-<br/>
tacle of pallor, squalor, and raggedness.<br/>
His heart smote him, and he turned back.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“If you are in want,” said Ritchie<br/>
“why don’t you beg?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Surely, it’s begging I am, yer honor.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“You didn’t say a word.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Of course not, yer honor, but see<br/>
how the skin is spakin’ through the trow-<br/>
sers! and the bones cryin’ out through<br/>
me skin! Look at me sunken cheeks, and<br/>
the famine that’s starin’ in me eyes! Man<br/>
alive, isn’t it beggin’ I am with a thous-<br/>
and tongues?”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WANTS THE “SIDEBOARDS” ALSO.—<br/>
The editor of the ROME (N. Y.) CITIZEN<br/>
recently had a wheel-barrow stolen. He<br/>
intimated in the next issue of his paper<br/>
that the thief had better come after the<br/>
sides, since they were no longer of use.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next day the following note was<br/>
sent to the office :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent4 >}}“Rome april 18, 1866.<br/>
{{< news/text >}}
“Mister Sanford deer ser i seen a no-<br/>
tis in yure Paper That sumboddy Stole<br/>
yure Whelebarrow i Kuwwed that be<br/>
Fore i seen it in the paper you sed That<br/>
if The Man what Had it did not want to<br/>
fetch it Back you would let him have<br/>
The side Boards if you will leave side<br/>
Boards right in frunt of the flower and<br/>
food store to Morrow nite I will caul and<br/>
git them and mutch obligd the wheel was<br/>
Brok But i got it fixt i pade 2 shillin to<br/>
git it fixt could you leve a 25 cent stamp<br/>
With the side Boards where I can find it<br/>
i shell Want the Bords by frida morning<br/>
fur i want to wheel some gravvle.<br/>
yures Trueley.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE HOLY FATHER.-—The French Legi-<br/>
timist UNION gives the text of the reply<br/>
made by the Pope the other day to an ad-<br/>
dress presented to him in the name of a<br/>
vast number of strangers now sojourning<br/>
in Rome. What above all struck his hear-<br/>
ers, it is reported, on this occasion, was the<br/>
“majestie rebuke” delivered by the Pope<br/>
to those “Catholies, whether lay or eccle-<br/>
siastic,” who have the pretension to offer<br/>
him advice, or show him the path he ought<br/>
to pursue. “I alone,” he said to such,<br/>
“despite my unworthiness, am the succes-<br/>
sor of the Apostles, the Vicar of Jesus<br/>
Christ; I alone have the mission to guide<br/>
and direct the barque of Peter; I am the<br/>
way, the truth, and the life. They who<br/>
are with me are with the Church; they<br/>
who are not with me are out of the Church<br/>
—they are out of the way, the truth, and<br/>
the life. Let men well understand this,<br/>
that they be not deceived or led astray by<br/>
any DISSANT Catholies, who desire and teach<br/>
something quite different from what the<br/>
Head of the Church desires and teaches.”<br/>
The Pope, it is added, was “full of dignity<br/>
and grandeur” when he pronounced these<br/>
words.—-WEEKLY SCOTSMAN.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_3_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
PUBLIC AUCTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE undersigned wishing to<br/>
close their business in this<br/>
place, will offer at Public Auction<br/>
on Friday next, July 27th inst. at<br/>
12 o'clock, on the premises adjoin-<br/>
ing Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Fine Fast Sailing Brig<br/>
"FAH KEE," as she now lies.<br/>
She has had extensive repairs such<br/>
as caulking, felting, and a new<br/>
suit of yellow metal, also new<br/>
Teak Decks, Rudder &c. &c. &c.<br/>
She is 304 tons Register and 2½<br/>
years old, and carries about 7000<br/>
piculs on 11 ft. 3 inches water. She<br/>
can be masted at a small expense<br/>
and got ready for sea. And is a<br/>
desirable vessel, for Fish, Lumber,<br/>
or any other cargo to any part of<br/>
the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terms of sale made know at the<br/>
time of sale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 19th July, 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Rothschild and Girard.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The insufficiency of mere wealth alone<br/>
to confer happiness is strikingly illus-<br/>
trated in the Life of Nathan Myers Roth-<br/>
schild, the Jew, who died in London some<br/>
thirty or forty years ago, one of the most<br/>
devoted worshippers that ever laid a<br/>
withered soul on the altar of Mammon.<br/>
For years he wielded the purse of the<br/>
world, opening and closing it to kings<br/>
and Emperors as he listed; and, upon<br/>
certain occasions, was supposed to have<br/>
more influence in Great Britian than the<br/>
proudest and wealthiest of its nobles—<br/>
perhaps more influence than the houses<br/>
of Parliament taken together. He once<br/>
purchased bills of the government, in a<br/>
single day, to the amount of $20,000,000;<br/>
and with the profits of a single loan, pur-<br/>
chased an estate at the cost of $750,000.<br/>
Yet, with all his colossal wealth, he was a<br/>
miserable man, and, with sorrowful earn-<br/>
estness, once exclaimed to a gentleman<br/>
who was congratulating him on the gor-<br/>
geous magnificence of his palatial man-<br/>
sion, and thence inferring that he was<br/>
happy:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Happy! me happy!”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The late Stephen Girard, when sur-<br/>
rounded by immense wealth, and suppos-<br/>
ed to be taking supreme delight in his<br/>
accumulation, wrote thus to a friend:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“As to myself, I live like a galley slave,<br/>
constantly occupied, and often passing<br/>
the night without sleeping. I am wrap-<br/>
ped in a labyrinth of affairs, and worn<br/>
out with care. I do not value fortune.<br/>
The love of labor is my highest emotion.<br/>
When I rise in the morning, my only ef-<br/>
fort is to labor so hard during the day<br/>
that, when night comes, I may be enabled<br/>
to sleep soundly.”
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Dangerous Guides.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a sad truth, and one to be heeded,<br/>
that the women who to-day ordain the<br/>
prevailing mode in Paris, are not the wo-<br/>
men whom it is sweet or wise to imitate.<br/>
To them we owe that bizarre and sense-<br/>
less display of the last few months ; the<br/>
taste for morocco and ugly ornaments ; the<br/>
use of tinsels, cameos and bullion ; the<br/>
tendency to extravagant and foolish out-<br/>
lay. It is women who can attract and<br/>
keep the attention of men only through<br/>
continual surprises of daring toilettes—-<br/>
women without the sweetest womanliness<br/>
and grace of culture—-graduates of a<br/>
school, by no means pure—-who study<br/>
dress as a bad means to a worse end—-<br/>
who are devising the pronounced styles<br/>
and OUTRÉ shapes at which our belles to-<br/>
day demurre, though certain to-morrow<br/>
to accept them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In these days, when hotels and steam-<br/>
boats display such miracles of upholstery<br/>
and decoration as private fortunes cannot<br/>
compass ; when those accessories of wealth<br/>
whose only value is the ease and culture<br/>
they bring, are flaunted by vulgar people<br/>
as an offensive ostentation ; when elabor-<br/>
ate and costly dress is the armor and the<br/>
badge of a class of women who are mer-<br/>
cenary, vain, frivolous, and unwomanly,<br/>
do these possessions seem things eagerly<br/>
to be desired ? Reflect whether a man<br/>
may toil for gold, year after year, and<br/>
not lose something of his manliness ;<br/>
whether a woman may give her time, and<br/>
thought, and care to dress, and visiting,<br/>
and the pretentious ordering of her<br/>
household, and not lose something of her<br/>
womanliness. And when you have re-<br/>
flected, buy the muslin instead of the silk<br/>
and the grenadine, put the money saved<br/>
into United States securities, or make any<br/>
other wise use of it, and be happy.—-TRI-<br/>
BUNE.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Thrive Slowly.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is dangerous for a man to grow rich<br/>
and strong faster than he grows good.<br/>
I do not think it is wise to grow rich too<br/>
fast, at any rate. I do not mean to say<br/>
there may not be men of such stature<br/>
that they can grow rich rapidly without<br/>
being hurt by their riches; but generally<br/>
God makes the road to wealth one of<br/>
care, so that the process is one of educa-<br/>
tion, and so that, when a man has attained<br/>
his competence, he has gone through that<br/>
which is a strengthener, a patience, and<br/>
which prevents his being much injured<br/>
by it. But when men come into the pos-<br/>
session of wealth without having earned it,<br/>
it are apt to be injured by it, be-<br/>
cause they have not received that educa-<br/>
tion which is necessary to enable them to<br/>
administer it properly.—BEECHER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Creator Still at work.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prof. Clark, of Harvard College, has<br/>
written a book entitled, Mind in Nature,<br/>
in which he claims that the processes of<br/>
creation are going on as really as “in the<br/>
beginning.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He regards law as the only ordinary<br/>
mode of action of the Father of life, who<br/>
he believes not only created all organized<br/>
beings at the first, but repeats the act of<br/>
creation from time to time as conditions<br/>
require. All living beings, he tells us,<br/>
are composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxy-<br/>
gen and nitrogen combined not in accord-<br/>
ance with chemical affinities, but with a<br/>
vital affinity or principle of life which is<br/>
the direct gift of God. The simplest<br/>
forms of animal life are not chemically<br/>
distinguishable from a drop of gum or<br/>
starch, yet they not only take in food but<br/>
enjoy the power of voluntary motion.<br/>
They perish in a heat less than that of<br/>
boiling water, and yet have been repro-<br/>
duced abundantly in flasks of beef juice,<br/>
dissolved gelatine and sugar, long heated<br/>
to the boiling point, and deprived of all<br/>
air which has not been thoroughly burn-<br/>
ed by passing slowly over red hot iron.<br/>
The flasks are closely sealed and in a few<br/>
days living organisms are invariably de-<br/>
veloped, a repetition of the act of crea-<br/>
tion in our own time and under our own<br/>
eyes. Still as of old "in the beginning,"<br/>
on the very threshold of life, "the spirit<br/>
of God moves upon the face of the wa-<br/>
ters." Mr. Clark alludes to the fact that<br/>
"when a pond or stream or a whole tract<br/>
of country dries up, as oftentimes happen<br/>
in the summer months, as a natural conse-<br/>
quence all the animals and plants in it<br/>
which are dependent upon water for their<br/>
existence, die for want of their natural<br/>
element; but when the rains of autumn<br/>
have refilled these streams and ponds, the<br/>
aquatic animals appear again," and this<br/>
in numbers and with a rapidity for which<br/>
no lingering eggs or germs can reasonably<br/>
account.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
EXCITING SCENE AT A MENAGERIE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
While Wombwell's Menagerie was<br/>
being exhibited at Stirling, D'Avey, the<br/>
lion hunter, entered the den with the<br/>
performing group of lions, when he<br/>
was placed in rather an alarming posi-<br/>
tion by one of the lionesses suddenly<br/>
turning round upon him, and seizing<br/>
him by the left leg. D'Avey, with<br/>
great presence of mind, seized his rifle,<br/>
and brought it down with full force<br/>
upon the lioness's head, breaking the<br/>
stock of the rifle in two, and freeing<br/>
himself from the grasp of the lioness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the next performance, the lion hun-<br/>
ter again entered the den, when the<br/>
lioness immediately flew at him a second<br/>
time. D'Avey was well prepared for<br/>
her, being armed with a heavy stick,<br/>
when a severe struggle ensued as to<br/>
who was to be the master, the lioness<br/>
repeatedly flying at D'Avey, and he<br/>
meeting each charge and driving her<br/>
back, until she finally settled down in<br/>
a corner completely cowed and sub-<br/>
dued. The fight lasted several minutes,<br/>
and caused a good deal of excitement<br/>
in the menagerie, which was densely<br/>
crowded at the time. D'Avey escaped<br/>
with no further injury than a slight<br/>
flesh wound and a torn dress.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Somebody describes a dinner party<br/>
as “a hospitable attempt upon your<br/>
life.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—He who lives for himself alone<br/>
lives for a mean fellow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Why does a duck lift up its head<br/>
under water? Answer—For divers<br/>
reasons.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Lay by a good store of patience,<br/>
but put it where you can find it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—The three degrees of comparison<br/>
in mining-—Mine—-miner-—minus.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—It is exceedingly bad husbandry<br/>
to harrow up the feelings of your wife.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—That sincerity which is not Char-<br/>
itable proceeds from a charity which<br/>
is not sincere.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Why is President Johnson like<br/>
Chimborazo? Because he’s the great-<br/>
est of all the Andes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Be true to your friend; never<br/>
speak of his faults to show your own<br/>
discrimination.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—There are three things in this<br/>
world that deserve no quarter,—hypo-<br/>
crisy, pharisaism, and tyranny.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Dr. Chapin says: “The cause<br/>
that never made a fanatic never pro-<br/>
duced a martyr.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—How to become “small by de-<br/>
grees.” Get dubbed D. D. or L. L.<br/>
D., by some University.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—If the memory is weak, do not<br/>
overload it, nor fill it with fooleries;<br/>
charge it only with useful matter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—We may be right or wrong in our<br/>
choice of a hero, but the enthusiasm<br/>
which takes us out of ourselves, and<br/>
costs us something must do us good.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—A westerner describing a gale of<br/>
wind, says “a white dog while attempt-<br/>
ing to weather the gale, was caught<br/>
with mouth wide open, and turned<br/>
completely inside out.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A young lady explained to a print-<br/>
er her idea of the distinction between<br/>
printing and publishing, thus: “You<br/>
may print a kiss upon my cheek but,<br/>
you mustn’t publish it.” The young<br/>
man immediately signified his un-<br/>
derstanding by giving her a smack on<br/>
the lips which startled every one in<br/>
the neighborhood, and showed that<br/>
printing and publishing are very<br/>
nearly synonymous terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-19_4_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Correction.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the Bang-<br/>
kok Calendar for 1866, in May,<br/>
June, August and October, for<br/>
High read Low, and for Low read<br/>
High.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-15_4_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HYDRAULIC
PACKING PRESS
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The undersigned begs to<br/>
announce to the merchants of<br/>
Bangkok that he has a hy-<br/>
draulic packing press ready<br/>
for packing, any article such<br/>
as Cotton, Hides, Hemp &c.<br/>
placed in a vast granite Go-<br/>
down in the Portuguese Con-<br/>
sulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Apply to the Soda-water<br/>
Manufacturer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
M. CORDIERO.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 15th March 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-03-29_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
HONG CHIANG ENG & Co.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
GOH TING WAN,
—Ship Chandlers and general Sales.—
September 1865.
The Newest established in Bangkok
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
——FOR SALE——
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Bolt Canvas.</td>
 <td>Copper Sheeting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Twine. Buntings.</td>
 <td>Yellow Metals.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Blocks.</td>
 <td>Zinc.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Tar.</td>
 <td>Nails.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Paints.</td>
 <td>Iron.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Oils.</td>
 <td>Chains.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Manilla Rope.</td>
 <td>Anchors.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Coir Rope.</td>
 <td>Cables.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Europe Rope.</td>
 <td>Hooks.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A variety of Merchandises stores,<br/>
provisions, and every other articles<br/>
necessary for furnishing ships etc<br/>
which will be sold cheap, for cash, on<br/>
their premises at Chow-Su, Kuang<br/>
Sue's Brick Buildings, cross the British<br/>
Consul on the opposite Bank of the<br/>
River.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Bangkok 29th March 1866
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Ship Chandlers.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & CO.
Ship Chandlers, Auctioneers,
and Commission Agents.
ESTABLISHED MARCH 1st 1861.
Situated near the Roman
Catholic Church, Kwak-Kwai.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-17_4_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE subscriber begs to inform<br/>
the public of Bangkok that<br/>
he has established himself at Kaw-<br/>
kwai, on the New Road, as a<br/>
Chronometer and Watch maker,<br/>
where every discription of watches,<br/>
clocks, metalic chronometers, ther-<br/>
mometers, and compasses will be<br/>
promptly and carefully repaired.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
F. H. WoRLKEs
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BANGKOK MAY 17th 1866. (3 m.)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-12_4_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ALL persons having any de-<br/>
mands on the undersigned,<br/>
will present them for payment,<br/>
and all persons indebted to the<br/>
undersigned, are requested to<br/>
make payment, on or before, the<br/>
15th of August, or the same will<br/>
be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
VIRGIN & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCOIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
