---
linkTitle: 'October 4th, 1866'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - October 4th, 1866'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); October 4th'
date: 2025-12-13T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 62
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, THURSDAY, October 4th, 1866.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 39.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-20_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CHURCH SERVICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THERE is preaching in the English language<br/>
every Sabbath day at 4 P. M. in the Protes-<br/>
tant Chapel, situated on the bank of the river,<br/>
adjoining the premises of the BORNEO COMPANY<br/>
LIMITED.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All are earnestly invited to attend, and there<br/>
is never any want of room.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A social prayer and conference meeting is<br/>
held weekly at the house of the person who<br/>
is to preach in the Protestant Chapel the<br/>
following Sabbath day, to which all are invit-<br/>
ed. The hour of prayer is 4 P. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Protestant Missionaries supply the pul-<br/>
pit in alphabetical rotation.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
The Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Weekly journal will be issued from the<br/>
printing office of the American Missionary<br/>
Association, at the mouth of the Canal,<br/>
"Klong Bangkok Yai." It will contain such<br/>
Political, Literary, Scientific, Commercial, and<br/>
Local Intelligence, as shall render it worthy<br/>
of the general patronage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Recorder will be open to Correspon-<br/>
dents subject to the usual restrictions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Proprietor will not be responsible<br/>
for the sentiments of his correspondents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No communication will be admitted un-<br/>
less accompanied by the name of the Cor-<br/>
respondent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
No rejected manuscript will be returned<br/>
unless as a special favor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>YEARLY IN ADVANCE</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">$16,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HALF YEARLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9,00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>QUARTERLY</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">4,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>EXTRA COPIES to SUBSCRIBERS.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>{{< news/indent1 >}}"{{< news/indent2 >}}" Non do.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">0,45</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
TERMS OF ADVERTISING.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Prepaid advertisements under three months<br/>
for the first insertion, ten lines or half a square<br/>
and under, One Dollar, and each additional<br/>
line, Five Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Subsequent insertions, SEVENTY FIVE<br/>
Cents for ten lines, and each additional line,<br/>
FIVE Cents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Advertisers must be particular to specify<br/>
the number of insertions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For advertisements over three months the<br/>
following are the Terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Lines. colm.</td>
 <td>3 month.</td>
 <td>6 month.</td>
 <td>1 year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">9 or ¹⁄₁₆</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">6</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">18 " ⅛</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">24 " ¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">48 " ⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">16</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">28</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">48</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">72 " ½</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: center;">144 " 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">36</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">60</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">100</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The above is calculated for Brevier body.<br/>
All advertisements payable separately and in<br/>
advance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Communications and remittances can be<br/>
sent to the subscriber, or left at the store of<br/>
Messrs. Virgin & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
D. B. BRADLEY, PUBLISHER & PROPRIETOR.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
One of the great inventions
of the age.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Since the invention of that great and<br/>
powerful article of all military warfare<br/>
namely, gunpowder, which enabled the<br/>
warriors of antiquity to fling away their<br/>
bows and arrows, there has been no more<br/>
triumphant achievement in the arts, than<br/>
that just published to the world of ren-<br/>
dering gunpowder non explosive.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A gentleman by the name of Mr. Gale,<br/>
after the enthusiastic pursuit of this par-<br/>
ticular matter, for the long period of<br/>
fifteen years, has developed a plan by<br/>
which powder can be made as harmless<br/>
as chalk, and yet not injured in its quali-<br/>
ty of ready explosion. Mr. Gale's great<br/>
object was to render gunpowder a safe<br/>
article to be kept anywhere, without any<br/>
fear of accident or injury to any one<br/>
while thus protected, and in this desire<br/>
he has achieved the most complete suc-<br/>
cess.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
When we assure our readers, that a<br/>
lighted torch may now be inserted in-<br/>
side of a barrel of gunpowder, without<br/>
any fear of explosion, they will scarcely<br/>
credit the fact, but it is incontrovertably<br/>
true. The association of the two words<br/>
FIRE and GUNPOWDER always creates a most<br/>
sensible apprehension or dread, but when<br/>
it is said that gunpowder may now be<br/>
employed to extinguish fire, the marvel<br/>
is as bold as it is correct.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The plan adopted to effect this almost<br/>
miraculous change, in the elements of<br/>
which gunpowder is formed, is in this<br/>
way. Common glass is taken and exposed<br/>
to the action of fire, till it attains to a<br/>
bright whiteness, or a white heat. This<br/>
molten glass is then suddenly plunged into<br/>
cold water, by which the cohesive qualities<br/>
of the glass are completely destroyed.<br/>
After being thus treated, it may be turn-<br/>
ed into an impalpable powder so to speak,<br/>
between the finger and thumb. This<br/>
glass powder is then taken and combined<br/>
in definite proportions with gunpowder,<br/>
by which the explosive quality of the<br/>
latter is totally destroyed while in this<br/>
mixed state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The proportions are as follows. If you<br/>
wish to render gunpowder non explosive<br/>
and yet fiercely combustible, you are to<br/>
take two parts of powdered glass prepared<br/>
in the manner described, to one part of<br/>
gunpowder. This composition will not<br/>
explode on the application of fire, though<br/>
it will burn, with a slight fizzing noise.<br/>
In the proportion of three parts of glass<br/>
powder, to one of gunpowder, it is ren-<br/>
dered almost incombustible. In the<br/>
proportion of four parts to one, the<br/>
strongest gunpowder is made perfectly<br/>
harmless. In fact, it extinguishes flame<br/>
as several of the experiments show.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This then is the great invention of Mr.<br/>
Gale,—the great triumph of the age.<br/>
The next question then is, does not this<br/>
mixing of the two substances destroy in<br/>
totality the explosive power of the gun-<br/>
powder? The answer is, No. In this fact<br/>
consists the beauty of the invention. All<br/>
that is required is, that the mixture shall<br/>
pass through a copper sieve, when the<br/>
powdered glass passes through and the<br/>
gunpowder remains behind in the sieve.<br/>
Then touch that gunpowder with fire,<br/>
and it instantly explodes, in the same<br/>
manner, as if it never had been mixed with<br/>
the glass. While, therefore, this mixing<br/>
process renders gunpowder wholly harm-<br/>
less and safe, as an article which may be<br/>
stored anywhere, it adds very materially<br/>
to the preservation of the powder itself.<br/>
It is an effectual protection against damp.<br/>
It prevents friction among the separate<br/>
particles of the powder. It, in fact,<br/>
produces a mighty revolution in all our<br/>
ordinary and common ideas of gunpowder.<br/>
People were in the habit of saying, and<br/>
most wisely saying, you cannot be too<br/>
careful of gunpowder. Hence magazines<br/>
were constructed with special reference<br/>
to its preservation from all accidents by<br/>
fire.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But when this change is introduced,<br/>
as it no doubt will be, in every country<br/>
in the world, men may go to sleep on<br/>
barrels of gunpowder with as little risk,<br/>
or anxiety concerning their own safety<br/>
as if they were so many barrels of sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The experiments to test the thorough<br/>
and complete success of Mr. Gale's in-<br/>
vention were made in the presence of<br/>
General Lefroy and the members of the<br/>
Ordnance select Committee. These took<br/>
place at the Martello tower, or Pet tower<br/>
which stands about half way between<br/>
Hastings and Rye. The greatest care<br/>
was taken against the occurrence of any<br/>
accident.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fire was first applied by means of an<br/>
electrical battery. Five tons of gunpow-<br/>
der were thus subjected to experiment.<br/>
Finally the General permitted any person<br/>
who chose to go inside of the tower, to<br/>
witness the barrels, burning in which the<br/>
harmless gunpowder had been packed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Whoever therefore, may claim to be<br/>
the original inventor of gunpowder,<br/>
whether he be a Chinaman, a Grecian, a<br/>
Persian, a Roman, or a Turk, the honor<br/>
belongs to an Englishman of rendering<br/>
that dreadfully dangerous compound as<br/>
harmless as any other substance in com-<br/>
mon use among mankind. The effect on<br/>
the interests and welfare of man will be<br/>
as great in this matter, as if all the beasts<br/>
of prey in our forests were suddenly de-<br/>
prived of all their wildness and ferocity,<br/>
and the day had really arrived when the<br/>
lion and the lamb could be seen lying<br/>
down beside each other, in mutual con-<br/>
tentment and peace.—RANGOON TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The recent Outbreak
IN THE ROYAL CITY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Mandalay, 5th August 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As the first excitement has worn off,<br/>
people now inquire the origin of all this<br/>
sudden Rebellion. The following account<br/>
is given me by an old native acquain-<br/>
tance of mine. About six months ago,<br/>
there was a register taken of the followers<br/>
of each of the Princes. This caused some<br/>
discontent and roused feelings of suspicion<br/>
among them, and especially since then,<br/>
some of the more active have secretly ex-<br/>
tended their influence and procured adher-<br/>
ents. The Minggoon Mingtha made great<br/>
efforts and succeeded in attaching a large<br/>
number of men to his interest. The<br/>
Loungshee Mengyee found this out and<br/>
spoke to the Crown Prince. He at first<br/>
treated the information as nonsense, said<br/>
the boy was not likely to think any thing<br/>
seriously evil, and dismissed the matter,<br/>
mentioning nothing of it to his brother<br/>
the king. The Minggoon continued his<br/>
preparations. One night there was a grand<br/>
'Puay' at one of the Princes, the Crown<br/>
Prince was expected, and the tragedy was<br/>
to begin with a slaughter in the midst of<br/>
the theatrical performance. The Crown<br/>
Prince however did not attend, and the<br/>
rising was postponed. The Loungshee<br/>
Meng Gyee however got tidings of this<br/>
scheme and on his telling the Prince, the<br/>
latter attended to the information and<br/>
finally reported all to the King. The king<br/>
too at first refused to believe it, but the<br/>
Prince spoke of it again and the king<br/>
consented to take measures of precaution.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All the young princes were ordered to<br/>
have but six followers each, and to have<br/>
no arms, and to refrain from all com-<br/>
munications with the people not belong-<br/>
ing to the king. This brought the thing<br/>
to a crisis, and the Mingroon Princes—<br/>
there are two brothers—decided to wait<br/>
no longer. The Singwoon—their ma-<br/>
ternal uncle—was to set fire to a house<br/>
belonging to their party close to the palace,<br/>
and under cover of running to help to put<br/>
it out, the rush was made by the Ming-<br/>
goon and his brother and followers with<br/>
naked swords to the South gate of the<br/>
Palace: and through the outer court to<br/>
the Tey Gyee where the Crown Prince<br/>
was sitting talking with the Woongyees.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Crown Prince saw the rush and<br/>
tried to get away. A cut on his leg threw<br/>
him, he was then cut down by the young<br/>
Minggoon,the dying Prince, then cried out<br/>
to his assassins, I am in your hands, it is<br/>
over with me, but do not hurt my brother.'<br/>
The Loangshee Mengyee was cut down<br/>
and left for dead. The Pakan Woong-<br/>
yee escaped over the fence into the in-<br/>
ner court. A few others were killed<br/>
and wounded. This first act was over<br/>
in three minutes. The rebels then rushed<br/>
through the second gate, and after some<br/>
resistance got through the third, then<br/>
rushed up to them 'yenan' drove out and<br/>
disarmed the guards. The young princes<br/>
then rushed into the inner apartments,<br/>
and found the king. The younger went<br/>
in first, made obedience and cried 'Lord<br/>
Father, come out this way, an enemy is<br/>
come.' The Toung duey Bo, cried<br/>
"you are the enemy" and rushed to cut<br/>
him down. The king cried, "Dont<br/>
wound him." the Minggoon himself and<br/>
men then rushed in, the Duey Bo was<br/>
then cut down, the King Woon caught<br/>
hold of the Minggoon who had raised his<br/>
hand to his father, and was immediately<br/>
killed by the rebels. In the confusion<br/>
the king escaped. The Princes came<br/>
down by the Northern side and out<br/>
through the gates into the large court.<br/>
The men there on guard had been order-<br/>
ed to load by the Yeynung young Minis-<br/>
ter, but the Minggoon single handed<br/>
rushed up and ordered them to lay down<br/>
their arms. They did so.—The Princes<br/>
then went out the same way as they came<br/>
in and rushed with a portion of their men<br/>
to the city just in time to be shut out, at<br/>
the East North gate after the king had<br/>
got in. The king had been carried out<br/>
from the Sammudan on the shoulders of<br/>
one of the Minggoon's secret adherents<br/>
whose role it was to stick to the king<br/>
under all circumstances, and not permit<br/>
his escape with life. An official saw a<br/>
dagger hidden in his waistcoat, and beg-<br/>
ged the king to come down. A pony<br/>
was caught and on this the king was got<br/>
into the city and Main Palace. The<br/>
Minggoon and his men, soon followed<br/>
and got into the outer court, but failed<br/>
to penetrate the second gate. They<br/>
cannonaded it, and broke the planking,<br/>
and would perhaps have got through but<br/>
the men of the Crown Prince were now<br/>
on them and drove the whole party out<br/>
of the palace. That night was a terrible<br/>
one inside the city. Those who were not<br/>
fighting on either side broke up into rov-<br/>
ing bands of ruffians, and every quarter<br/>
and street had to improvise a guard of<br/>
the inhabitants who defended themselves<br/>
and property as best they could. The<br/>
Minggoon got away about two o'clock,<br/>
but concealed the fact from his men till<br/>
the morning. His Uncle the Singwoon<br/>
was left to gather and command a body<br/>
of men as near the capital as possible,<br/>
while the Prince proceeded in the Steamer<br/>
he had taken, to raise an Army in his<br/>
district of Minggoon and the neighbour-<br/>
hood.—C. W. from the Rangoon Times.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_8 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Atlantic Cable.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The great fact of the day-—the Atlan-<br/>
tic Cable—-has been duly and satisfac-<br/>
torily tested. In proof of this the mon-<br/>
arch of England and the sovereign of the<br/>
great republic have exchanged friendly<br/>
salutations through the depths of the<br/>
Atlantic Ocean, and London and New<br/>
York have been placed in hourly com-<br/>
munication with each other-—the Wall<br/>
street of the latter being now, figuratively<br/>
speaking, adjoining the Missing Lane of<br/>
the former, as the ENGLISHMAN lately<br/>
observed. The business transactions of<br/>
the two nations are now, comparatively,<br/>
brought next door to each other. Thus<br/>
has been settled a great bond at which<br/>
the world at large may well wonder. May<br/>
it last undisturbed. We give prominen-<br/>
tly here the graphic observations of the<br/>
Home News on the grand result of the<br/>
gigantic enterprize:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Atlantic Telegraph Cable is laid,<br/>
and not only laid securely, but with an<br/>
increase of power consequent upon com-<br/>
pletion. The Old and the New Worlds<br/>
are shaking hands across the mighty<br/>
waste of waters, and congratulations<br/>
have been already exchanged between<br/>
the Queen and the President. The im-<br/>
agination can hardly compass this<br/>
achievement. We hear people talking<br/>
in America. We know what was the<br/>
price of the funds ten minutes ago up-<br/>
wards of 2000 miles off. Ariel is no<br/>
longer a spirit, but a flesh-and-blood fact.<br/>
No estimate can be made of the difficul-<br/>
ties conquered, or the benefits obtained.<br/>
Even the failure of the former cable has<br/>
proved an incalculable gain, for the new<br/>
cable is an immense improvement upon<br/>
the old one; and the new instruments<br/>
used in the transmission of messages, and<br/>
the new system of numeral signals, ex-<br/>
hibit an advance of such magnitude as to<br/>
enable one cable literally to do the work<br/>
of two.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nor is this all. We are advised to<br/>
stay our wonderment to think that this<br/>
great achievement is, in present expecta-<br/>
tion, but the beginning of similar mar-<br/>
vels, of which that mighty ocean will be<br/>
the scene—as shown by the annexed<br/>
further quotation from our respected<br/>
overland informer:—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The experience which has been ac-<br/>
quired in the working of the Great East-<br/>
ern, has not only developed in a higher<br/>
degree than could have been anticipated<br/>
the marvellous powers of the great ship,<br/>
and thus enormously increased her prac-<br/>
tical utility, but has shown that she can<br/>
be managed with as much ease and cer-<br/>
tainty as the smallest vessel afloat. Two<br/>
other vessels have been sent to pick up<br/>
the cable of last year, a task in which we<br/>
have no doubt they will succeed. We<br/>
shall then have two cables between Eng-<br/>
land and America. The Great Eastern<br/>
is reserved for more extended labours.<br/>
For a long time to come, it is supposed,<br/>
she will continue to be employed in lay-<br/>
ing cables in the Atlantic, for the in-<br/>
creasing need of intercourse will require<br/>
an indefinite expansion of the means of<br/>
communication.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“All honor to those who conceived the<br/>
great design, and who have carried it out<br/>
so triumphantly.”—-MAULMAIN ADVER-<br/>
TISER.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prussia.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The area of Prussia is at present 108,<br/>
212 English square miles, or about equal<br/>
to the combined territory of Georgia and<br/>
Florida. The population, according to<br/>
the census of 1864, was 19,304,843, fall-<br/>
ing but little below that of the Northern<br/>
States of the Union. The great majority<br/>
of the population, are Germans ; the to-<br/>
tal number of persons belonging to non-<br/>
German nationalities being 2,504,179. A<br/>
considerable portion of the latter are fee-<br/>
ble remnants of small tribes, which are<br/>
rapidly being absorbed by the German<br/>
nationality. Within the last few years<br/>
the Government of Prussia made several<br/>
important additions to the former domi-<br/>
nions, acquiring first the two Principali-<br/>
ties of Hohenzollern, next the important<br/>
sea coast district of Yahde, which it pur-<br/>
chased from Oldenburg, and more recent-<br/>
ly the Duchy of Lauenburg which was<br/>
ceded to it by Austria for a pecuniary<br/>
consideration. It holds, moreover, pos-<br/>
session of Schleswig, and avows its inten-<br/>
tion to permanently annex to Prussia<br/>
both this Duchy and that of Holstein. In<br/>
point of administration, Prussia is not<br/>
inferior to any other country of the<br/>
world. Its finances, unlike those of<br/>
Austria and Italy, are in a sound condition;<br/>
its army discipline has long been the ad-<br/>
miration of the entire civilized world.<br/>
The army, on a war footing, numbers<br/>
700,000, and its fleet consisted, in 1865,<br/>
of 37 steamers, 8 sailing vessels, 40 row-<br/>
ing vessels ; total, 85-war vessels. The<br/>
reigning King is William I., born in 1797,<br/>
who succeeded his brother, Frederic<br/>
William IV., in January, 1861.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_11 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Austria.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Austrian empire, as at present<br/>
constituted, is divided into nineteen Pro-<br/>
vinces, the area of which is 236, 311<br/>
English square miles, with a total pop-<br/>
ulation, according to computation, of 36,<br/>
795,000 souls. This population is divided,<br/>
with respect to race and language, into<br/>
no fewer than twelve different national-<br/>
ities, namely:-—German, 8,200,000 ; Bo-<br/>
hemians, Moravians and Slovacks, 3,600,<br/>
000 ; Poles, 2,200,000 ; Russians, 2,800,<br/>
000 ; Slovenians, 1,210,000 ; Croats, 1,<br/>
360,000 ; Servians, 1,479,000 ; Bulgarians,<br/>
25,000 ; Magyars, 5,050,000 ; Italians,<br/>
(inclusive of Latins and Friauls,) 3,650-<br/>
000 ; Eastern Romans, 2,700,000 ; mem-<br/>
bers of other races, 1,430,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Austria is one of the great military<br/>
powers of Europe, her army on the war<br/>
footing being over half a million of men.<br/>
The navy, however, is comparatively<br/>
small, consisting, in August, 1864, of 39<br/>
steamers with 639 guns, 11,730 horse-<br/>
power, and 20 sailing vessels with 145<br/>
guns. Great efforts have been made<br/>
within the last few years to raise the<br/>
Imperial navy to a state of high efficien-<br/>
cy by the substitution of steam for sail-<br/>
ing vessels, and the gradual formation of<br/>
an iron-clad fleet of war. Austria has<br/>
become a constitutional monarchy since<br/>
1848, the main features of the constitu-<br/>
tion consisting, first, of the Provincial<br/>
Diets, representing the various States of<br/>
the monarchy ; secondly, a Central Diet,<br/>
or Council of the Empire ; and thirdly a<br/>
reduced form of the latter, or Partial<br/>
Council of the Empire, as it is called.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The public debt of the Empire, which at<br/>
the commencement of the French Revo-<br/>
lution in 1789 was $174,500,000, had<br/>
grown in 1863 to $1,210,222,085. From<br/>
1789 to the present time there has not<br/>
been a single year in which the revenue<br/>
of the State has come up to the expendi-<br/>
ture. The present Emperor, Francis<br/>
Joseph I., was born August, 1830, and<br/>
was proclaimed Emperor and King in<br/>
consequence of the abdication of his un-<br/>
cle, Ferdinand I., and the renunciation<br/>
of his father, Francis Charles, Decem-<br/>
ber 2, 1848. He was Commander-in-Chief<br/>
of the Austrian army in the Italian cam-<br/>
paign of 1859.-—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Value of a Crown.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Crown of England is valuable<br/>
enough to found half a dozen moderate<br/>
colleges. The twenty diamonds round<br/>
the circle are worth $150,000; two large<br/>
center diamonds, $20,000; fifty four<br/>
smaller diamonds in the angle, $270,000;<br/>
four crosses, each composed of twenty<br/>
five diamonds, $60,000; four large diam-<br/>
onds on the top of the crosses, $20,000;<br/>
twelve large diamonds in the FLEUR-DE-<br/>
LYS, $50,000; eighteen small ones in the<br/>
same, $10,000; pearls and diamonds in<br/>
the arches and crosses, $50,000; also one<br/>
hundred and forty-six small ones, $25-<br/>
000; twenty six diamonds in the upper<br/>
cross, $150,000; two circles of pearls a-<br/>
bout the rim, $15,000:—value of pre-<br/>
cious stones exclusive of metal, $820,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_14 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Josh Billings Again.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I kant tell you the best way tew bring<br/>
up a boy; but if I had one that didn't<br/>
lie well enuff to suit me, I think I would<br/>
sett him tending a drigood store. Pro-<br/>
bably, one of the best ways tew bring up<br/>
a boy in the way he should go, is tew<br/>
travel that ourselfs, once in a while. Still<br/>
there aint no sure thing; I have seen<br/>
them brought up as kerful az a lapp-dog,<br/>
and then go to the devil jist az soon az<br/>
they could strike the right track. And<br/>
then, I have saw them come out ov<br/>
someboddy's gutter and wash up like a<br/>
diamond. Raising boys iz a good deal<br/>
like raising colts, If yu dont git more<br/>
than one out ov ten that is a fast one, yu<br/>
are dewing fast rate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Buty iz one uv them things that kant<br/>
be diskribed; yu might az well undertake<br/>
tew tell how a kiss tastes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"I think, (from aktual experience,)<br/>
the happiest period in childhood is when<br/>
they have jist been spanked and got well<br/>
over it.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_1_15 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Search others, for their virtues, thy-<br/>
self for thy vices.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Simeonly says that 'advice is like<br/>
the snow—the softer it falls the longer<br/>
it dwells upon and the deeper it sinks in-<br/>
to the mind.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—When Socrates was asked why he<br/>
had built for himself so small a house,<br/>
he replied: "Small as it is, I wish I<br/>
could fill it with friends."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Life, is it not useful if it is happy?<br/>
says the egotist. Is it not happy enough<br/>
if it is useful? says the man of worth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—There is danger in being too neat.<br/>
An old lady in Holland once scrubbed<br/>
her sittingroom floor until she fell<br/>
through it into the cellar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Good! men have the fewest tears.<br/>
He has but one who fears to do wrong.<br/>
He has a thousand who has overcome<br/>
that one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Lord Chesterfield once remarked<br/>
that even Adam, the first man, knew the<br/>
value of politeness, and allowed Eve to<br/>
have the first bite of the apple.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-Sentimental youth! "My dear girl,<br/>
will you share my lot for life?" Practi-<br/>
cal girl— "How many acres are there in<br/>
your lot sir?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—We are always ready to reckon our<br/>
trials, but are we equally so to keep ac-<br/>
count of the sins which draw them down<br/>
upon us?—-CHRYSOSTOM.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Sir Isaac Newton's bachelor nephew<br/>
was a clergyman. When he had perform-<br/>
ed the marriage ceremony for a young<br/>
couple, he always refused the fee, saying,<br/>
"Go your ways, poor wretches, I have<br/>
done you mischief enough already."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—"Ah, Jemmy," said a sympathising<br/>
friend to a man who was just too late for<br/>
the train, "you did not run fast enough."<br/>
"Yes I did," said Jenny. "I run fast<br/>
enough, but I did not start soon enough."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—Where was John Rogers burnt to<br/>
death?" said the teacher to me in a com-<br/>
manding voice. "I couldn't tell—to the<br/>
next—no answer.—"Joshua knows," said<br/>
a little girl at the foot of the class.<br/>
"Well," said the teacher, if Joshua knows<br/>
he may tell." "In the fire," said Joshua,<br/>
looking very solemn and wise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-We have known persons who could<br/>
sit three long hours in a closely-packed<br/>
concert hall, rendered suffocating by the<br/>
rising dust of applause; yet they could<br/>
not sit watching and praying hearing and<br/>
meditating one hour in the roomy house<br/>
of God; it gave them the headache.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
October 4th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The prospects of Burmah.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our latest advices from Burmah give<br/>
us much hope that the rebellion in<br/>
upper Burmah has been stayed—-that<br/>
—the one as 1st the other 2nd king,<br/>
cannot long escape capture and the<br/>
punishment they richly deserve—-and<br/>
that a far better state of political re-<br/>
lations between christian and heathen<br/>
Burmah will quickly follow this terrible<br/>
event than had hitherto been enjoyed.<br/>
We cannot doubt that our king Imma-<br/>
nuel will overrule this civil commotion<br/>
to the advancement of his cause and<br/>
the glory of his name in Burmah.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It would seem that the reigning<br/>
monarch, together with his ministers<br/>
of state, were, before the outbreak,<br/>
too proud and self conceited to enter-<br/>
tain for a moment the idea of seeking<br/>
a more intimate friendship with Eng-<br/>
land, or any particular protection from<br/>
her. It appears that the government<br/>
she hoped to become even less intimate<br/>
and dependant, and were, under the<br/>
influence of self-importance and dislike<br/>
of her English neighbors, managing<br/>
affairs so as to embarrass not a little<br/>
British interests in Burmah. But it<br/>
would seem that the Burman govern-<br/>
ment must now see matters in quite a<br/>
different light-—that she must now<br/>
feel her need of the powerful arm of<br/>
England to hold her up in her present<br/>
weakness, and must deeply regret<br/>
that she did not accept of her arm<br/>
when sometime since it was proffered<br/>
for her protection. Had she done so,<br/>
and acted in good faith touching the<br/>
proposed new treaty relations, we<br/>
cannot doubt that she would have been<br/>
spared the terrible confusion and<br/>
humiliation which has befallen her.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Col. Phayer, the Com-<br/>
missioner-general for British Burmah,<br/>
a man of great experience among the<br/>
Burmans, of great love for their wel-<br/>
fare, and a special friend of the king,<br/>
was to leave Maulmain—-on a visit to<br/>
the king in his deep affliction, and<br/>
that he would very probably, under<br/>
God, prepare the way for the negoti-<br/>
ation of new treaty relations between<br/>
the two governments such as will vir-<br/>
tually bring the king of Burmah under<br/>
the protection of England. We fondly<br/>
hope and trust this will be the good<br/>
news we shall soon hear from our<br/>
western neighbors.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And having written thus far on this<br/>
subject, we feel constrained to go<br/>
further, and say that in our mind<br/>
there is not a lingering doubt that if<br/>
Burmah long refuses to take England as<br/>
her protector, that the Almighty gov-<br/>
ernor of all nations will so order his<br/>
providences that she will quickly ruin<br/>
herself as a nation, just as the little<br/>
nations in India all have done which<br/>
persisted in their hatred of a Christian<br/>
government and the Christian's God.<br/>
The truth is the Word of the Almighty<br/>
is out against all such nations as will<br/>
not fear and serve Him; and it "will<br/>
not return unto Him void." Let all<br/>
these eastern heathen princes look at<br/>
it and study it in the book of the<br/>
prophet Isaiah 60: 12th-—"For the<br/>
nation and kingdom that will not serve<br/>
thee [Jehovah] shall perish; yea,<br/>
those nations shall be utterly wasted."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Had those Indian kingdoms early<br/>
abolished their idolatry as did the<br/>
government of the Sandwich Islands,<br/>
and welcomed the christian religion,<br/>
and christian teachers among them, and<br/>
adopted the Bible as the book of the<br/>
only true God, and framed their laws<br/>
and taught their children accordingly,<br/>
who can doubt that they would many,<br/>
if not all, of them have risen in power<br/>
and maintained a glorious indepen-<br/>
dence? The Burman government has<br/>
not done this, nor taken the first step<br/>
toward it, and she has thus "treasured"<br/>
up wrath against the day of wrath!<br/>
And if she do not soon repent by<br/>
abandoning idolatry, she must at least<br/>
loose the honor of continuing an inde-<br/>
pendent kingdom. China is manifestly<br/>
on the same road to subvertion as an<br/>
empire and for the same general cause.<br/>
And we must in faithfulness add that<br/>
we think Siam is following hard on to-<br/>
ward the same humiliation—-that noth-<br/>
ing can save her from it but a speedy<br/>
abolition of Buddhism, acknowledg-<br/>
ment of Jesus Christ as being "over all<br/>
God blessed forever," adoption of the<br/>
Bible as her only infallible standard of<br/>
faith and practice, the substratum of<br/>
all righteous laws, and an earnest<br/>
seeking of christian teachers for the<br/>
people and their children. Let Siam<br/>
but do this, and she will, in all pro-<br/>
bability, like the Sandwich Island na-<br/>
tion, maintain her independence, be<br/>
like her acknowledged as one of the<br/>
great family of christian nations, and<br/>
protected and honored as such. Then<br/>
will her true prosperity rise and shine<br/>
in Eastern Asia "brighter and brighter<br/>
unto the perfect day."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
O that Burmah and China and Siam<br/>
were wise, that they would duly con-<br/>
sider the two diametrically opposite<br/>
lines of future conduct which the King<br/>
of kings is now leaving them to the<br/>
freedom of their own wills to accept<br/>
or reject—the one abominable idolatry<br/>
with all its darkness, degradation and<br/>
ruin—the other a pure christianity with<br/>
"all the fullness of the blessing of the<br/>
gospel of peace." As for our adopted<br/>
Siam we do still fervently hope that she<br/>
will yet "choose that good part which<br/>
shall never be taken away from her."<br/>
But if she do so, she must do it quick-<br/>
ly or be found too late for salvation
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_2_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sandwich Islands No. 2.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captain Cook the discoverer of the<br/>
Islands was murdered by the natives<br/>
on Hawaii in a mob, February 1779.<br/>
The effect of that event was to deter<br/>
vessels from visiting the group until<br/>
1786, when Captains Dixon and Port-<br/>
lock touched at Oahu for refreshments<br/>
on their trading voyage to the North-<br/>
west Coast for furs and sea-otter skins.<br/>
Thence forward trading vessels stop-<br/>
ped at the Islands more and more fre-<br/>
quently.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some years after this a European<br/>
ship was seized and plundered on the<br/>
western shore of Hawaii and the crew<br/>
all murdered excepting Isaac Davis<br/>
and—-Young. Kamehameha the reign-<br/>
ing king seems to have had no share in<br/>
the guilt of that transaction. He took<br/>
the two Europeans under his special<br/>
patronage, and they are said to have<br/>
exerted much influence in the early<br/>
part of his reign. But there is no<br/>
evidence that they ever in any way<br/>
taught even the first lessons of chris-<br/>
tainity to any on the Islands. They<br/>
were both promoted to chieftainship,<br/>
and the grand daughter of Davis be-<br/>
came the wife of Kamehameha IV.<br/>
and she was Queen of Hawaii in<br/>
1863 at the time Rev. R. Anderson<br/>
D. D. was at the Islands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vancouver accompanied Capt. Cook<br/>
to the Islands, and while on a voyage<br/>
of discovery, being sent by the English<br/>
government, he spent a good part of<br/>
the years 1792-3 & 4 at the Islands<br/>
and was treated with much kindness<br/>
by the king of Hawaii.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Vancouver then saw much evidence<br/>
that the population of the group had<br/>
greatly decreased since his first visit to<br/>
them, which is attributed to dissolat-<br/>
ing wars which had been carried on in<br/>
the interval, the prevalence of infanti-<br/>
cide, and the wasting tendencies of<br/>
intemperance and licentiousness among<br/>
the people. With regard to the hor-<br/>
rid practice of infanticide, Rev. Wm.<br/>
Ellis is regarded as undoubtedly good<br/>
testimony. In writing of it forty years<br/>
ago, he says.—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"It prevails throughout all the is-<br/>
lands, and with the exception of the<br/>
higher class of chiefs, is, as far as we<br/>
could learn, practiced by all ranks of<br/>
the people. However numerous the<br/>
children among the lower orders, par-<br/>
ents rear not more than two or three,<br/>
and many space only one. All the<br/>
others are destroyed, sometimes short-<br/>
ly after birth, generally during their<br/>
first year. The means by which it is<br/>
accomplished, though numerous, it<br/>
would be improper to describe. Kua-<br/>
kini, the governor of the Island, in a<br/>
conversation I had with him at Kailua,<br/>
enumerated many methods, several of<br/>
which prove fatal to the mother also.<br/>
Sometimes they strangle their chil-<br/>
dren, but more frequently bury them<br/>
alive. It is painful to think of the<br/>
numbers thus murdered. All the in-<br/>
formation we have been able to obtain,<br/>
and the facts that have come to our<br/>
knowledge in the neighborhood where<br/>
we resided, afford every reason to be-<br/>
lieve that, from the prevalence of in-<br/>
fanticide, two thirds of the children<br/>
perished. We have been told by some<br/>
of the chiefs, on whose word we can<br/>
depend, that they have known parents<br/>
to murder three or four infants where<br/>
they have spared one."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The principal motive" he contin-<br/>
ues "with those who practice it, is<br/>
idleness, and the reason most frequent-<br/>
ly assigned, even by the parents them-<br/>
selves, for the murder of their child-<br/>
ren is—-the trouble of bringing them<br/>
up. In general they are of a change-<br/>
able disposition, fond of a wandering<br/>
manner of life, and find their children<br/>
a restraint, preventing them in some<br/>
degree, from following their roving<br/>
inclinations. Like other savage na-<br/>
tions, they are averse to any more la-<br/>
bor than is absolutely necessary.<br/>
Hence they consider their children a<br/>
burden, and are unwilling to cultivate<br/>
a little more ground, or undertake the<br/>
small additional labor necessary to the<br/>
support of their offspring during the<br/>
helpless periods of infancy and child-<br/>
hood. In some cases when the child<br/>
has been sickly, and the parents have<br/>
become tired of nursing and attending<br/>
it, they have been known, in order to<br/>
avoid attendance and care, to bury it<br/>
at once ; and we have been credibly<br/>
informed, that children have been<br/>
buried alive merely because of the ir-<br/>
ritation they have manifested. On<br/>
these occasions, when the child has<br/>
cried more than the parents, particu-<br/>
larly the mother, could patiently bear,<br/>
instead of clasping the little sufferer<br/>
to her bosom, and soothing by caress-<br/>
es the pains, which, though unable<br/>
to tell them, it has probably felt, she<br/>
has, to free herself from this annoy-<br/>
ance, stopped its cries by thrusting a<br/>
piece of tapu into its mouth ; and dig-<br/>
ging a hole in the floor of the house,<br/>
perhaps within a few yards of her bed,<br/>
and the spot where she took her daily<br/>
meals, has relentlessly buried, in the<br/>
untimely grave, her helpless babe."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Kamehameha I. was a remarkable<br/>
man—-as much so among his people as<br/>
an Alexander or a Napoleon among<br/>
theirs, and well deserves the title<br/>
“great”—-He was great in stature,<br/>
great in mental capacity, and majestic<br/>
in his carriage. He was kind and<br/>
gentle and averse to war, and would<br/>
never have engaged in it, but in self<br/>
defence. The Almighty, whom he<br/>
knew not, favored him in all his wars<br/>
until in 1794 he became ruler of all<br/>
the islands except Kauai, and in 1809<br/>
made him monarch of all.” His<br/>
policy was to protect trade, in which<br/>
he received many useful lessons from<br/>
Vancouver. He regarded himself as<br/>
being the owner of all lands, and ap-<br/>
portioned them among his chiefs “ac-<br/>
cording to their rank and deserts,<br/>
which he did on the feudal tenure of<br/>
rendering military service and a pro-<br/>
portion of the revenues”. The peace,<br/>
order and security which existed<br/>
among his subjects in the latter part<br/>
of his reign was remarkable, consider-<br/>
ing his own want of light from chris-<br/>
tain lands, and the deep darkness, an-<br/>
archy, and desolating wars which<br/>
immediately preceded that state. He<br/>
died on the 8th of May, 1819 in the<br/>
sixty sixth year of his age, a few<br/>
months before the first christian mis-<br/>
sionaries embarked at Boston for the<br/>
purpose of preaching the gospel to his<br/>
people.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_2_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Laos Physician.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were much interested a few days<br/>
since in observing the practice of one<br/>
of the chief physicians to the king of<br/>
Cheangmai. We had taken our seat<br/>
in a sala of the temple before which<br/>
the royal barges are moored. Pres-<br/>
ently a gray-headed man came along<br/>
with a 'kind of satchel suspended on<br/>
his shoulders, and taking it off, sat<br/>
down in the sala. A young Laosan<br/>
woman then brought a three quart<br/>
bowl full of clear water and placed it<br/>
before the Doctor. A young man<br/>
brought another with about the same<br/>
quantity of water, and still another<br/>
man a smaller bowl full. We could<br/>
not imagine what was going to be done.<br/>
But the Doctor soon disclosed the mys-<br/>
tery. He opened his satchel, and<br/>
searching among many little bags and<br/>
bamboo calipots within (each being<br/>
nicely labeled in Laos letters) for the<br/>
bag he wanted, he opened it, and turned<br/>
out a lot of roots, sticks, bones, stones,<br/>
a piece of ivory, a bit of mother of<br/>
pearl, etc. There were in all sixteen<br/>
kinds of medical substances from<br/>
which he was going to make prescrip-<br/>
tions for the sick among the king's ser-<br/>
vants and attendants. Then, taking<br/>
out of his satchel a small rubstone a-<br/>
bout the size of those we were accus-<br/>
tomed in our youthful days to use in<br/>
whetting scythes, rubbed the articles one<br/>
by one upon it, first dipping its end<br/>
in the water, then rubbing it on the<br/>
stone, and this repeated three or four<br/>
times. Thus he served the whole—<br/>
the bone, stone and ivory as well as the<br/>
roots. We observed that some of the<br/>
roots and sticks coloured the water a<br/>
little. This being done the patient<br/>
or his servant was on hand to bear the<br/>
medicated water away for use. We,<br/>
with all due gravity asked the Doctor<br/>
what that medical compound was in-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
tended to cure. Dysentery, was the<br/>
laconic reply. Then the young man<br/>
brought his dish of water before the<br/>
Doctor for medication, and taking out<br/>
another bag of roots, sticks, shells &c.<br/>
went through with much the same<br/>
process and then handed it over to the<br/>
patient. Into one of the bowls of wa-<br/>
ter he dropped several little pills<br/>
in which they were dissolved; and<br/>
that we learned was for fever.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The doctor seemed to have his pro-<br/>
fession all by heart. He was not at<br/>
all at a loss in making up his mind<br/>
what medicines he would use in the<br/>
several cases. He had only a word<br/>
or two to say to either of the patients.<br/>
It was not necessary for him to inquire<br/>
minutely after the symptoms, nor to<br/>
feel the pulse, nor to look at the tongue,<br/>
nor to sound the chest by percussion nor<br/>
the bowels by pressure for any grave<br/>
disease that might be lurking there.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Such seemed to be his reputed tact and<br/>
skill in his profession, that he had on-<br/>
ly to glance his eye at the patient once<br/>
or twice, and he would understand all<br/>
about it. Each disease seemed to have<br/>
such a fixed character at all times, in<br/>
his opinion, that it needs little or no<br/>
discrimination, little fear that the med-<br/>
icine labeled for its use will not do its<br/>
best to cure, and that if it fails, uncon-<br/>
trollable fate alone will have to be re-<br/>
sponsible for it, and not the Doctor.<br/>
We could not but think within our-<br/>
selves that essentially the same rou-<br/>
tine treatment of disease is well known<br/>
and much practised in the Western<br/>
world, as well as in Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The present King of Siam.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PRA CHAWN KLAU.
CHAPTER IX.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At the King's coronation he made<br/>
no intimations with regard to develo-<br/>
ping the intellectual resources of the<br/>
country. His eye was particularly<br/>
fixed upon the wants of the physical<br/>
man, and with an eye to these, he<br/>
may, for the time have forgotten that<br/>
his country cannot be permanently<br/>
great till he has all the resources with-<br/>
in his own country for meeting all the<br/>
wants of the country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The King proposed to encourage<br/>
commerce. He ought to have pro-<br/>
posed, at the same time, to have a<br/>
school to fit men for carrying on all<br/>
the departments of trade, Where is<br/>
the school, to make accountants, in-<br/>
terperters, ship-masters and kindred<br/>
officers? Echo answers, where? In<br/>
Siam certainly, not one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perhaps the school at the Prime<br/>
Ministers may become the nucleus for<br/>
such a seminary. When we see book-<br/>
keeping, and civil engineering intro-<br/>
duced, we shall feel that Siam is<br/>
taking a step in the right direction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But young noblemen, such as com-<br/>
pose the members of this school are<br/>
not the class to which we ought to<br/>
look, for masters of the practical arts,<br/>
such as give skill in conducting the<br/>
various departments of labor, though<br/>
thus far in Siam, enterprise has had its<br/>
impetus from this class of men. The<br/>
Second King, the Prime Minister, and<br/>
the Prime Minister's son have stood<br/>
at the head of improvements. The<br/>
primary business of this class is official<br/>
business—-making and executing the<br/>
laws which determine the progress of<br/>
the country. They may, it is true, be-<br/>
come versed both in the theory and<br/>
practice of these business matters as<br/>
do the sons of Queen Victoria, to give<br/>
them power to make better law-givers,<br/>
ruling the country with a practical<br/>
knowledge of its wants and its re-<br/>
sources.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is the children of the middle<br/>
class that should become the bone<br/>
and muscle of the country, increasing<br/>
production in every department. And<br/>
what hinders Siam from taking the<br/>
noble example of New England, and<br/>
educating all her boys and girls, and<br/>
fitting them to think well when they<br/>
come forward to act their part on the<br/>
stage of life. The theatre, or gambling<br/>
rooms, or the wearing a sanctimonious<br/>
face at seats, will not prepare them to<br/>
be good men or good citizens. Dis-<br/>
cipline and study, properly directed,<br/>
with true principles implanted, can<br/>
alone secure well such an end, and<br/>
this course, entered upon in childhood,<br/>
is the proper mode.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But now the children run about<br/>
the streets, learning vice and idleness.<br/>
The young men find amusement and<br/>
employment at gambling houses and<br/>
various places of vice, unless they<br/>
may, in part, be gathered into some<br/>
monastery to learn any thing but in-<br/>
dustry, and efficient, straight forward,<br/>
upright, and downright thinking, that<br/>
makes a well versed man, prepared to<br/>
live and prepared to die.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The king, undoubtedly, respects<br/>
learning. He is learned himself, and<br/>
knows the advantages of being able to<br/>
think, to study, and to devine. He is<br/>
not himself, evidently content with the<br/>
old ways of Siam. He employs a<br/>
European teacher, and pays, all things<br/>
considered, a handsome salary, that his<br/>
children may be taught the learned<br/>
languages of the present day, and<br/>
have the key to open to them western<br/>
science, western literature, and all the<br/>
history and literature connected with<br/>
the christian religion. It is a good<br/>
example as far as it goes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The English language may become<br/>
to the east what Latin was to the<br/>
Europe, a basis of word learning<br/>
and a key to scientific researches, and<br/>
the light that opens up to them the<br/>
true religion as it beams forth from<br/>
the precious Bible well translated. As<br/>
the sciences, are introduced into the<br/>
eastern languages, foreign words must<br/>
come with them, as a matter of course,<br/>
and the study of the languages from<br/>
which these words come can but fol-<br/>
low in the march of improvement.<br/>
The study of English is well; but Eng-<br/>
lish is only one branch to be pursued,<br/>
and this should be a subordinate<br/>
branch as Latin is in our western<br/>
schools.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is a great desideratum in Siam to<br/>
make good easy readers of the Siam-<br/>
ese language. Almost all read, but<br/>
few are easy readers that grasp the<br/>
thought as the eye passes over the<br/>
page, and for this reason intelligence<br/>
comes very slowly. The books now<br/>
in the country, are very shabbily read.<br/>
It was praise when the old lady said<br/>
of her son, he can read faster than<br/>
the minister. It was a sign that the<br/>
reader was beginning to grasp his<br/>
words easily, as a practiced noto read-<br/>
er can easily take in at one view the<br/>
four staffs on the piece of music be-<br/>
fore him, so some general readers<br/>
grasp much at a glance. Some peo-<br/>
ple have little faith in those who read<br/>
books almost as soon as mother would<br/>
turn over the leaves; but practice does<br/>
wonders in this respect. A ready<br/>
reader is a great acquisition.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At least the king can insist that the<br/>
Wats send out good readers of the<br/>
native language, if they do no more,<br/>
and then books at hand will give char-<br/>
acter and thought. A good reader,<br/>
almost as a matter of course, becomes<br/>
an intelligent man. He will certainly<br/>
become so if his readings are turned<br/>
in the right direction,—-to history and<br/>
science, and works of sound princi-<br/>
ples, sound religion, and sound morals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is the business of children to<br/>
learn to read, when they can be of<br/>
little use in any active employment.<br/>
It is a great task it is true, but when<br/>
the task is done, a great work is ac-<br/>
complished, and surely Siam has now<br/>
facilities for boys to become good<br/>
readers, and the king has the power<br/>
to enforce the measure. And the re-<br/>
form secured, it will be a great honor<br/>
to the king and a great good to the<br/>
country.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In a report on Boston schools it is<br/>
said, and I think with much truth, all<br/>
that makes Boston and Massachusetts<br/>
what they are is in a great measure,<br/>
dependant upon a broad and liberal<br/>
system of popular education.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tell it not in Cheangmai, publish<br/>
it not in the streets of the Malay<br/>
towns, that it is yet a problem whether<br/>
Siam can sustain one paper. Why! in<br/>
any country almost but Siam, they<br/>
have daily papers and the subscription<br/>
list is so numerous that they can af-<br/>
ford the periodical a little above the<br/>
price of the white sheet upon which it<br/>
is printed. Let Siam become a nation<br/>
of easy readers, and the Siamese Re-<br/>
corder would be offered at a penny a<br/>
paper, and every Siamese family have<br/>
one slipped under their door every<br/>
morning to discuss over a cosey break-<br/>
fast.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_2_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/centre >}}
For the Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Above the old city during the time<br/>
of high water we find quite a number<br/>
of branches of the main river, leading<br/>
in almost any direction a person wish-<br/>
es to go, but during the dry season<br/>
many of them are dry. Indeed now,<br/>
in many places you can go with a boat<br/>
directly across the rice fields without<br/>
following any particular channel. The<br/>
banks of the streams too, are freer<br/>
from jungle, than below the city, so<br/>
that a more extended view of the<br/>
fields can be obtained. The water on<br/>
the fields is in many places four and<br/>
five feet deep, but still the rice mana-<br/>
ges to keep above water, and at pre-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ment promises a most abundant crop.<br/>
Fish abound in great quantities all over<br/>
the fields, and we saw them playing<br/>
around our boat. Many are employ-<br/>
ed in fishing, and most of the pla-<br/>
chow we find in market in this city,<br/>
are brought from up the country. Ma-<br/>
ny of the farmers appear to be enjoy-<br/>
ing a holiday, waiting on the rice crop.<br/>
Others are engaged in collecting the<br/>
tough barks, used here for making<br/>
ropes, sewing rice bags, fastening the<br/>
chow to the posts in boating &c. The<br/>
Siamese call it paw. The wood is<br/>
sown annually like rice, and it grows<br/>
to the height of five, and six feet,<br/>
when it is collected and the bark<br/>
stripped off, and dried and brought to<br/>
market.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nokburi is distant from Ayuthia<br/>
about one day's travel on elephants,<br/>
but much farther by water, as the cur-<br/>
rent at this season of the year is so<br/>
strong, that a boat makes but slow<br/>
progress against it. Between the two<br/>
places there is no town of any impor-<br/>
tance. Maharat is the principle one,<br/>
and appears to be little more than a<br/>
fishing village. Every farming com-<br/>
munity however is a village. Instead<br/>
of settling down at respectable dis-<br/>
tances from each other, like farmers<br/>
do in western countries, so that they<br/>
can raise in peace, their own poultry,<br/>
and stock, we find them all huddled<br/>
up together, and so far as a European<br/>
can see, they have all things common.<br/>
Sometimes the back part of one man's<br/>
house, is placed close up to the front<br/>
of that of his neighbour. When we<br/>
come to inquire, however, we find, that<br/>
the inhabitants of most of those vil-<br/>
lages are closely related to each other,<br/>
and that the village had their origin<br/>
in a peculiar Siamese custom. When<br/>
a daughter gets married, according to<br/>
custom, the son-in-law must come and<br/>
build a house close to that of the wife's<br/>
parents, so that if a man has many<br/>
daughters, by the time they are all<br/>
married off, he is surrounded by quite<br/>
a village.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nokbari is at present an insignifi-<br/>
cant little place, containing perhaps<br/>
three thousand inhabitants. It has<br/>
however once from appearances, been<br/>
a place of some importance and has<br/>
been well fortified. The old wall is<br/>
visible in most places. Besides the<br/>
wall, and at some distance outside,<br/>
there is another kind of false wall with<br/>
gates, guarding the principle entrances<br/>
to the city.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Still further out another set of gates<br/>
guard the same entrances, with a ditch<br/>
extending around the city. It was<br/>
therefore well prepared for any of<br/>
those desultory attacks, from the sur-<br/>
rounding nations, formerly so common<br/>
in the east.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The city seems to have been orna-<br/>
mented and fortified principally by<br/>
Somdet Pra Narai who obtained the<br/>
throne about A. D. 1660, and under<br/>
whom a foreigner known in Siamese<br/>
history as Phya Witchayen, by his<br/>
obsequiousness rose finally to the<br/>
rank of Prime Minister, thus holding<br/>
in his hands chiefly the reins of gov-<br/>
ernment. According to some writers<br/>
his name was Constantine Phaulcon,<br/>
a servant of the East India Company,<br/>
who absconded in their debt, and came<br/>
to Siam, where he managed to get<br/>
hold of considerable funds belonging<br/>
to the company. Through the com-<br/>
bined influence of this man, and the<br/>
Jesuit Missionaries, an embassy was<br/>
sent to the court of Louis XIV, at the<br/>
head of which was that wonderful man<br/>
Nai Pan spoken of in the last Bang-<br/>
kok Calendar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Phaulcon built for himself a palace<br/>
on an elevated position at Nokburi,<br/>
the walls of which are still stan-<br/>
ding, but the whole place was so<br/>
grown over with weeds, and jungle,<br/>
that we could not approach it. It<br/>
must however have been a building of<br/>
considerable extent. The rise in fa-<br/>
vor and power of this man, appears<br/>
to have excited the jealousy of some<br/>
of the Siamese nobles, who ventured<br/>
to speak to the king about it. He<br/>
replied however, that a man of such<br/>
abilities, could not be overlooked.<br/>
The king also gave them an opportu-<br/>
nity of testing their abilities, in com-<br/>
parison with those of their rival. He<br/>
had a very heavy gun the weight of<br/>
which he desired to know, and called<br/>
upon some of his nobles to weigh it.<br/>
They however failed, as the gun was<br/>
so heavy, that it broke all their chains<br/>
and they could not suspend it. Wit-<br/>
chayen was then called upon and he<br/>
immediately ordered a boat to be<br/>
moored close to shore, and had the<br/>
gun placed on board the boat and<br/>
then marked the water line. The gun<br/>
was then removed and bricks were<br/>
loaded into the boat, until the same<br/>
water line was reached, and the bricks<br/>
were then taken out, and weighed in<br/>
separate lots. This feat established his<br/>
reputation as to superior ability.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He afterwards however excited the<br/>
anger of some of the nobles very much<br/>
by ordering the nains, or novices, and<br/>
some of the priests out of the wats to<br/>
do rachakan or government work.<br/>
This they considered an encroach-<br/>
ment upon their religion. Luang<br/>
Sarasat, a son of a former king by a<br/>
Laos Princess, accordingly stationed<br/>
himself at the entrance of the Royal<br/>
Palace, the day when Wit[?]chayen was<br/>
in waiting on the king, and when he<br/>
came out, struck him on the mouth,<br/>
and broke two of his teeth. He re-<br/>
ported the insult to the king, who<br/>
gave orders to have the offender arres-<br/>
ted but he fled to the capital, and<br/>
took refuge with his mother, who in-<br/>
terceded for him, and secured pardon.<br/>
After the death of Pra Narai however,<br/>
and accession of his successor, Wit-<br/>
chayen was murdered by this same<br/>
Luang Sarasat, and probably with the<br/>
consent of the king. He was in, as<br/>
usual, waiting upon the king, when<br/>
Luang Sarasat again awaited his com-<br/>
ing out, and stabbed him. The ruins<br/>
of Pra Narai's palace are but a short<br/>
distance from those of his Prime Min-<br/>
ister. His Majesty the present sover-<br/>
eign, has erected a new palace partly<br/>
upon the site of the old one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
About three miles from the town,<br/>
there are the ruins of an artificial lake,<br/>
said also to have been the work of<br/>
Pra Narai. There is an embankment,<br/>
in many places twenty feet above the<br/>
common level, upon three sides, and<br/>
the mountain formed the fourth side.<br/>
There was also a flood gate to let off<br/>
the superfluous water. In the centre<br/>
of the lake when full, there must have<br/>
been about five fathoms of water. It<br/>
appears to have been intended, to col-<br/>
lect the water, as it flowed down<br/>
from the mountain, during the rainy<br/>
season. It covers perhaps two hun-<br/>
dred seroes[?] in area, and must have been<br/>
a very pretty lake, containing fish<br/>
enough to supply the whole kingdom.<br/>
Rice is now flourishing in the centre<br/>
of the lake.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nokburi is now noted especially<br/>
for the quantity, and quality of its<br/>
custard apples, and many of those ex-<br/>
posed for sale in this city come from<br/>
there. The trees generally bear the<br/>
second year after planting.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The mountain of Prabat looms up<br/>
about twelve miles distant. A new<br/>
and direct road has been cut from<br/>
Nokburi to Prabat, which shortens<br/>
the distance considerably.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are also mountains quite near<br/>
to Nokburi, but the natives are averse<br/>
to visiting them in the wet season,<br/>
for fear of jungle fever, which they<br/>
attribute to the influence of the pees<br/>
or spirits.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An old Siamese man was drowned<br/>
this evening in crossing the Bangkok-<br/>
yai canal near the office of the Record-<br/>
der. He was in a small sampan used<br/>
for a ferry boat and several others<br/>
with him, when a larger sampan coming<br/>
into collision with the boat, capsized<br/>
it, and the old man sunk and could<br/>
not be found.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that three pirates have<br/>
recently been caught at Ban Taloo in<br/>
the Province of Petchaburee. The<br/>
particulars concerning the capture<br/>
have not yet come to our knowledge.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
An important case of assault and<br/>
battery has just been tried at the court<br/>
of H. E. Chow Phya Kalahome and<br/>
decided in favor of plaintiff. Several<br/>
Chinamen, it appears, in attempting to<br/>
seize a party charged with selling spi-<br/>
rits unlawfully, killed one man and<br/>
wounded many others. The China-<br/>
men seem not to have been legally au-<br/>
thorized to arrest the spirit venders, and<br/>
therefore were fined 320 Ticals, which<br/>
money was paid to the friends of the<br/>
person killed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We understand that all cases of liti-<br/>
gation connected with the spirit mono-<br/>
poly have to be tried at the court of<br/>
the Prime Minister because he stands<br/>
as security for the spirit farmer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have now come nearly to the<br/>
end of our wet season, and from all<br/>
the accounts that we can gather of it,<br/>
it has been remarkably propitious for<br/>
the forth-coming rice crop.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
HEALTH—-We are happy to learn<br/>
that the general health of the foreign<br/>
residents here is good. With the ex-<br/>
ception of a few slight colds, which<br/>
may be expected at this season of the<br/>
year, all are in the enjoyment of health,<br/>
or in a fair way of recovery.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam steamer “Chow Phya”<br/>
left for Singapore on the 30th ult.<br/>
having the following passengers, viz:<br/>
—-Messrs Romi de Montigny, Probst,<br/>
Lambert, and Littlejohn.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A very singular case has lately been<br/>
up for trial in the Naval Court of H.<br/>
B. M's. Consulate concerning the Eng-<br/>
lish Schooner Erin, which foundered<br/>
in the gulf on the eastern coast about<br/>
the middle of last August on her way<br/>
to Hongkong laden with rice. It ap-<br/>
pears that evidence of so grave a<br/>
character came out in the trial, that<br/>
the further investigation of the mat-<br/>
ter has been transferred to the higher<br/>
court at Singapore whither the parties<br/>
concerned have gone by the steamers<br/>
Chow Phya and Seewoon.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
POSTSCRIPT OCT. 5TH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We were happy to meet this morn-<br/>
ing Princess Somawadi the 7th child<br/>
of His Majesty the king of Siam being<br/>
carried on a royal sadan on the street<br/>
in front of H. E. Chow P'hya Kala-<br/>
home. Following her royal Highness<br/>
was H. E. the Prime Minister himself,<br/>
being attended by twenty or thirty<br/>
men neatly attired in full dress. They<br/>
were attending her royal Highness to<br/>
her state barge, and were going to ac-<br/>
company her, as we heard, on a plea-<br/>
sure excursion into the new canal<br/>
which is being cut from Bangkok to<br/>
Tachoon. It struck us as being a<br/>
very agreeable exhibition of Young<br/>
Siam, which does not think it unbe-<br/>
coming in the king to allow his<br/>
daughters as well as sons to leave the<br/>
royal palace occasionally, and move<br/>
about among the people in the city<br/>
and country, enjoying the change and<br/>
doing the hearts of the people good by<br/>
a sight of them.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Buddhist Superstitions.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Yesterday, in passing through the<br/>
temple Sumplum, our attention was<br/>
attracted by the immense company of<br/>
people there assembled. On inquir-<br/>
ing, we learned that an idol in that<br/>
temple was performing some strange<br/>
freaks, and giving to the faithful a<br/>
manifestation of its power. The<br/>
particular objects of interest seemed to<br/>
be a small recess or niche in a tall spire<br/>
near the temple, about fifty or sixty<br/>
feet from the ground where, it was<br/>
said, the glory could be seen.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We inquired of those who were gaz-<br/>
ing, what they saw. Some said, they<br/>
could see nothing, others said they<br/>
could see an image. We were told<br/>
that only those who had boon (merit)<br/>
could see the wonder. We concluded<br/>
therefore, that we must belong to the<br/>
unfortunate class who had no boon,<br/>
for, after close examination, we could<br/>
see nothing wonderful or different<br/>
from other spires built of brick and<br/>
mortar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It seems that, a few days ago, it<br/>
was announced by some one that a mir-<br/>
acle was to be seen at the temple. An<br/>
ancient and sacred image of Buddha<br/>
brought from a distant city, and de-<br/>
posited in that temple was giving out<br/>
a refulgence of light and glory that<br/>
was distinctly visible. The people<br/>
flocked to see it. Those with wonderful<br/>
perspicacity could see the image of<br/>
Buddha reflected upon the inner part<br/>
of the niche in the spire. They be-<br/>
lieved it to be a miracle. They knew<br/>
it must be caused by the sacred image<br/>
of Buddha enshrined in the temple<br/>
below. The news spread. The in-<br/>
fatnated populace rushed to the place<br/>
to worship, and present their offerings<br/>
at that sacred shrine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There they have been—-priests,<br/>
people, men, women and children—<br/>
coming and going for many days. To<br/>
add variety to the scene, there are<br/>
bands of music playing, and theatres<br/>
open to all. These, contrary to the<br/>
rules of Buddhist monasteries, were<br/>
crowded with yellow robed spectators.<br/>
Those who wish to gain merit must<br/>
make an offering. Consequently there<br/>
have been stands erected where tapers,<br/>
incense sticks, and gold leaf are retailed<br/>
to the worshippers. These places were<br/>
thronged. After purchasing their offer-<br/>
ing they would pass into the temple,<br/>
bow three times before the idol in wor-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ship,then come out and light the tapers<br/>
and offer them at the shrine. The<br/>
gold leaf was used for gilding the<br/>
idol. Every one, as he came in, laid<br/>
his offering of gold leaf on the idol,<br/>
smoothed it down with a cloth, then<br/>
placing his hands together raised<br/>
them to his head, bowed reverently<br/>
three times to the image, and then<br/>
retired. They doubtless thought they<br/>
were deriving great profit by loading<br/>
the idol with gold. We thought that,<br/>
perhaps, those who were selling gold<br/>
leaf &c. were deriving the largest<br/>
share of profit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We talked with several intelligent<br/>
looking Siamese men, and inquired<br/>
the nature of the phenomenon. They<br/>
could not exactly tell what it was, but<br/>
all seemed to think there was some-<br/>
thing wonderfully strange there, and<br/>
that it was caused by the power of<br/>
the idol. Unable to discover any<br/>
thing remarkable we passed on through<br/>
the dense crowd into the main street<br/>
that leads through market. All along<br/>
this street were small groups of peo-<br/>
ple standing gazing at the temple. Af-<br/>
ter going some distance we were a<br/>
gain induced, by curiosity, to turn and<br/>
look at the spire which could yet be<br/>
seen. We now saw the cause for all<br/>
this excitement and superstition. There<br/>
was an image, sure enough! It might<br/>
be the image of Buddha or Vishnu, or<br/>
what not, for it looked terrible enough<br/>
for any of them. But what was it?<br/>
It was nothing more than the imag-<br/>
inary image of a man formed by vari-<br/>
ous colors caused by the weather upon<br/>
the stucco or plastering in the niche!<br/>
A reddish yellow color (which is, with<br/>
the Siamese, a sacred color) formed<br/>
the body of the picture, and black, the<br/>
back ground. It took some time<br/>
for us to discover any resemblance of<br/>
an image there, but when once seen,<br/>
and with the image formed in the<br/>
mind, it was very easy to trace it. In-<br/>
deed, the longer we looked, the more<br/>
distinctly could we see the resemblance.<br/>
It reminded us of a puzzle picture we<br/>
once saw of Napoleon formed by two<br/>
trees. The puzzle was to trace the<br/>
image of a human face in the picture.<br/>
At first sight there appeared to be<br/>
nothing but two scraggy, indifferent<br/>
looking trees. But, after you succeed-<br/>
ed in tracing the image of the face,<br/>
you could see nothing else in it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese are credulous and su-<br/>
perstitious enough to believe that this<br/>
phenomenon, which may be seen any<br/>
day in the clouds or trees, is caused<br/>
by the power of the idol in that tem-<br/>
ple! There seems to be nothing too<br/>
absurd and ridiculous for them to be-<br/>
lieve in connection with their reli-<br/>
gion. Mount Prabat, where is fabled<br/>
to be the foot print of Buddha, is suffi-<br/>
cient proof of this. There, in a small<br/>
recess of that cragged volcanic rock,<br/>
they imagine they see the track of<br/>
Buddha's foot.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thousands and thousands annually<br/>
flock there to worship-—what? Pure-<br/>
ly an imaginary trace of a foot<br/>
print in the solid rock, which some<br/>
of the Siamese themselves have ad-<br/>
mitted to be an imposture by Prâ<br/>
Chow Sông T'am, who invented it to<br/>
gain great merit, and give prominence<br/>
to his name.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Prachai, a short distance from<br/>
Prabat, is another place where they<br/>
worship an imaginary shadow. This<br/>
is nothing more than a natural pheno-<br/>
menon of light and dark shades form-<br/>
ed by the weather on the face of the<br/>
rock. This, of course, is constantly<br/>
changing, but those who have been<br/>
can see in it a distinct shadow of their<br/>
object of worship.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At Petchaburi there is a temple<br/>
spire which the Siamese firmly be-<br/>
lieve never casts a shadow. This, they<br/>
think, is in some way, connected with<br/>
their religion, and is a miracle and<br/>
standing proof of its truth. We have<br/>
stood there in the full blaze of the<br/>
morning sun, and pointing to the dis-<br/>
tinct and well defined shadow tried to<br/>
convince them that they were believ-<br/>
ing what was not true, or rather disbe-<br/>
lieving what is true. No argument or<br/>
ocular demonstration could convince<br/>
them that that spire ever casts a sha-<br/>
dow. It was rather a massive spire, but<br/>
a few years ago it tumbled down, per-<br/>
haps, for want of a shadow! The<br/>
Siamese have commenced to rebuild<br/>
it. They estimated that it will re-<br/>
quire 12000 ticals to finish it. It is<br/>
reported that His Majesty is to con-<br/>
tribute 4000 ticals, and the balance to<br/>
be raised by contributions from the<br/>
people. Can any country or people be<br/>
called poor when they can lavish such<br/>
piles of money upon nothing?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is said to be a place in the<br/>
large cavern in the mountain called<br/>
Kow Hlwang near Petchaburi where<br/>
is a pile of small stones which you<br/>
may scatter in any direction, and up-<br/>
on returning the next day, will find<br/>
them all piled up in regular order as<br/>
though they had never been disturbed.<br/>
This, they believe to be accomplished,<br/>
not by human hands, but by a mira-<br/>
cle. It is also said that in Sam roy<br/>
yawt, a mountain on the west coast of<br/>
the gulf, there is a cave which con-<br/>
tains a pile of stones having this re-<br/>
markable quality of coming together<br/>
again after being scattered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Thus we might go on to enumerate<br/>
many other such instances of their<br/>
superstition. They can believe the<br/>
most ridiculous and absurd fancies of<br/>
their imagination, while that which<br/>
is truthful, real and substantial is re-<br/>
jected. Truly there are none so blind<br/>
as those who do not wish to see.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
It appears from the Rangoon Times<br/>
August 29th, that the great Mhine-<br/>
loongyee timber cases, for a long-time<br/>
under trial at Maulmain, producing<br/>
intense excitement, have at length been<br/>
decided by the Recorder in favor of<br/>
the Plaintiffs, Moung-Khine, T. D.<br/>
Finlay, Js. Finlay and John Mc Call,<br/>
versus R. C. Burn, Shway Gan, B.<br/>
Soadden.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
From another source we hear that<br/>
an appeal has been made to the court<br/>
at Calcutta.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_3_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Prices Current.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}EXCHANGE—[..] Singapore 6 P cent<br/>
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>RICE—</td>
 <td>Common cargo</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Fair</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Good</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">45</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">57</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">63</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Mill clean</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P pical.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>PADDY—</td>
 <td>Nasuan</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">44</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P coyan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Namuang</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">34</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEELSEED</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">85</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SUGAR—</td>
 <td>Superior</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P pical.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>White No. 3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9⅔</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BLACK PEPPER</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HIDES</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COW do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">18</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>BUFFALO HORNS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">15¾</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Black do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">29</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DEER do</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GUMBENJAMIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">180</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">65</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TIN</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">40</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">37</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>HEMP</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">22</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">20</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>COTTON—</td>
 <td>Cleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;"></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Uncleaned</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GAMBOOK—</td>
 <td>Nominally.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">70</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SILK</td>
 <td>Korat</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cochin China</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">800</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Cambodia</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">650</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>STICKLAC—</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">14½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">13</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>CARDAMUMS</td>
 <td>Best</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">325</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Bastard</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">38</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>SAPANWOOD—</td>
 <td>4@5 p.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"6@7 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>"8@9 """</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">1⅓</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>LUK KRABOW</td>
 <td>SEED</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>IVORY—</td>
 <td>4 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">360</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>5 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">330</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>6 pieces</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">300</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>DATED FISH</td>
 <td>Plabeng</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">12</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>Plaalit</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10¼</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>MUSSELS</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">9½</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>TEAKWOOD</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">10</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Yok.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>ROSEWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">200</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100 pls.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>REDWOOD</td>
 <td>No. 1</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">240</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td>No. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">120</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>MATBAGS</td>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P 100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>GOLDLEAF</td>
 <td>Tic.</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">"</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">17</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">P Ticals weight.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
premium 10
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
FREIGHTS—Small vessels are in demand,<br/>
and high rates may be expected. Previous<br/>
to the arrival of the mail the following<br/>
settlements were made, viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A. de Winter" 50 cents per pical all<br/>
round.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Peter" 45 cents inside and 40 cents<br/>
per pical outside.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Water Lily" sugar to Bombay at 95<br/>
cents per pical.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For Singapore demand active and rates<br/>
are from 35 to 40 cents per pical.—No dis-<br/>
engaged vessels in harbor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following vessels have sailed for<br/>
Hongkong since 13th Sept., viz:—
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Via Canning" with 1352 p., pepper,<br/>
6537 rice, 1062 mussels, 129 hemp, 430<br/>
cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Kim Chy Song" with 3213 pls. rice,<br/>
425 teelseed, 108 peas, 161 mussels, 19<br/>
cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Ingeborg" with 6617 pls. rice, 300<br/>
sugar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Chili" with 10000 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Dorothea" with 9455 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Carlota" with 6534 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Fairy" with 6000 pls. rice.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"A. de Winter" with 10900 pls. rice, 80<br/>
sapanwood, 82 cotton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following have sailed for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Verona" with 11826 pls. rice, 559 sa-<br/>
panwood, 522 teelseed, 85 peas, 722 cotton,<br/>
42 teak planks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Chow Phya" with 11 pls. horns, 5273<br/>
rice, 149 sugar, 596 teelseed, 360 salt fish,<br/>
38 onions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"St. Paul" with 193 pls. hides, 4541<br/>
rice, 106 sapanwood, 78 sugar, 744 teel-<br/>
seed, 85 mussels.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Onan Soon" with 1217 pls. rice, 474<br/>
paddy, 30 onions.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
[The following is a CLIF which a friend<br/>
of ours has taken from the CHICAGO TRI-<br/>
BUNE for the consideration of any who<br/>
wish to see how the accounts would stand<br/>
between the U. S. and Great Britain in<br/>
case indemnification be determined upon.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
An Offset.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A special despatch from Ottawa, the<br/>
capital of Canada, says :
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"In the Canadian Parliament yesterday<br/>
(June 22) Mr. Galt moved for the indem-<br/>
nification of the Government, by the Uni-<br/>
ted States, for the EXPENSES INCURRED<br/>
DURING THE RECENT FENIAN TROUBLES.<br/>
Several members of the Government party<br/>
advocated the move, when Mr. Chambers,<br/>
of Brockville, obtained the floor and spoke<br/>
against it. He said that Canada could not<br/>
support troops enough to resist the United<br/>
States. A thousand Fenians was a differ-<br/>
ent matter from 35,000,000 of Americans.<br/>
He also called for an investigation of the<br/>
conduct of the commanders of the Provin-<br/>
cial troops during the trouble, and denoun-<br/>
ced the management of the volunteers as<br/>
a blunder. Mr. Chambers was continually<br/>
interrupted and HISSED, the uproar be-<br/>
coming so great at times as to drown his<br/>
remarks. He was replied to by Mr. D'Arcy<br/>
McGee, and the motion of Mr. Galt WAS<br/>
ADOPTED."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
They are a droll set of wags, those Can-<br/>
ucks. The "motion of Mr. Galt was adopt-<br/>
ed, to demand indemnification from the<br/>
United States for expenses incurred during<br/>
the recent Fenian troubles." That's good.<br/>
And the hissing of the doubting Thomas—<br/>
that was capital. Oh, certainly, make out<br/>
your bill, gentlemen, and present it at the<br/>
State Department for payment. The Yan-<br/>
kees are ready to settle. But they have a<br/>
little off-set, however, which of course you<br/>
will allow. As the Canadians are British<br/>
subjects, and constitute a part of the "Brit-<br/>
ish Empire," whatever account Uncle Sam<br/>
may have against Mr. John Bull will be a<br/>
legitimate and lawful off-set, and neces-<br/>
sarily must be allowed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American counter claim will run<br/>
something like this:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
John Bull, Esq.,
To Uncle Sam, Dr.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
To depredations of British cruis-<br/>
ers on American commerce dur-<br/>
ing the rebellion.........$250,000,000<br/>
To Cotton loss to rebels...100,000,000<br/>
To aid given to the rebels in the<br/>
shape of arms, ammunition and<br/>
munitions of war, whereby the re-<br/>
bellion was prolonged two years..1,500,000,000<br/>
Principal of claim...............1,750,000,000<br/>
To three years interest on the same<br/>
at 7 per cent....................867,500,000<br/>
Total............................2,117,500,000
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Allowing the Canadian off-set of say<br/>
$500,000, the balance due from Mr. John<br/>
Bull is $2,117,000,000, which we hope it<br/>
will not be inconvenient for the old gen-<br/>
tleman to pay. The money will be applied<br/>
towards the liquidation of that portion of<br/>
the public debt incurred in consequence of<br/>
Mr. Bull's acts of "neutrality."
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Magnanimity.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
That the South has been treated with<br/>
all charity and fairness THE NATION well<br/>
shows in the following simple illustration:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Let us imagine a man living on a West-<br/>
ern settlement, carrying on a dispute at<br/>
law with a perverse neighbor. The latter,<br/>
beaten in every court, makes a desperate<br/>
attempt to take his adversary's life. He<br/>
drives him out of his home, burns up his<br/>
property, kills two or three of his sons,<br/>
fights long after the struggle both at law<br/>
and in muscle is clearly decided, doing<br/>
more mischief after his cause is hopeless<br/>
than ever before, and only yields when de-<br/>
prived of every weapon, and when resis-<br/>
tance is simply impossible. How many<br/>
then, having fought such a fight, and beaten<br/>
such an enemy, and, we will further sup-<br/>
pose, being allowed by law to take his life,<br/>
or at any rate his property, would say to<br/>
him, "You may go free. You may have<br/>
all your property, and I will pay two-thirds<br/>
of all my costs at law, though I have an<br/>
execution against you for the whole a-<br/>
mount. I forgive you ALL the past, on<br/>
one condition: your man Cuffee helped<br/>
me to whip you; you must now treat Cuf-<br/>
fee as well as I treat you, and he will help<br/>
you pay your share of the cost?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We say that no one man in a hundred<br/>
would act thus generously, either in Ameri-<br/>
ca or Europe. Yet this is exactly what<br/>
the Northern people have done to the<br/>
South, with substantial unanimity.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Temperance Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Major-General and Brigadier-General<br/>
Howard have joined the Sons of Temper-<br/>
ance......C. Edwards Lester, author of the<br/>
“Glory and Shame of England,” has be-<br/>
come a Temperance advocate. He lately<br/>
gave a touching account of his reformation<br/>
......Rev. B. W. Noel and Rev. C. H. Spur-<br/>
geon have enrolled themselves in the Tem-<br/>
perance ranks.......Rev. J. A. Davidson,<br/>
formerly in this State, is lecturing now in<br/>
Michigan.......A bill conferring on the Me-<br/>
tropolitan Health Board, in New York and<br/>
Brooklyn, the sole right to give or with-<br/>
hold licences, has passed the New York<br/>
Legislature. The new Board have fixed<br/>
the first-class license at two hundred and<br/>
fifty dollars, and the license of ale and beer<br/>
at one hundred dollars. No grocery is to<br/>
be licensed. It is expected that four thou-<br/>
sand out of ten thousand bars will be closed<br/>
by the Act.—-PACIFIC.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[From the China Overland Mail of the<br/>
11th Sept. we have the following items.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-CHMONG CHAT TAI, a notorious pirate,<br/>
was executed yesterday morning. He<br/>
made no confession before death, but<br/>
Hongkong may congratulate itself on be-<br/>
ing rid of so dangerous a scoundrel.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-The FLOODING ordinance seems to have<br/>
a beneficial effect on the returns of crime,<br/>
the number of prisoners having decreased<br/>
some 20 per cent, and that apparently<br/>
not, as a rule, from undue leniency on<br/>
the part of the Magistrates.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
-—FROM MANILA we learn that several<br/>
Chinese have been committed to prison<br/>
for bribing or attempting to bribe the<br/>
late Governor. The new Captain Gen-<br/>
eral seems to be "making an impression"<br/>
upon all classes and we wish him success<br/>
in his endeavours to purge that colony<br/>
from the evils, under which it has so long<br/>
suffered.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—-THE PERMISSION given to Japanese to<br/>
travel does not seem to have been intend-<br/>
ed as a fact. An English merchant, who<br/>
left last mail, was refused permission to<br/>
take his native servant with him on the<br/>
plea that the seal was not ready.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
News Items.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A QUARTZ lead has been discovered in<br/>
Lightning Gulch, Josephine country, Or-<br/>
egon, from which, according to the Jack-<br/>
sonville TIMES, $5,400 was taken out in<br/>
two hours. The contents of one pan<br/>
was $2,000! The lead is said to be per-<br/>
fectly yellow with gold. The name of<br/>
the lucky discoverer of this immense<br/>
wealth is Malichi.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The NAPA REGISTER says, the Califor-<br/>
nia Borax Company are said to be taking<br/>
out this useful substance at the rate of a<br/>
ton a day. Chinese labor is mostly used.<br/>
The company have a steam engine and<br/>
other machinery in the railroad depot<br/>
here, awaiting transportation to their<br/>
works. The borax all goes to market<br/>
by the way of Napa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TRUSTWORTHY advices from Texas,<br/>
Louisiana, Georgia, and Alabama, report<br/>
that planters are putting in cotton to the<br/>
full extent of their ability, and that in<br/>
some sections the amount of land that has<br/>
been assigned to cotton culture is greater<br/>
than ever before known. The fears of<br/>
a scarcity of seed have proved groundless,<br/>
as seed is found to be plenty, though<br/>
much of it is risky from being too old.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
DURING GEN. GRANT'S recent visit at<br/>
Richmond, the people flocked to see him,<br/>
and during his stay he was called upon<br/>
by such persons as Robert Ould, Ex-re-<br/>
bel Commissioner for exchange of prison-<br/>
ers ; Gen. Joseph Anderson, of the Tre-<br/>
degar Iron Works; Mayor Mayo, Gens.<br/>
Wickham and Henningsen, Judges Lyons<br/>
and Meredith, Hill Carter, Walter, Har-<br/>
rison, and many others. The ladies also<br/>
called upon Mrs. Grant freely. The<br/>
railroad company placed a special car at<br/>
his disposal, the Spottswood Hotel as-<br/>
signed him a large suite of rooms, the<br/>
Ballard House offered to do the same,<br/>
and every one vied to contribute to his<br/>
comfort and pleasure.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE BILL that passed the House,<br/>
Wednesday, to levy a duty of twenty per<br/>
cent on all live animals imported, was<br/>
meant to checkmate a trick of the Can-<br/>
ucks, who are driving their sheep into the<br/>
United States, shearing them so as to get<br/>
the wool in duty free, and then driving<br/>
them back.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AT THE usual conference of the Afri-<br/>
can Methodist Church, held at Washing-<br/>
ton, D. C. last week, a white brother was<br/>
ordained, but not without some opposition.<br/>
Some of the colored clergymen thought<br/>
a mixture of colors would not work well<br/>
in their church ; they had no prejudice<br/>
against color, but were not sure that a<br/>
white clergyman would be acceptable to<br/>
a colored church. The majority, how-<br/>
ever, thought it a good thing to have a<br/>
mixture of colors, and Rev. James Reed<br/>
said, "Let us show that we do not dis-<br/>
respect a man on account of color."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE TREASURY Department has re-<br/>
ceived through the United States Consul<br/>
at Brimingham, England, $4,500 in gold,<br/>
which was subscribed by the citizens of<br/>
that place for the benefit of the freed<br/>
race of this country.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_12 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED beg to in-<br/>
form the public that they have re-<br/>
ceived direct from Europe, by the<br/>
“Emmanuel” a large stock of all<br/>
kinds of dry goods and liquids, Eng-<br/>
lish and German beer, articles for ship-<br/>
chandlers, provision, glass, hard, and<br/>
earthenware, Havana cigars and cigarets,<br/>
jams, fruit and confectionary.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND & D. HENRY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-26_3_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LITHOGRAPHIC
PRESS.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
JUST received and for sale by the<br/>
undersigned, one 22 inch litho:<br/>
graphic press complete with four stones,<br/>
six rollers, two rules, and other etcetras,<br/>
including ink, varnish, and turnkey<br/>
sponge, price for the whole ($300)<br/>
three hundred dollars nett cash.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Singapore 22nd Sept. 1866.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
ROBINSON & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-09-13_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
NAI RAWT would hereby inform<br/>
the public that he is prepared to<br/>
paint pictures of the peculiar fruits<br/>
flowers, and leaves of the country in a<br/>
style which he has been encouraged to<br/>
hope will be quite acceptable.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His place of residence is on the Ca-<br/>
nal Padoong krasem opposite Wat Kok<br/>
near the ricefields on the east side.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The prices of the several pictures<br/>
are as follows.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A branch with fruit and flowers is<br/>
1 Tical. But if the buyer takes sev-<br/>
eral pictures of the same kind the<br/>
price will be only ½ of a Tical
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the buyer wishes a compound pic-<br/>
ture of several branches, having several<br/>
kinds of fruit, the price will be 2 Tic-<br/>
als. And if of such pictures several<br/>
be taken the price will be 1½ Ticals.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the purchaser must furnish the<br/>
paper for the pictures.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
If the purchaser wishes to have the<br/>
interior of the fruit represented it shall<br/>
be done
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_14 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been<br/>
appointed Agents for the above<br/>
Company, are prepared to accept risks,<br/>
and to grant policies on the usual<br/>
terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1866. (tf)
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_5 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Union Hotel.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE OLDEST
ESTABLISHED HOTEL
IN BANGKOK.
Billiard Tables and Bowling
Alleys are attached to the
Establishment.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
P. CARTER, 
Proprietor.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-06-07_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
AN English and Siamese Voca-<br/>
bulary, a valuable assistant<br/>
to any one studying either lan-<br/>
guage is for sale, either at this of-<br/>
fice or the printing office of the<br/>
Presbyterian Mission.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok, 7th June 1866.<br/>
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-02_4_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. W. H. Hamilton holds my<br/>
Power-of-Attorney, from this<br/>
date, to transact my business dur-<br/>
ing my absence.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok July 31st 1866.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
G. W. VIRGIN.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-05-31_2_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
CORRECTION.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In the Tide Table of the<br/>
Bangkok Calendar for<br/>
1866 for May, June, Au-<br/>
gust, and October, for High<br/>
read Low, and for Low<br/>
read HIGH.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE partnership hitherto existing<br/>
between DOMINIQUE REMI DE<br/>
MONTIGNY and EDWARD SCHMIDT under<br/>
the style or firm of REMI SCHMIDT & Co<br/>
and carrying on the business of general<br/>
merchants at Shanghai, Yokohama,<br/>
Bangkok and London has been this<br/>
day dissolved by mutual consent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY,
E. SCHMIDT
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_9 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/text >}}
IN consequence of the dissolution of<br/>
partnership announced above, the<br/>
Undersigned gives notice that he has<br/>
taken over the interest and responsi-<br/>
bility of the late firm of REMI, SCHMIDT<br/>
& Co. in Shanghai, Bangkok and Lon-<br/>
don. Mr. T. M. ALLOIN is authorised<br/>
to sign his name per procuration.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th. August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-08-30_3_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WITH reference to the above,<br/>
all persons having any claims<br/>
on the undersigned will present them-<br/>
selves for payment, and all persons<br/>
indebted to them are requested to pay<br/>
on or before the 15th of October next,<br/>
or the bills will be left for collection.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI SCHMIDT & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok 30th August 1866.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-04-26_4_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Bangkok Dock Company's
New Dock.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THIS Magnifican Dock-—is<br/>
now ready to receive Vessels of<br/>
any burthen and the attention of<br/>
Ship Owners, agents and Masters<br/>
is respectfully solicited to the<br/>
advantages for Repairing and<br/>
Sparring Vessels which no other<br/>
Dock in the East can offer.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The following description of<br/>
the Premises is submitted for the<br/>
information of the public.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dimensions and Depth of<br/>
wa-ter being:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Length</td>
 <td>300 {{< news/indent2 >}} feet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td></td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">( to be extended</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Breadth</td>
 <td>100 feet.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">Depth of Water</td>
 <td>15 "</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with a Cais-<br/>
son, has a splendid entrance of<br/>
120 feet from the River with a<br/>
spacious Jetty on each side, where<br/>
Vessels of any size may lay at<br/>
any state of the 'Tides, to lift Masts,<br/>
Boilers etc—with Powerful Lifting<br/>
Shears which are now in the<br/>
course of construction.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Dock is fitted with Steam<br/>
Pumps of Great power insuring<br/>
Dispatch in all states of the Tides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
WORKSHOPS.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workshops comprise the<br/>
different departments of Ship-<br/>
wrights, Mast and Block Makers,<br/>
Blacksmiths, Engineers, Found-<br/>
ry, etc.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The whole being superintended<br/>
by Europeans who have had many<br/>
years experience in the different<br/>
branches.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Workmen are the best<br/>
picked men from Hongkong and<br/>
Whampoa.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company draws particular<br/>
attention to the Great advantages<br/>
this Dock offers, being in a Port<br/>
where the best Teak and other<br/>
Timber can be had at the cheapest<br/>
cost.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Steam Saw Mill is also in<br/>
connection with the Dock to insure<br/>
dispatch in work.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Keel Blocks are 4 feet in<br/>
height and can be taken out or<br/>
shifted without cutting or causing<br/>
any expense to ships having to<br/>
get them removed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Company is also prepared<br/>
to give estimates or enter into<br/>
Contracts for the repairs of Wood-<br/>
en or Iron Ships; or the Building<br/>
of New Ships, Steam Boats, etc.<br/>
or any kind of work connected<br/>
with shipping.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All Material supplied at Market<br/>
price. Vessels for Docking may<br/>
lay at the Company's Buoys or<br/>
Wharf free of charge until ordered<br/>
to remove by the Superintendent.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Captains of Vessels before leav-<br/>
ing the Dock must approve and<br/>
sign three—-Dockage Bills.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All communications respecting<br/>
the docking to be addressed to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
W. J. ROBERTSON,
SUPERINTENDENT.
Bangkok 8th. Sept. 1865.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_25 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MENAM ROADS,
AND BANGKOK, MAIL
REPORT BOAT.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE Mail and Report Boat leaves UNION<br/>
HOTEL Daily and returns from Paknam,<br/>
with Passengers and Mails from outside<br/>
the Bar the same day.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Terms:
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters for non-subscribers.... $1.00<br/>
Passage to or from the Bar...."5.00<br/>
Special boats to or from the Bar,"10.00.<br/>
Ships supplied with stock at
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
short notice.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
DYER & CO.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok, 3rd Aug. 1865. (t.f.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_4 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED BEGS to<br/>
inform the Ship owners and<br/>
Agents of Bangkok, that he has<br/>
been appointed Surveyor to the<br/>
Register Marine or Internation-<br/>
al Lloyd's and is prepared to grant<br/>
Certificates of Classification on<br/>
Vessels according to their rules.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
DANIEL MACLEAN.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-07-05_3_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ANGHIN SANITARIUM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
This delightful establishmout<br/>
has been erected at a cost of Five<br/>
thousand dollars ($5000) of which<br/>
one thousand ($1000) was graci-<br/>
ously granted by His Majesty the<br/>
king.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The dwelling is substantially<br/>
built of brick with a tile roof, has<br/>
two stories, the lower containing<br/>
seven rooms, the upper five, with<br/>
Bath and Cookrooms attached.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/table >}}
<tr>
 <td>Length</td>
 <td>8</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">Siamese fathoms.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Breadth</td>
 <td>6</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
<tr>
 <td>Height</td>
 <td>3</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">do</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/table >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The house is furnished with<br/>
two bedsteads, one single, one<br/>
do’oule, two couches, two wash-<br/>
hand stands complete, one dozen<br/>
chairs, one table, two large bath-<br/>
room jars and two globe lamps.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Other necessaries must be sup-<br/>
plied by visitors themselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Two watchmen are engaged to<br/>
sweep the house and grounds, as<br/>
also to fill the bathroom jars with<br/>
either salt or fresh water as direct-<br/>
ed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
His Excellency the Prime Min-<br/>
ister built the Sanitarium for the<br/>
convenience and comfort, of such<br/>
of the European community who<br/>
may from time to time require<br/>
change of air to recruit their<br/>
health.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Permission for admittance to be<br/>
made in writing to His Excellen-<br/>
cy the Premier, stating the time<br/>
of occupation.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok 5th July. 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-01-13_4_10 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Printing Office
OF THE
AMERICAN MISSIONARY
ASSOCIATION,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Is situated behind the upper
Fort, near the palace of
H. R. H. PRINCE KROM HLUANG
WONJSA DERAT
at the mouth of the large Canal
Bangkok-Yai
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
All orders for Book & small-<br/>
er Job Printing, in the Euro-<br/>
pean and Siamese Languages,<br/>
will here be promptly & neatly<br/>
executed, and at as moderate<br/>
prices as possible.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A Book-Bindery is connect-<br/>
ed with the Office, where Job<br/>
work in htis Department will<br/>
be quickly and carefully per-<br/>
formed.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There are kept on hand a<br/>
supply of Boat Notes, Mani-<br/>
fests, Blank Books, Copy Books,<br/>
Elementary Books in English<br/>
and Siamese, Siamese Laws,<br/>
Siamese History, Siamese Gra-<br/>
mmar, Journal of the Siamese<br/>
embassy to London, Geogra-<br/>
phy and History of France in<br/>
Siamese, Prussian Treaty &c.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The subscriber respectfully<br/>
solicits the public patronage.<br/>
And he hereby engages that his<br/>
charges shall be as moderate as<br/>
in any other Printing Office<br/>
supported by so small a Fore-<br/>
ign community.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Small jobs of translating<br/>
will also be performed by him.<br/>
BANGKOK, Jan. 14th 1865.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
D. B. Bradley
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_6 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
FRANCIS CHIT.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
BEGS to inform the Resident and Foreign<br/>
community, that he is prepared to take<br/>
Photographs of all sizes and varieties, at<br/>
his floating house just above Santa Cruz.<br/>
    He has on hand, for sale, a great variety<br/>
of Photographs of Palaces, Temples, build-<br/>
ings, scenery and public men of Siam.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January, 1865.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Parties can be waited on at their
Residences.
Terms—Moderate.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
