---
linkTitle: 'January 16th, 1867'
title: 'Bangkok Recorder (English) - January 16th, 1867'
description: 'Bangkok Recorder (English); January 16th'
date: 2025-12-14T00:00:01Z
draft: false
type: news
weight: 75
---
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_4_0 -->
{{< news/headerLogo >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_1 -->
{{< news/headerDate >}}
<tr>
 <td style="text-align: left;">VOL. 2</td>
 <td style="text-align: center;">BANGKOK, WEDNESDAY, January 16th, 1867.</td>
 <td style="text-align: right;">No. 52.</td>
</tr>
{{< /news/headerDate >}}
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegrams.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 19th Nov.—-General Sher-<br/>
man remains in Mexico until Juarez is<br/>
established. Prussia has declined to<br/>
enter into a Commercial Treaty with<br/>
Austria. Delay in restoration of North<br/>
Schleswig to Denmark forms topic of<br/>
discussion. Princess Dagmar is ill.<br/>
Marriage festivities suspended.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Terrible hurricane at Nassau.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
(Dagmar) to the Czaremnitz (Czare-<br/>
witch) took place yesterday.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Amnesty procligd (proclaimed) in<br/>
favor of Cretan insurgents.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Forty-two students arrested in Par-<br/>
is during Fetes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Lord Cranbourne offered the Bis-<br/>
hopric of Calcutta to Doctor Attudy,<br/>
Dean of Leeds, who has declined it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The question of indemnity to A-<br/>
merica for depredations of Alabama,<br/>
is under consideration of Government.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London November 21st (Morning)<br/>
-—Mr. S. Fitzgerald gazetted Govern-<br/>
or of Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Great Reform Banquet given at<br/>
Manchester.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Emperor of Austria promises Hun-<br/>
gary responsible Ministry when dif-<br/>
ficulties have been arranged.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Efforts are making to compromise<br/>
differences between Johnson and the<br/>
Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Decided that Maximillian quits<br/>
Mexico.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, November 27th (Morn-<br/>
ing)-—Morning Herald states Mr.<br/>
Adams received (revived !) question<br/>
of “Alabama” claims in a most con-<br/>
ciliatory and friendly tone.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Government authorize Reform meet-<br/>
ings of Trades Unions on Primrose<br/>
Hill.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Neill Brothers estimate the Ameri-<br/>
can Crop at 2,000,000 Bales.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fenian outbreak in Ireland appre-<br/>
hended-—three Regiments despatched<br/>
thither.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, Nov, 29th (Afternoon)—-<br/>
Reported that General Sherman goes<br/>
to Mexico as fore-runner to an Army<br/>
of Occupation. Federals have occupied<br/>
Matamoras. Maximilian believed to<br/>
be on his way to Europe.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 4th Dec.—-Trades Reform<br/>
demonstration passed off quietly. Wea-<br/>
ther wet. Procession formed of 25,000<br/>
people. America.—-President John-<br/>
son's message to Congress “reviewed<br/>
“former Policy of which he urges ad-<br/>
“option. Receipts for year exceed out-<br/>
“lay by 158,000,000 Dollars. For-<br/>
“eign nations of Europe had shown<br/>
“more just appreciation of the national<br/>
“character and rights of the Ameri-<br/>
“cans. France intimated postponement<br/>
“of withdrawal of French troops from<br/>
“Mexico until Spring. United States<br/>
“however remonstrated and expressed<br/>
“hope that France would reconsider<br/>
“the subject and conform as nearly as<br/>
“practicable to the exisiting arrange-<br/>
“ments and thus meet the just expecta-<br/>
“tions of American people.” Johnson<br/>
concluded by stating to Congress that<br/>
the adjustment of Alabama claims<br/>
was slow, partly owing to change of<br/>
Ministry. England has accepted the<br/>
claims now being considered in a be-<br/>
coming and friendly spirit.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
London, 6th Decr.—-Two more Re-<br/>
giments ordered to Ireland. Fenian<br/>
movements continue. Bismarck has<br/>
recovered. Preparations ordered by<br/>
France for withdraw of Troops from<br/>
Mexico. Decrease in Reserve of Bank<br/>
of England Notes £ 142,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Summary.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
From Overland Mail 26th Nov.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hungarian Diet has been opened.<br/>
The Emperor's address does not satisfy<br/>
the Hungarians.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It appears to be still doubtful wheth-<br/>
er the insurrection in Candia is com-<br/>
pletely suppressed. The relations be-<br/>
tween Turkey and Greece are in a cri-<br/>
tical state.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The news from Spain still indicates<br/>
an impending revolution. The Queen<br/>
has declared that she will make no<br/>
concessions.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is reported that an attempt is<br/>
being made to effect a reconciliation<br/>
between President Johnson and the<br/>
Congress.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Colonel Ord, C. B., has been ap-<br/>
pointed Governor of the Straits Set-<br/>
tlements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is generally believed that the Em-<br/>
peror Maximilian has abdicated and<br/>
quitted Mexico. General Sherman and<br/>
Mr. Campbell have left New York for<br/>
Vera Cruz.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Paris correspondent of the<br/>
Morning Herald' states that the Em-<br/>
peror Napoleon has invented a new<br/>
gun, a breech-loading rifled four-poun-<br/>
der. Is it extremely light and is to be<br/>
supplied in large quantities to the<br/>
army. It is contemplated to transform<br/>
the heavy cavalry into horse artillery.<br/>
Armed with this new gun the French<br/>
army would thus be provided with a<br/>
weapon that would far exceed in its<br/>
destructive effects thePrussian zund-<br/>
nadelgewehr. These guns are prov-<br/>
ed at Vincennes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
RUSSIA.—-The wedding of the<br/>
Csarewitch has been celebrated by a<br/>
comprehensive amnesty to political<br/>
and other offenders. The Prince of<br/>
Wales has been splendidly entertained<br/>
at St. Petersburg, and is now visiting<br/>
Moscow.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_6 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Borneo.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Borneo, with the exception of Austra-<br/>
lia (now denominated a continent) is the<br/>
largest and richest island in the world;<br/>
it extends from 7° North latitude to 4°<br/>
South and from 109° to 119° East longi-<br/>
tude. Its broad and deep rivers abound<br/>
in fish; its forests are stored with the choi-<br/>
cest timber, spice, fruit, and medicinal<br/>
trees; its plains are fertile and produce<br/>
in abundance with the slightest cultiva-<br/>
tion Sugar-cane, Cotton, Rice, Pepper,<br/>
Tobacco, and other tropical productions;<br/>
its mines yield Tin, Copper, Coal, Anti-<br/>
mony, diamonds and silver; auriferous<br/>
ranges similar to and a continuation of<br/>
those of Australia extend, according to<br/>
Sir R. Murchison, through its centre un-<br/>
til they are lost among the numerous is-<br/>
lands in the southern Indian Archipela-<br/>
go; deer, wild cattle, and hogs, and ele-<br/>
pha nts, roam through its gorgeous jun-<br/>
gles; its beaches are covered with turtle;<br/>
while the pearl banks and beeche-de-mere<br/>
fisheries, the edible birds' nests and gums,<br/>
are peculiar to itself and are unequalled<br/>
elsewhere. Its climate is salubrious, far<br/>
more so than any other localities in the<br/>
same latitudes, attributable probably to<br/>
the elevation of its table lands, and the<br/>
immediate rise of the shore from the sea.<br/>
The interior of the island is inhabited by<br/>
the aboriginal tribes called, indifferently,<br/>
Dyaks, Muruts, and Idaan. The sea<br/>
shore on the western side is held by Ma-<br/>
lays, Illanuns and Badjoes, on the East-<br/>
ern by Salus and a mixed race. The<br/>
aborigines are of a similar race to the<br/>
inhabitants of the surrounding islands,<br/>
and also New Guinea, New Caledonia,<br/>
and the Feejees, Pagan in religion, sav-<br/>
age and blood thirsty in nature, with a<br/>
tendency to cannibalism, but faithful to<br/>
their words and courteous in conduct to<br/>
travelers who treat them kindly and<br/>
manifest no fear of them. The residents<br/>
on the sea shore acquired their position<br/>
by right of conquest, and hold it even<br/>
now, after the lapse of nearly two cen-<br/>
turies, at the point of the spear. The<br/>
advantages of trade however serve to<br/>
keep up a sort of peace, or rather armed<br/>
neutrality, each being dependent on the<br/>
other, one for cargo, the other for cus-<br/>
tomers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Borneo was very little known to Euro-<br/>
peans until the year 1839 when Captain<br/>
Brooke visited and established himself<br/>
in the province of Sarawak. This was<br/>
followed soon after by Sir Thomas Coch-<br/>
rane's crusade against the Malay and<br/>
Illanun pirates, the destruction of Brunei,<br/>
Tampasuk and Maroodu, the complete<br/>
overthrow of the pirate holds, the down<br/>
fall of the Sultan's power, and the ces-<br/>
sion of the island of Labuan to the Brit-<br/>
ish Crown, the particulars of which will<br/>
be found set forth at length in Rajah<br/>
Brooke's published journal. In 1841 Mr.<br/>
Brooke was appointed Rajah of Sarawak<br/>
by the late Sultan Omar Ali Saifeddin,<br/>
and in 1863, his authority was formally<br/>
recognized by Great Britain and the<br/>
United States.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Slavery exists in Borneo, but in a very<br/>
mild way, as it is ever found among Ma-<br/>
homedans. In this respect the Moslem<br/>
religion fairly puts the Christian to the<br/>
blush. It has of course been abolished<br/>
in Sarawak and Labuan and will doubt-<br/>
less soon be in Ambong and Maroodu.<br/>
The timber of Borneo is of the finest<br/>
description and can be procured at a<br/>
very small expense, in unlimited quanti-<br/>
ties—the entire demand of all Chinas<br/>
might be readily satisfied from this source<br/>
alone on far easier terms than those from<br/>
any other quarter.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Borneo is mountainous throughout its<br/>
entire length, though more so from Bar-<br/>
ram point to the extreme northern point,<br/>
but the magnificent mountain of Kins-<br/>
Balu, 13,000 feet high, towers proudly<br/>
above all the rest as a Brobdignagian<br/>
chieftain lords it over Lilliputian serfs.<br/>
This noble peak is distinctly visible in a<br/>
clear day over 60 miles at sea, possesses<br/>
rich stores of minerals in its mighty<br/>
womb, and is destined at no very distant<br/>
day, to contain the favorite shrine of<br/>
Hygein, to which all her eager votaries<br/>
from the lower parts of the China Sea<br/>
will hasten to pay their humble adoration.<br/>
Mr. Low, the Colonial Treasurer of La-<br/>
buan, whose explorations in Borneo, and<br/>
valuable contributions to the cause of<br/>
Science therefrom, have inseparably link-<br/>
ed his name with the scientific history of<br/>
the island, ascended this mountain sever-<br/>
al times, and was the first to introduce<br/>
to the notice of the botanical world the<br/>
magnificent Nepenthis or Pitcher plant,<br/>
a flower peculiar to this mountain; of all<br/>
the species the Nepenthis Lowii is the<br/>
loveliest and most graceful. The lowest<br/>
temperature registered by him was 36°5,<br/>
Fahrenheit, upon the summit. A Sana-<br/>
tarium on the Marei-Parei Spur, at about<br/>
4,800 feet elevation, would be a most<br/>
delightful resort for the debilitated and<br/>
fever stricken patients of the East. The<br/>
climate is delightful, the average of tem-<br/>
perature is, at daylight 56°: at midday<br/>
75°, and at sunset 63°
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The principal products peculiar to<br/>
Borneo AS FAR AS YET DISCOVERED, are<br/>
the fine white birds' nests, baru camphor<br/>
gum damar. The entire supplies of the<br/>
former comestible are now derived from<br/>
this island; inferior qualities, mixed with<br/>
feathers, are still brought from other<br/>
parts of the Archipelago, but the fine<br/>
quality of nests is Bornean. The baru<br/>
camphor is too well known in the markets<br/>
here, to require particular description,<br/>
but the uninitiated will form an idea of<br/>
its strength and fine quality, when they<br/>
learn that while Formosan, or the ordi-<br/>
nary camphor of commerce, is worth in<br/>
this market some $20 per PICUL, Bornean<br/>
camphor sells readily at $36 per CATTY.<br/>
The gum damar abounds, is of a very<br/>
clear, white color, and differs in superi-<br/>
ority of quality from the ordinary damar<br/>
of the Malay peninsula. The other ar-<br/>
ticles of export are gutta percha, Indian<br/>
rubber, gum Benjamin, rattans, cubebs,<br/>
cassia bark, sago, pepper, wax, cotton,<br/>
rice, tortoise shell, pearls, beche de mer,<br/>
ivory, tobacco, spices mahogany, lignum<br/>
vitæ, (abastard species) Puon and cam-<br/>
phor wood.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Nothing but the unconquerable indo-<br/>
lence of the natives prevents this Coun-<br/>
try from being the centre of a traffic, as<br/>
far superior to that of China and Singa-<br/>
pore as a mountain surpasses in magni-<br/>
tude a mole hill. The decline of North-<br/>
ern Borneo as a great commercial em-<br/>
porium, dates from the expulsion and<br/>
extermination of the Chinese, who once<br/>
possessed and civilized nearly the whole<br/>
of the Northern sea Coast, both on the<br/>
Eastern and Western shores. Their own<br/>
arrogance and presumption led to their<br/>
overthrow, and it is estimated that up-<br/>
wards of 60,000 perished under the<br/>
creeses and parangs of the warlike Ma-<br/>
lays, whom they had endeavored to brow-<br/>
beat and oppress. Traces of their oc-<br/>
cupation are every where found, and<br/>
even the language and religion linger<br/>
among the inhabitants of the interior.<br/>
The Chinese can only exist out of China<br/>
in peace, as a servile race: if allowed<br/>
any ascendancy, or even equality with<br/>
other races, murder and rapine at once<br/>
assume the sway. Witness the districts<br/>
of their own country, where the yoke of<br/>
the Tartar conqueror is in the least de-<br/>
gree lightened or becomes weakened,<br/>
the Taeping or Nienfei springs into ex-<br/>
istence at once. Witness the Chinese<br/>
insurrection at Sarawak, in 1857, when<br/>
Rajah Brooke was reduced to such ex-<br/>
tremity, as to be compelled to swim a<br/>
small river to save his life; and nothing<br/>
but the opportune arrival of the Borneo<br/>
Company's steamer saved the European<br/>
population from extermination nor was<br/>
it until upwards of 7,000 Chinese had<br/>
fallen under the spears and sumpitans of<br/>
his gallant Dyak warriors, that he was<br/>
enabled to recover his authority and<br/>
drive the remnant of the rebels across<br/>
the frontier into Sambas. Witness Hong-<br/>
kong, where since the introduction of<br/>
Exeter Hall ethics, and the decoration<br/>
of the seats of Justice with festoons of<br/>
red tape, the public streets at certain<br/>
points are tabooed to the European un-<br/>
provided with a revolver, and where<br/>
pirates' craft are fitted out, with the<br/>
scarcely-concealed intention of preying<br/>
upon the peaceful trader leaving the<br/>
harbor, and returning expose, unchecked,<br/>
the fruits of their raid publicly in the<br/>
bazaars for sale, still stained with the<br/>
blood of their murdered victims. No!<br/>
the Chinese are neither pleasant neigh-<br/>
bors nor good colonists, and better far<br/>
that the sensual doctrines of Mahomet<br/>
or the rude creed of the honest unbe-<br/>
liever should prevail in Borneo, than the<br/>
polished barbarism and refined wicked-<br/>
ness of the Buddhist should hold sway.<br/>
The Moslem and the Idolater may be<br/>
honestly converted from the error of<br/>
their ways, a votary of Buddha seldom<br/>
or never.—Ov. CHINA MAIL.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Gait, an Indication of
Character.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Observing persons move slow, their<br/>
heads move alternately from side to side<br/>
while they occasionally stop and turn<br/>
round. Careful people lift their feet<br/>
high and place them down flat and firm.<br/>
Sometimes they stoop down, pick up<br/>
some little obstruction and place it quiet-<br/>
ly by the side of the way. Calculating<br/>
persons generally walk with their hands<br/>
in their pockets and their heads slightly<br/>
inclined. Modest persons generally step<br/>
softly for fear of being observed. Timid<br/>
persons often step off from a sidewalk<br/>
on meeting another, and always go round<br/>
a stone instead of stepping over it. Wide<br/>
awake persons "toe out," and have a<br/>
long swing to their arms, while they<br/>
shake about miscellaneously.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Careless people are for ever stubbing<br/>
their toes. Lazy persons scrape about<br/>
loosely with their heels, and are first on<br/>
one side of the walk and then on the<br/>
other. Very strong minded persons have<br/>
their toes directly in front of them, and<br/>
have a kind of stamp movement. Un-<br/>
stable persons walk fast and slow by<br/>
turns. Venturous persons try all roads,<br/>
frequently climb the fences instead of<br/>
going through the gate, and never let<br/>
down a bar. One idea persons and very<br/>
selfish ones "toe in."—-Cross persons are<br/>
apt to hit their knees together.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Good-natured persons snap their fing-<br/>
ers every few steps. Fun loving people<br/>
have a kind of jig movement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Reductio ad Absurdum.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"He who would thrive must rise at<br/>
five." So says the proverb, though there<br/>
is more rhyme than reason in it; for if,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who would thrive must rise at five,<br/>
it must follow, naturally,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who'd thrive more must rise at<br/>
four; and it will insure a consequence<br/>
that,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
He who'd still more thriving be,<br/>
Must leave his bed at turn of three:<br/>
And who this latter must outdo,<br/>
Will rouse him at the stroke of two.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And, by way of climax to it all, it<br/>
should be held good that<br/>
He who'd never be outdone,<br/>
Must ever rise as soon as one.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But the best illustration would be<br/>
He who'd flourish best of all,<br/>
Should never go to bed at all.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_9 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Sharp Advice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
GENERAL C-—gave his black man,<br/>
Sawney, funds and permission to get a<br/>
quarter's worth of zoology at a mena-<br/>
gerie, at the same time hinting to him<br/>
the striking affinity between the Simia<br/>
and negro races. Our sable friend soon<br/>
found himself under the canvass, and<br/>
brought up in front of a sedate-looking<br/>
baboon, and eyeing the biquadruped<br/>
closely, soliloquized thus:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Folks, sure's your boun; feet, hands,<br/>
proper bad countenance, just the nigger<br/>
gettin' old, I reckon.” Then, as if seized<br/>
with a bright idea, he extended his hand<br/>
with a genuine Southern “How d'ye do<br/>
uncle?” The ape clasped the negro's<br/>
hand and shook it long and cordially.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sawney then plied his new acquain-<br/>
tance with interrogations, but eliciting<br/>
no replies beyond a knowing shake of<br/>
the head or a merry twinkle of the eye,<br/>
(the ape was probably meditating the<br/>
best way of tweaking the darkey's nose,)<br/>
he concluded that the ape was bound to<br/>
keep noncommittal, and looking cauti-<br/>
ously around, chuckled out: “He, he,<br/>
ye too sharp for them, old feller, keep<br/>
dark; if ye'd jist speak one word of Eng-<br/>
lish, white man have a hoe in yer hand<br/>
in less than two minutes.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_10 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Scotch Minstrels.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
M. D. Conway, in closing a letter to<br/>
the ROUND TABLE, from Scotland, says:<br/>
It is a considerable compensation for<br/>
much discomfort, that one finds every<br/>
evening male and female minstrels—<br/>
generally a violinist and a woman's voice<br/>
—singing sweetly all the Scottish ballads.<br/>
These are the only concerts that the peo-<br/>
ple have here, and they gather around<br/>
these minstrels in large crowds, nearly<br/>
all giving a penny or half penny. There<br/>
is a woman who sings every evening un-<br/>
der our window, who has such a beautiful<br/>
voice that I am sure it would have made<br/>
her fortune had she been born in Italy.<br/>
She sings without ever getting out of<br/>
voice, the dear old ballads of her country,<br/>
and with an indescribable pathos.—She<br/>
is seemingly the daughter of a grey-haired<br/>
old man, who goes about with her and<br/>
accompanies her voice tenderly with his<br/>
violin. She is about twenty years of age,<br/>
and has a sweet, homely Scotch lassie's<br/>
face, and an unpretending garb. No or-<br/>
ator ever moved a crowd more then she<br/>
did when last night she sang "Highland<br/>
Mary." A fashionably dressed woman<br/>
passing with her husband on the street,<br/>
had paused to listen to the singing. She<br/>
then came forward through the hundreds<br/>
who had collected, slipped a coin into the<br/>
singer's hand, and then whispered some-<br/>
thing in her ear. It was probably a re-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
quest that she should sing "Highland<br/>
Mary." At any rate, the minstrel broke<br/>
forth with that charming hymn of human<br/>
love just blooming into the love divine,<br/>
and poured her whole soul into it. Each<br/>
note seemed to float up winged into the<br/>
moonlight; every noise was hushed all<br/>
along the street, and the very surges of<br/>
the Frith seemed to pause. As she went<br/>
on, many a tear must have been born in<br/>
the silence, and many a heart been thrilled.<br/>
When it was over nearly every one came<br/>
forward with his or her tribute—even the<br/>
children with their half pence. Through-<br/>
out the country the old ballad tunes and<br/>
music of Burns are still sung with ac-<br/>
curacy and feeling by the working people.<br/>
The fishing people, particularly, sing<br/>
them all the day long. I have often had<br/>
occasion, roaming about Scotland, to<br/>
remember the best thing that George<br/>
Gilfillan ever said—that Robert Burns<br/>
had set the pulses of human heart to<br/>
music.—Lo. Co. News.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_12 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A Chinese Story.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Men cannot conceive of a state of<br/>
things so fair that it cannot be realized.<br/>
Can any man honestly consult his ex-<br/>
perience and say that it is so? Have we<br/>
any that facts to appeal to when we say<br/>
that our dreams are premature? Did<br/>
you ever hear of a man who had striven<br/>
all his life faithfully and singly toward<br/>
an object and in no measure obtained it?<br/>
If a man constantly aspires, is he not<br/>
elevated? Did ever a man try heroism,<br/>
magnanimity, truth, sincerity, and find<br/>
there was no advantage in them? that it<br/>
was a vain endeavor? To look at litera-<br/>
ture—how many fine thoughts has every<br/>
man had! how few fine thoughts are ex-<br/>
pressed!—Yet we never have a fantasy<br/>
so subtile and etherial, but that TALENT<br/>
MERELY, with mere resolution and faith-<br/>
ful persistency, father a thousand failures,<br/>
might fix and engrave it in distinct and<br/>
enduring words, and we should see that<br/>
our dreams are the solidest facts that we<br/>
know.—THOREAU.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_1_13 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A sermon in four words:—"Shrouds<br/>
have no pockets".
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—When an extravagant friend wishes<br/>
to borrow your money, consider which of<br/>
the two you would rather lose.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—The difficulty of the English language<br/>
which a foreigner must experience, is<br/>
well illustrated by the following ques-<br/>
tion:—"Did you ever see a person pare<br/>
an apple or a pear with a pair of scissors?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Every day in thy life is a leaf in thy<br/>
history—a leaf which shall once be turn-<br/>
ed back to again, that it may be seen<br/>
what was written there; and that what-<br/>
ever was written may be read out in the<br/>
hearing of all.—TRENCH.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—John Stuart Mills told an opponent<br/>
in the house of Commons that "the con-<br/>
servative party is from its constitution,<br/>
necessarily the stupidest party, which<br/>
insures its being always an extremely<br/>
powerful party."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—It is the duty of each member of<br/>
the Mt. Holyoke Female Seminary to<br/>
write an annual letter, stating whether<br/>
she is married or single, and other parti-<br/>
culars concerning her status and progress.<br/>
A young lady of the class of 1861 has<br/>
just written to the class secretary that she<br/>
is not married, but that she thinks she<br/>
can see a little cloud that ariseth out of<br/>
the sea of the future, like a man's hand.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Out of the bible have come all pure<br/>
moralities. From it have sprung all<br/>
sweet charities. It has been the motive<br/>
power of regeneration and reformation<br/>
to millions of men. It has comforted the<br/>
humble, consoled the mourning, sustain-<br/>
ed the suffering, and given trust and<br/>
triumph to the dying. The wise old man<br/>
has fallen asleep with it folded upon his<br/>
breast. The simple cottager has used it<br/>
for a dying pillow; and even the innocent<br/>
child has breathed his last happy sigh,<br/>
with his fingers between its promise<br/>
freighted leaves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A western editor, while taking a<br/>
snooze after dark, traveling in a railway<br/>
carriage, had his pocket picked. The<br/>
thief next day forwarded the wallet by<br/>
express to the editor's office, with the<br/>
following note:
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"You miserable skunk, here's yer poc-<br/>
ket book. I don't keep sich—For a man<br/>
to go round dressed as well as you was,<br/>
with a pocket with nothing in it but a lot<br/>
of new paper scraps, an ivory tuth comb,<br/>
two new paper stamps, and a pass for a<br/>
railroad direcktur, is a contempterble<br/>
imposition on the publick. As I hear yer<br/>
an editor, I return yer trash—I never<br/>
robs any but gentlemen."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—Question for Napoleon—How many<br/>
millions does it take to make a Maxi-<br/>
milian?
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—A gentleman walking with two ladies,<br/>
stepped on a hogshead hoop, that flew<br/>
up and struck him in the face. "Good<br/>
gracious!" said he. "Which of you<br/>
dropped that?"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
—What word is that in the English<br/>
language, the first two letters of which<br/>
signity a man—the three first a woman—<br/>
the four first a great man—and the whole<br/>
a great woman?—Heroine.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_2_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Bangkok Recorder.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
January 16th 1867.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Our Apology.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
[The following is a copy (or as nearly<br/>
so as a rough draft of the original and our<br/>
own memory enables us to give) of an<br/>
apology which we sent to M. Aubaret the<br/>
French Consul for the reports we had heard<br/>
and published under date of Dec. 20th<br/>
concerning his interview with His Maj-<br/>
esty the king of Siam on the 13th or the<br/>
14th ulto.]
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
MONSIEUR AUBARKT
FRENCH CONSUL
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
SIR
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
I pray that
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
you will allow me through J. M. Hood<br/>
Esq. U. S. Consul, to come in this way<br/>
before you for the purpose of offering<br/>
some explanation, and proposing some<br/>
amicable settlement of the affair in<br/>
which you feel that I have aggrieved<br/>
you. After further and careful inqui-<br/>
ry I am now inclined to think that<br/>
the reports which I made in the Bang-<br/>
kok Recorder of the 20th ulto. were<br/>
based on some mis-understanding of the<br/>
true sense of that part of your con-<br/>
versation with His Majesty the king<br/>
of Siam relating to H. E. the Prime<br/>
Minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siamese government affirms<br/>
that there was a great mistake made<br/>
in this matter, and there seems to be<br/>
collateral evidence that what it affirms<br/>
in regard to that point is true—-to wit<br/>
-—that you did not demand or even<br/>
request that H. E. should be remov-<br/>
ed from his place as Premier, but on-<br/>
ly that he should be removed from his<br/>
post as Chief Commissioner in refer-<br/>
ence to the Cambodian Treaty.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
For any expressions in the article<br/>
with which you feel aggrieved, and<br/>
which may not be true, and in regard<br/>
to which I have been mis-informed, I<br/>
am willing to make all reasonable apol-<br/>
ogies and corrections.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Allow me to declare unto you that<br/>
my only object in writing that article<br/>
was to perform faithfully what I regar-<br/>
ded my duty as a public recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/indent2 >}}Bangkok Jan. 2d 1867.<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
Yours respectfully
D. B. BRADLEY.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_2_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
New Year's Compliments.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As this is the last sheet of the Bang-<br/>
kok Recorder which we shall issue,<br/>
we beg now to return to our subscrib-<br/>
ers our sincere thanks for the support<br/>
they have given us during the last<br/>
year. And to the proprietors of the<br/>
numerous exchanges—semi-monthly,<br/>
weekly, and semi-weekly, from vari-<br/>
ous parts of this eastern world which<br/>
they have very generously sent us as<br/>
contributions for the support of our<br/>
infant enterprise in this great heathen<br/>
metropolis, would we herewith tender<br/>
our most hearty acknowledgments.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Our reasons for now leaving this de-<br/>
partment of service have already been<br/>
given in a previous issue. Though<br/>
other cares of a more obligatory char-<br/>
acter call us away from the infant<br/>
paper, the child we think will not die.<br/>
We look upon it as but sleeping<br/>
quietly in its cradle, waiting for other<br/>
nurses more skillful, we hope, than<br/>
ourselves, to come to wake it out of<br/>
sleep, and to rear it up to vigorous<br/>
manhood. It may be God would have<br/>
it nurtured under a different nation-<br/>
ality as it might enjoy more freedom<br/>
for rapid expansion under the English<br/>
flag than the American. If so, His<br/>
will be done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And now it remaineth only that we<br/>
wish each of our patrons and other<br/>
readers and friends a Happy New<br/>
Year of probation for an eternal series<br/>
of blissful years and cycles in the<br/>
kingdom of Heaven.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we were going to have no more<br/>
opportunity to publish the last chap-<br/>
ter of our glances from the Broadway<br/>
of Bangkok, we have thought it better<br/>
to finish up our original plan even at<br/>
the risk of being thought tedious.<br/>
We have wished in writing these<br/>
sketches not only to give our readers<br/>
abroad some accurate knowledge of<br/>
this most extraordinary city, but also<br/>
to set up some permanent way-marks<br/>
as memorials for our successors thirty<br/>
years hence, to show them what the<br/>
Broadway of Bangkok was in the end<br/>
of the year of our Lord 1866, and<br/>
what wonderful changes shall have<br/>
then passed over the city. We fancy<br/>
that all the floating houses will then<br/>
have gone into oblivion. That the<br/>
banks of this magnificent river flow-<br/>
ing on forever, will have been strong-<br/>
ly diked, with beautiful streets on<br/>
each, and blocks of splendid brick<br/>
buildings on the inside of them, all the<br/>
distance which we have measured in<br/>
our glances. Good streets are now<br/>
fast coming into use even in Bangkok,<br/>
and when their reign shall have been<br/>
fully inaugurated, there can remain<br/>
but little more utility for floating<br/>
houses. These most singular human<br/>
dwellings and mercantile shops doubt-<br/>
less came into use because the heath-<br/>
en little thought of ever having any<br/>
wheel-carriage roads. They scarcely<br/>
knew of other pleasure carriages than<br/>
boats. And it was indispensable that<br/>
their main mercantile shops and vari-<br/>
ety stores should be located on the<br/>
great thoroughfare of the city, the<br/>
most conveniently arranged to invite<br/>
customers. Hence the existence of<br/>
floating houses where goods all hours<br/>
of the day are exposed with the great-<br/>
est particularity, and perspicuity, so<br/>
that in gliding leisurely along, in<br/>
front of them one can usually see the<br/>
articles he wants without asking for<br/>
them. But the greatest change we<br/>
conceive that shall then have taken<br/>
place in Bangkok will be that the city<br/>
will be a Christian city. O how love-<br/>
ly would Bangkok become when ruled<br/>
thoroughly by the principles of the<br/>
gospel! We hope soon to see this<br/>
change from the battlements of heav-<br/>
en, when the Lord Jesus shall have<br/>
utterly abolished idolatry have as he<br/>
has done in the Sandwich Islands.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_2_4 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
A glide up the Broadway
of Bangkok.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER III.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We propose now to report another<br/>
chapter of our glide up the magnific-<br/>
ent Menam within the great metro-<br/>
polis. We will resume our sail where<br/>
we stopped our last report, to wit op-<br/>
posite the store of Messrs Malherbe<br/>
Jullian & Co. on the eastern side of the<br/>
river.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The broadway at this point is not<br/>
far from a third of a mile wide, ex-<br/>
tending nearly north and south, and<br/>
is so deep as to admit of the largest<br/>
merchant ships lying quite close in<br/>
shore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In passing up northerly from this<br/>
starting place, you will see on your<br/>
right hand a large one story dwelling<br/>
enclosed with bamboo occupied by<br/>
Capt. J. Hodgeton proprietor of the<br/>
European Steam-tug boat, plying be-<br/>
tween the city and the Bar.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next above this comes the Billiard<br/>
room of C. Falck lately fitted up by<br/>
converting a wooden go-down into a<br/>
tasty and lively looking hall, its front<br/>
being close to the river, with quite<br/>
an inviting landing. Of the opera-<br/>
tions of the establishment we know<br/>
next to nothing, and cannot hence<br/>
safely indulge in any comments, only<br/>
so far as to say that we have no sym-<br/>
pathy with billiard rooms as we be-<br/>
lieve them to be usually conducted for<br/>
gambling purposes.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing a bamboo go-down in close<br/>
contact with the billiard room, a<br/>
building having a fearfully combusti-<br/>
ble look in this dry time, you come<br/>
in front of the dwelling of the Har-<br/>
bor Master, an isolated two story<br/>
brick edifice, standing between two<br/>
long and narrow buildings of the<br/>
same hight which face each other<br/>
across the front yard of the former.<br/>
The one on the lower side is partly<br/>
occupied as office rooms for the Har-<br/>
bor Master, and the one on the upper<br/>
side, is now occupied in part for the<br/>
Custom House.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next object of particular in-<br/>
terest on this side is the mouth of the<br/>
canal Padoong kroong krasem, excav-<br/>
ated early in the present reign. It has<br/>
become a place of much business, and<br/>
furnishes very many eligible situations<br/>
in its extent of two or three miles, for<br/>
hand rice-mills, fruit-orchards, gar-<br/>
dens, family residences and temples.<br/>
It is simply an artificial cut across<br/>
the thick neck of a large bend of the<br/>
river, and is truly a great internal<br/>
improvement upon the last reign.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
On passing the mouth of the canal<br/>
you next come to the establishment<br/>
of Messrs A. Markwald & Co. where<br/>
both the * Austrian and Prussian con-<br/>
suls display their colors on becoming<br/>
flagstaffs, the former on the lower side,<br/>
the latter on the upper. The building<br/>
is of wood, two stories, large and roomy<br/>
and covered with attap palm leaves.<br/>
Though of the usual sombre-weather,
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
* The Netherlands and Hanseatic Con-<br/>
sulatos which we inadvertently omitted to<br/>
mention in a previous chapter are both<br/>
represented at the Houses of Pickenpack<br/>
Thies & Co.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
beaten aspect of nearly all the native<br/>
buildings, a little paint in front with<br/>
a tasteful arrangement of trees and<br/>
shrubbery about it, gives it quite a<br/>
European air.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next above this is the dwelling of<br/>
R. S. Scott & Co. which is apparently<br/>
the twin sister of tho house just be-<br/>
fore named. It is here that Denmark<br/>
is represented by her consul, and dis-<br/>
plays her colors. It was peculiarly<br/>
interesting to notice day by day for<br/>
these last two years the flaunting en-<br/>
signs of three kingdoms whose politi-<br/>
cal collisions have made Europe to<br/>
quake much of that time, standing<br/>
so closely and quietly together, as<br/>
though all at home were peace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Glancing a few rods further up<br/>
on the same side, you will notice an-<br/>
other Roman Catholic church about<br/>
the same size, and much in the style<br/>
of the one mentioned previously nearly<br/>
half a mile below. There is in its<br/>
vicinity a large Portuguese settlement.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Next above this are the Siam Iron<br/>
Furnaces, at which all the iron kettles<br/>
and other iron vessels of Siamese man-<br/>
ufacture are made. The buildings<br/>
are now new and chiefly of solid brick<br/>
work, it being a great improvement<br/>
on what it was before the two great<br/>
fires within three years which swept<br/>
off a host of old bamboo and attap<br/>
sheds and huts.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing the Iron works a little, you<br/>
come to quite a huddle of native<br/>
square-rigged vessels, junks, lighters,<br/>
etc. packed close in shore, so as quite<br/>
to confound the river view of the<br/>
buildings on land. Occasionally you<br/>
can get a peek at some of them, but<br/>
they are in a state of great heathenish<br/>
confusion with scarcely a pleasant<br/>
sight for a quarter of a mile or more.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is time that we have another<br/>
glance on the western side of the<br/>
river. As remarked in our previous<br/>
report the line of floating houses is<br/>
almost unbroken on this side as far as<br/>
this northern and southern reach of<br/>
the river will allow you to look.<br/>
You will notice here and there at<br/>
rather long intervals, long brick go-<br/>
downs in the rear always extend-<br/>
ing inland with one end to the<br/>
river. Other parts are thickly stud-<br/>
ded with small two story dwellings,<br/>
mostly of wood, thatched with attap<br/>
leaves, and consequently all of the<br/>
same old hay-stack complexion. You<br/>
will often see these houses standing<br/>
behind one another as it were, from<br/>
six to ten in number, all occupying<br/>
a space extending along the bank<br/>
from ten to twelve rods in width.<br/>
And yet among all these you will<br/>
scarcely find either in front or in<br/>
the rear a street that you could ride<br/>
a horse upon. They are nearly all<br/>
mere foot paths with the least possible<br/>
degree of order. And this state of<br/>
things extends for miles up and down<br/>
on that side of the river. A little<br/>
behind these houses you will see or-<br/>
chard trees of rich foliage lifting up<br/>
their graceful tops affording an agree-<br/>
able relief to the dullness and confus-<br/>
ion of heathen houses.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sailing up a little further, and<br/>
looking to the eastern side again you<br/>
will notice a large Wat occupying a<br/>
broad frontage on the river, but with<br/>
little apparent order or beauty, with<br/>
native vessels of all kinds huddled in<br/>
front. It is called Wat Sampeng.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing this but a little you come<br/>
to the beginning of the Eastern line<br/>
of floating houses. And just here the<br/>
river takes a turn and extends N. W.<br/>
& S. E. You are now three quarters<br/>
of a mile from the British Consulate<br/>
and a mile and a half below the palace<br/>
of the first king. You now see a per-<br/>
fect line of floating houses on both<br/>
sides of the river until your view is<br/>
obstructed a mile above by a turn of<br/>
the river to the north. You cannot<br/>
but observe that the population of the<br/>
eastern side of the river is in this<br/>
part of the city much more dense,<br/>
and deep inland than the eastern.<br/>
With the exception of here and there<br/>
a brick house with tiled roof, the<br/>
houses are nearly all of wood and<br/>
thatched with attap, and hence have a<br/>
fearful look of combustibility in a dry<br/>
time of two months like the present.<br/>
The great Bazar street is about fifty<br/>
rods in the rear on this side and passes<br/>
nearly parallel with the river. All<br/>
the space between it and the river is<br/>
intensely packed with small bamboo<br/>
and teak-wood attap-thatched houses.<br/>
The few brick houses of the same<br/>
hight make but little show, as they<br/>
are nearly all crowded by old bamboo<br/>
huts, hovels, and sheds. Besides here<br/>
and there a narrow canal, full of small<br/>
boats of merchandize, there is scarce-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
ly any access to the Bazar but by the<br/>
most cramped and ill repaired foot<br/>
paths.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gliding up another half mile you<br/>
come opposite to Wat Samplume on<br/>
the eastern side. The temple is situ-<br/>
ated forty rods from the bank of the<br/>
river, having a narrow foot bridge<br/>
over a mud-flat of about sixty yards<br/>
The chief Pagoda of the temple is<br/>
one of the most imposing in the city.<br/>
It was in one of its niches that the<br/>
late pretended Buddhist miracle was<br/>
displayed for many weeks in succes-<br/>
sion. This mud flat extends for a<br/>
mile or more up and down on that<br/>
side, and is closely occupied with<br/>
wooden houses standing as it were on<br/>
stilts. Their posts, instead of being<br/>
framed into sills and these resting on<br/>
some suitable under-pinning, are sunk<br/>
into the mud from three to five feet,<br/>
and the sleepers of the only floor<br/>
framed into them is as to be above<br/>
the highest tides in December. Hence<br/>
you may see, much of the time, an<br/>
open space below the floor of six or<br/>
eight feet. Such are the houses that<br/>
originated and have propagated even<br/>
till now the idea abroad, that the<br/>
whole of Bangkok is standing on stilts<br/>
over vast mud-flats, than which there<br/>
was scarcely never a greater mistake.<br/>
The cause of this mud-flat about<br/>
which we are speaking is simply that<br/>
the land on that side has, for scores<br/>
of years, been making into the river,<br/>
while that on the opposite side has<br/>
been wearing away. Aside from<br/>
such flats, now on the eastern side, an<br/>
now a mile below on the western, the<br/>
building sites of Bangkok are on as<br/>
good terra firma as in any city in<br/>
the world.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_2_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Shanland Sketches.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
HISTORY GEOGRAPHY, RELIGION ETC.
CHAPTER V.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Perplexities excite the mind to think<br/>
and devise. It was so with me the<br/>
other morning. I went out for an<br/>
early walk on business. My way was<br/>
on the path by the new canal. I walk-<br/>
ed up the side nearest my home and<br/>
came to the crossing that must take<br/>
me to the other side. A single plank<br/>
over the great canal, and high up from<br/>
the water and this was slippery. Oh<br/>
no! no, said I to myself, I do not wish<br/>
a plunge bath from so great a height<br/>
this cold morning. I must try some<br/>
better way. So I turned backward,<br/>
crossed over the fine bridge, went up<br/>
the palace road a little, turned down<br/>
a path back to the canal and was all<br/>
right without any head dizziness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
And then I began to think and plan<br/>
somthing in this train. Bangkok is a<br/>
growing city. It is being rapidly built<br/>
up with substantial brick dwellings,<br/>
especially on the king's road and vicin-<br/>
ity. In this section certainly the city<br/>
should be laid out into buildingsquares,<br/>
with fine broad streets between the<br/>
river and the market street, and be-<br/>
tween the market street and the new<br/>
road. If the streets could be blocked<br/>
out now, it would save a deal of trouble<br/>
in after time, in pulling down the old<br/>
to make improvements.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A thing may just as well be hand-<br/>
somely and conveniently arranged as<br/>
otherwise, if time is taken by the fore-<br/>
lock. Where do we in Bangkok<br/>
propose to have market street a hun-<br/>
dred years hence? Where do we<br/>
propose to have the beautiful river re-<br/>
sidences? What parts are to be given<br/>
up for traffic in wholesale? Where are to<br/>
be the big warehouses and the din of<br/>
trade? And where the forts that are to<br/>
give defence? Where the great parade<br/>
ground for the military department?<br/>
Where the Academy halls? Where the<br/>
state buildings in which rulers and<br/>
judges are to make laws and dispense<br/>
justice? Where those necessary build-<br/>
ings that require most thought of all,<br/>
that are to provide for the sick, the<br/>
sentenced and the unfortunate? Asy-<br/>
lums are among the great necessities<br/>
of the land.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Could these things be planned for,<br/>
and roads and streets and groves and<br/>
gardens be made with reference to them,<br/>
the city would grow up strong and<br/>
beautiful, and become e'er long a<br/>
beautiful thrifty place for trade, and a<br/>
growing thrifty country in every de-<br/>
partment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The residence of the Master of police<br/>
and that of the Harbor Master seem<br/>
the natural boundaries between the old<br/>
and the new. The vicinity around<br/>
and above and below these points are<br/>
destined to great improvements in<br/>
coming time. Beginning from the<br/>
new iron bridge in the vicinity of the<br/>
head station of the master of police,<br/>
there is every facility to make a fine<br/>
location. Above this point, first is the<br/>
river affording beautiful frontage to<br/>
fine residences. Cross streets from<br/>
this should meet market street, and<br/>
then across from market street to<br/>
Palace road, and from Palace road to<br/>
the canal, till this section should be<br/>
filled with substantial brick blocks for<br/>
stores and residences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The section contiguous to the Mas-<br/>
ter of police, down the river, seem de-<br/>
stined to be Consular squares, where<br/>
all foreign residents shall find protect-<br/>
ion and justice. It ought therefore to<br/>
be distinguished for fine buildings and<br/>
most commanding residences. Other<br/>
business here, must give place to law<br/>
and order and quiet reign, while the<br/>
great shall think and plan and devise.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Below the Consulates, business on<br/>
a large scale will take the lead, and<br/>
whoever passes by on the river will<br/>
expect to hear the din of business and<br/>
the click of machinery. Down, down<br/>
let the march of progress make its way<br/>
till the great bend ache with the pro-<br/>
duce it bears on its way to the great<br/>
ocean, to go forth to supply others<br/>
and enrich ourselves.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Already there are a great many<br/>
foreign business men clustered below<br/>
the Consulates. If all were church<br/>
going men, the little Protestant church<br/>
would scarcely hold the half of them;<br/>
and anon we should see broad found-<br/>
ations laid for a towering church, and<br/>
the present little unobtrusive structure<br/>
become a quiet gathering place for<br/>
evening lectures and meetings for con-<br/>
ference.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
I am astonished that the Chandler<br/>
Mansion is not taken up before this,<br/>
as a residence of some great business<br/>
man, that purposes to command the<br/>
point between that and the new<br/>
road; and make a great speculation by<br/>
buying up and laying out these grounds<br/>
to be afterwards sold for advantageous<br/>
business purposes and residences.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The opposite side of the river is<br/>
better adapted for the native popula-<br/>
tion, and therefore affords missionary<br/>
stations to those who propose to give<br/>
themselves to the moral and religious<br/>
advancement of the permanent resi-<br/>
dents, the subjects of the kingdom.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
There is at present a path all along<br/>
the river. It ought to be a good road,<br/>
and easy communication secured both<br/>
by water and land all the way up to<br/>
the great business land, and from thence<br/>
on and on up to Bangkok's No1.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The vicinity of the Wichayen Fort,<br/>
the present location of the Mission of<br/>
the American Missionary Association,<br/>
brings the missionary in communica-<br/>
tion with all western inland Siam. It<br/>
is at the mouth of the great western<br/>
canal between the Chow Phya and<br/>
Tachcon, bringing productions from the<br/>
west to Bangkok. Boats anchor here<br/>
to take their bearings and decide to<br/>
what part of the city to take their pro-<br/>
duce, and may receive the saving mes-<br/>
sage. The missionary here, too, comes<br/>
in direct communication with the rulers<br/>
and nobility of the country, and there-<br/>
fore needs great power and forethought<br/>
to turn every event to the best advan-<br/>
tage.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Presbyterian Mission far down<br/>
the river opposite the Chandler Man-<br/>
sion, have a fine location for schools<br/>
and book making for supplying the<br/>
different out-stations they are now plan-<br/>
ting with great hope.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Baptist Mission still have their<br/>
location where they first commenced<br/>
the pioneer station in the rear of the<br/>
Portuguese Consulate, now on the<br/>
right of H. B. M's Consulate. They<br/>
have a Chinese outpost up Market<br/>
street in the heart of the Chinese po-<br/>
pulation, and a commodious station<br/>
on the king's road in the rear of the<br/>
English Consulate, which is thronged<br/>
with visitors of many nations every<br/>
day of the week.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are hopeful for Bangkok at the<br/>
present time. We only need faith and<br/>
good works, and progress must be<br/>
the characteristic in every department.<br/>
Shoulder to shoulder, let those who<br/>
wish good to this people go forward,<br/>
and devising liberal things, each strive<br/>
to do his best and emulate each other<br/>
to love and good works.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Reform supposes changes. But if<br/>
God is at the helm and directs the<br/>
whirlwind and guides the storm, when<br/>
the storm is over we shall see a good<br/>
secured. A man may be driven from<br/>
a fine home, but if he thus gets a more<br/>
influential position where he can do<br/>
more for God and his fellow men, let<br/>
him laugh at the storm and welcome<br/>
change. What can be done to secure<br/>
the greatest good, should be the uni-<br/>
versal inquiry, and then press on to<br/>
its accomplishment, looking to God<br/>
for strength to do, and reward for labor.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_3_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Glide up the Broadway of
Bangkok.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
CHAPTER IV.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing up a few rods further, you<br/>
will find yourself opposite the mouth<br/>
of the old canal which makes a much<br/>
shorter cut across the neck of the<br/>
bend of the river than the one we<br/>
above noticed. The space included<br/>
within this and the river is the site of<br/>
the city-proper which is enclosed with<br/>
a brick wall about 12 feet thick and<br/>
not far from the same in length, you<br/>
will observe that this canal is packed<br/>
with trading boats on both sides, and<br/>
nearly every foot of ground occupied<br/>
with bamboo and teak-wood houses<br/>
as far inland as you can see.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Looking over to the opposite side<br/>
of the river, you will have much the<br/>
same scenery as we have already<br/>
described on that bank below, but<br/>
with a greater proportion of substan-<br/>
tial brick houses. The line of float-<br/>
ing houses is but little broken until<br/>
you reach the upper fort on that side<br/>
a mile and a half from the Prussian<br/>
Consulate. A little below a point op-<br/>
posite the canal which forms the<br/>
southern and eastern boundary of the<br/>
city proper is Mussulman Square. It<br/>
is a series of some 18 or 20 Mus-<br/>
sulman shops in two long blocks of<br/>
two story brick buildings with one<br/>
end of each near the river, the other<br/>
inland, facing each other over a small<br/>
square plot of commons, which is all<br/>
ways crowded with lumber in the<br/>
greatest confusion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing thence on that side up-<br/>
ward some 20 rods you come to a<br/>
small and very neat Mahomedan<br/>
mosque. And but a few yards above<br/>
that, is the mouth of a canal leading<br/>
to the mansion of H. E. the late<br/>
Somdetch Ongnoi, and to a temple<br/>
built by him a little more inland with<br/>
a lofty Pagoda.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Ten or fifteen rods above this is<br/>
the palace H. E. the late Somdetch<br/>
Ongyai, and now occupied by several<br/>
members of his numerous family. A<br/>
Raymond D. Honey & Co. occupy a<br/>
part of it for their variety store of<br/>
European goods, and a very eligible<br/>
situation it appears to be for their<br/>
business.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing upward six or eight rods<br/>
further, you come to the residence of<br/>
H. E. Chow Phya P'raklang minister<br/>
for Foreign affairs. There is nothing<br/>
in the least inviting in his front, and<br/>
all is rather plain within. H. E. seems<br/>
decidedly to prefer expending his<br/>
money on Buddhist temples, especial-<br/>
ly on the Pra-p'atom monument to<br/>
much outlay on his own palace or<br/>
personal equipage. He has no children<br/>
to claim his care and providence, and<br/>
consequently feels quite free to make<br/>
such a pious disposition of his<br/>
wealth.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The next place of note above the<br/>
Praklang's; is the landing for the<br/>
temple of the late Somdetch Ong-yai.<br/>
The temple is 30 or 40 rods from the river.<br/>
One of the most lofty pagoda spires<br/>
in the city is now being finished on<br/>
that temple ground. The wharf and<br/>
go-down of the Str. Chow Phya is<br/>
next above this landing, and then you<br/>
come to the old brick buildings fitted<br/>
up for the accomodation of the am-<br/>
bassadors from Europe in 1855. It<br/>
was, prior to that, denominated the<br/>
British Factory, as it was then the on-<br/>
ly place in the city where English<br/>
merchants did any business. A<br/>
few steps above this place is a small<br/>
canal which conducts to H. E. Chow<br/>
Phya Kalahome's Palace, not far from<br/>
a quarter of a mile inland. You can<br/>
scarcely discern any part of it as you<br/>
glide along in an ordinary pleasure<br/>
boat
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We come now on the western side<br/>
of the river to a large Portuguese<br/>
settlement, commonly denominated<br/>
Santa Cruz. Here you will observe<br/>
one of the largest Roman C. Churches<br/>
in Bangkok built of solid brick work,<br/>
and as usual with all the church edi-<br/>
fices of this persuasion in Bangkok,<br/>
without any spire. There are but two<br/>
or three brick dwellings in all the<br/>
settlement. One of these is at pre-<br/>
sent occupied by the firm of Maherbe<br/>
Julian & Co. for both a family dwel-<br/>
ling and a variety store. The Por-<br/>
tuguese houses generally can scarcely<br/>
be distinguished from the dwellings<br/>
of the poorer classes of the heathen.<br/>
The village was entirely burnt up<br/>
two or three years since, and there<br/>
does not appear to have been any im-<br/>
provement made in the style of the<br/>
houses by the rebuilding.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
But it is time to turn and note a<br/>
few points on the eastern side of the<br/>
river. Exactly opposite the wharf of<br/>
the Chow Phya is the beautiful man-<br/>
sion of Pra Parsee Sombat (Poh-<br/>
yim) one of the chief owners of the<br/>
Str. Chow Phya, which is getting<br/>
herself a great name as a prompt and<br/>
fleet mail-boat between this and Sing-<br/>
apore. A little below, this is the<br/>
landing of Wat Leapa [?] temple situated<br/>
some distance from the river and<br/>
nearly hidden from view from the<br/>
river. Her tall Pagoda, however, is<br/>
always commanding. You will here<br/>
and there in that vicinity see behind<br/>
the dense bamboo and teak houses a<br/>
few of the embrasures of the city<br/>
wall. Substantial brick houses are per-<br/>
haps more frequent in this vicinity<br/>
for an extent of a half mile or more<br/>
than we found them on either side<br/>
below. But they are generally quite<br/>
disfigured by a crowd of ugly<br/>
bamboo houses, huts, sheds, etc. hid-<br/>
ing all about them.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Proceeding from Poh-yim's upward<br/>
you presently come to the floating<br/>
market consisting of a long tier of small<br/>
boats with round bamboo covers. They<br/>
are fastened to the line of floating houses.<br/>
In these are various native commodities<br/>
offered for sale—-as dried fish, onions,<br/>
potatoes, garlic, red-pepper squashes,<br/>
melons, bananas, oranges, pomeloes,<br/>
arrow-root, tamarinds, beans, peas,<br/>
birdsnests, betelnut, tobacco, etc. Early<br/>
every morning a multitude of small<br/>
sampans come from all quarters with<br/>
other varieties of eatables and offer<br/>
them for sale in that vicinity. Immedi-<br/>
ately behind this market are several<br/>
palaces of princes and nobles; but<br/>
there is nothing at all imposing in any<br/>
of them excepting the new brick man-<br/>
sion of Phya Buroot, which is quite<br/>
European in style.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At a point very nearly opposite to<br/>
this, on the western side, is the mouth<br/>
of the large canal, Bangkok-yai. Im-<br/>
mediately below this is temple Kan-<br/>
laya which is quite a neat and tasty<br/>
establishment. On the upper side of<br/>
the canal's mouth is the old fort built<br/>
by Weecha-yen about A. D. 1850. And<br/>
just behind it, but quite hidden by fruit<br/>
trees, is the mission of the American<br/>
Missionary Association, and the office<br/>
of the Bangkok Recorder. This is a<br/>
little more than two miles above the<br/>
British Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passing on above the fort 8 or 10<br/>
rods you come opposite the palace of<br/>
H. R. H. Krom Hluang Wongsa on<br/>
the west—-the site of king Phya Tak-<br/>
sin's palace. And next above this is<br/>
Wat Chaang one of the most richly<br/>
endowed temples in Bangkok. Its chief<br/>
pagoda is about 200 feet high. The<br/>
frontage of the temple on the river is<br/>
broad, and the court grounds very fine.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Directly opposite to this, on the eas-<br/>
tern side is Wat Poh, perhaps richer<br/>
than the one just named, but with a<br/>
frontage on the river much less impos-<br/>
ing. In one of the largest buildings<br/>
of this temple is the famous recum-<br/>
bent idol 150 feet long and otherwise<br/>
well proportioned. Just above this<br/>
temple you come to the international<br/>
court house, a very respectable brick,<br/>
building and quite European in its style.<br/>
There are many other brick buildings<br/>
going up a little above it, on a place<br/>
which has been swept by fire twice or<br/>
tree times within the space of five<br/>
year. The lines of floating houses on<br/>
both sides of the river are quite broken<br/>
in this vicinity, by the frontage of<br/>
temples and princes' palaces, and this<br/>
state of things continues for nearly two<br/>
miles above Wat Chaang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Gliding upward a quarter of a mile<br/>
from this you will find yourself opposite<br/>
the palace of the first king of Siam.<br/>
We have no time nor space to attempt<br/>
a discription of the place, only to say<br/>
that you have a confused sight of many<br/>
imposing buildings connected with it,<br/>
since large boat sheds and other bam-<br/>
boo and brick buildings without little<br/>
symmetry or order, stand in front of<br/>
them. But it should be stated that<br/>
this side of the royal palace, though on<br/>
the great Broadway of Bangkok is<br/>
not considered the real front. The<br/>
true front is inland a quarter of a mile<br/>
on the opposite side, where there is a<br/>
fine street on terra firma and a very<br/>
agreeable and even grand view of the<br/>
royal palace.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The palace of the late second king<br/>
is a half a mile above this on the<br/>
same side of the river, and this is dis-<br/>
tant from Paknam 23¾ miles and from<br/>
the anchorage over the Bar 34 miles.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BIRTH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
At her residence in this city Mrs.<br/>
Wilson wife of Rev. Jonathan Wilson<br/>
of the Presbyterian mission gave birth<br/>
to a son on the evening of the 31st, ul-<br/>
to.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
LOCAL.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We beg hereby to express our<br/>
thanks to His Majesty the king of Si-<br/>
am for a copy of his New-Year's cir-<br/>
cular which he very graciously super-<br/>
scribed with his own hand to our ad-<br/>
dress, and we do in turn most hear-<br/>
tily wish His Majesty and all his nu-<br/>
merous family a happy New-Year and<br/>
many more besides.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
PARISIAN EXHIBITION.—-We learn<br/>
that Phya Sooriwong Wiayawat(Chow<br/>
Koon Changwang) only son of H. E.<br/>
the Prime Minister, has been appoin-<br/>
ted by His Majesty the king as his<br/>
representative to the Parisian Exibi-<br/>
tion, and that he and his first wife<br/>
will leave on the Friday the 18th inst,<br/>
per Str. Chow Phya for Singapore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn that Capt. A. H. Bagge<br/>
of the royal Engineers, left this about<br/>
a fortnight since for Petehaburee, be-<br/>
ing accompanied by two or more Si-<br/>
amese officials bound for the remain-<br/>
ing Survey of the Boundery line be-<br/>
tween Siam and Burmah. We hear<br/>
from Petohaburee that a caravan of<br/>
elephants were in readiness there for<br/>
the Captain soon after his arrival,<br/>
but that by some mishap, when he<br/>
was ready to mount them, they had all<br/>
disappeared. Our informant says that<br/>
the Captain was obliged to wait in a<br/>
very unhappy state of suspense full<br/>
seven days for the return of the ele-<br/>
phants and the reorganization of the<br/>
caravan—-and that he finally left on<br/>
the 9th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By the Siam bark St. Paul Capt.<br/>
Lyser, which arrived here on the 6th<br/>
inst. we learn that there was no less<br/>
than twenty five vessels in Singapore<br/>
in distress. The British bark Amy<br/>
Warwick, dismasted had put into<br/>
Singapore. She left this on the 8th<br/>
Dec. last bound for Bombay.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The British Schooner Fairy, owned<br/>
by Scott & Co. arrived in Hongkong<br/>
on the 10th December.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Siam Steamer Chow Phya<br/>
left Singapore at 10.30 p.m. 5th inst.<br/>
She experienced strong N. E. winds<br/>
with a heavy sea till she reached the<br/>
Gulf. In the Gulf fine weather with<br/>
light northerly winds and smooth wa-<br/>
ter. Arrived at the bar at 10 p.m. on<br/>
the 10th inst., crossed the bar at 7<br/>
A.M. and arrived in Bangkok at 10<br/>
A.M. 11th inst.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Passengers per Chow Phya, H. R.<br/>
H. the Duke Pentbierre, Count de<br/>
Beauvour, Mons. Fanviel, Madam<br/>
Grandpre, and 1 European servant,<br/>
Mrs. Dr. Campbell, 2 children and<br/>
servant, Mr. J. Maclean, Mons Lam-<br/>
ache and 30 deck passengers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_3_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
U. S. S. F. SHENANDOAH.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We are happy to be able to inform<br/>
our readers that the U. S. S. Frigate<br/>
Shenandoah Captain Goldsborough<br/>
arrived at the anchorage, having been<br/>
five days on her passage from Singa-<br/>
pore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Shenandoah, of the U. S. Navy<br/>
Captain J. R. Goldsborough, was built<br/>
at Philadelphia, and launched in 1862.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
She cost in her construction up-<br/>
wards of one million and a half dollars.<br/>
She has a crew of 250 men and offi-<br/>
cers, and carries ten guns, two of which<br/>
are 11-inch Dahlgrens, the others be-<br/>
ing of somewhat less calibre. Her<br/>
"ram" is composed of 35 feet of solid<br/>
wood and iron, and she is plated for<br/>
200 feet over with 5-inch iron. Her<br/>
sailing capabilities under steam at sea<br/>
are thirteen and a half knots an hour<br/>
and the consumption of coal during 48<br/>
hours does not exceed 26 tons. She<br/>
left Philadelphia in November of last<br/>
year and is now on a cruise round the<br/>
world. She has already visited the<br/>
Cape, Madagascar, Ceylon, and the<br/>
coast towns on this side, and she<br/>
leaves about the middle of December<br/>
for the Straits, China and Japan. The<br/>
Shenandoah, it will be remembered,<br/>
was at the blockade of Charleston, and<br/>
bombardment of Fort Fisher, Wil-<br/>
mington, where there was some very<br/>
hard fighting. The names of her of-<br/>
ficers are as follows:-—J. R. Golds-<br/>
borough, Captain; William H. Belk-<br/>
nap, Commander; J. W. Nicholls,<br/>
Lieutenant Commander; R. S. Cot-<br/>
ton, ditto; R. S. Chew, ditto;W. M.<br/>
Maclay, Master; E. A. Kellogg, ditto;<br/>
R. H. Bartleman, Chief Engineer;<br/>
C. M. Guild Paymaster; R. H.<br/>
Roades, Surgeon W. H. Lyon, Past<br/>
Assistant-Surgeon; R. L. Meade, Ma-<br/>
rine Officer; Edward Farmer, First<br/>
Assistant-Engineer, besides eight other<br/>
Assistants Engineers.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SANITARIUM-—We have been reques-<br/>
ted to inform the public that single<br/>
persons or families residing at the San-<br/>
itarium at Anghin, are not expected<br/>
to pay more than one Tical per day<br/>
for the use of all the privileges of the<br/>
establishment, and this trifling charge<br/>
is to pay for a watchman at night and<br/>
one servant by day to draw water for<br/>
the place and keep it clean. Surely<br/>
this is very generous in His Majesty<br/>
and his Prime Minister.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_3_7 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/text >}}
STEAMER SIAM—-We are credibly<br/>
informed that there is soon to be an-<br/>
other Steamer Siam to take the place<br/>
of the one that was lost between Bur-<br/>
mah and Calcutta last year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A circular of the Borneo Company<br/>
Limited announces that the Steamer<br/>
Japan which was to have been here<br/>
about the 15th inst. will not come till<br/>
the fore part of next month.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE LIBEL CASE-—We regard it our<br/>
duty to inform the public that the<br/>
editor and proprietor of the Bangkok<br/>
Recorder has been sued by M. Auba-<br/>
ret the French Consul on the plea of<br/>
damages for libel, that both plaintiff and<br/>
defendant appeared at court before J.<br/>
M. Hood Esq., U. S. Consul on the<br/>
3rd inst. and that the trial of the<br/>
case was then postponed to the 21st<br/>
inst. at 10 o'clock A. M.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Plaintiff grounds his charge on that<br/>
part of our report in the issue of the<br/>
20th ulto, where we say the French<br/>
Consul spake disparagingly of H. E.<br/>
the Prime Minister and was said to<br/>
have proposed to nominate another<br/>
man as his successor
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE NEW CANAL—-We are glad to<br/>
learn from good authority that the<br/>
new canal from this city straight to<br/>
T'acheen river has been cut through<br/>
and is now navigable. It is reported<br/>
that H. E. the Prime Minister passed<br/>
through it a few days since in four<br/>
hours in one of his small boats pro-<br/>
pelled by men. Hence we judge that<br/>
it will be easy enough to leave Bang-<br/>
kok in any of our ordinary family<br/>
boats early in the morning, spend the<br/>
heat of the day at the Steam Sugar<br/>
mill on T'acheen river, and return<br/>
home in the evening. It looks quite<br/>
inviting for a trip.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We can but fervently hope that the<br/>
Siamese government will fully carry<br/>
out the original plan and construct<br/>
a good carriage road on one of its<br/>
banks.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A CORRECTION.-—We learn from the<br/>
best authority, that our reporter concern-<br/>
ing the refusal of the heavy bonds said to<br/>
have been offered by Mr. R. S. Scott for<br/>
his appearance at court in Singapore, was<br/>
mistaken, and that no bonds were ever<br/>
offered. It was only in view of such<br/>
bonds having been offered and refused<br/>
that we made the criticism we did in our<br/>
issue of the 20th ult. We are very glad<br/>
to be enabled to think that our fears in<br/>
regard to the apparent severity of his<br/>
treatment were not well founded.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The return of Mrs. Doct. James<br/>
Campbell and her two children in good<br/>
health on the 12th inst. per Chow Phya<br/>
has gladdened the hearts of all the Eu-<br/>
ropean and American Community in<br/>
Bangkok.<br/>
——-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Daniel McGilvary and family<br/>
commenced their Journey for Cheangmai<br/>
on the evening of the 3d inst. all in per-<br/>
fect health, and with buoyant hopes.<br/>
Rev. C. George and wife accompanied<br/>
them, intending to go as far as Rahaang,<br/>
and see Mr. Mc G. and family safely<br/>
mounted on elephants for their overland<br/>
trip of ten days to Cheangmai, when the<br/>
former will turn homeward. It is cal-<br/>
culated that the company will be full 30<br/>
days making the journey to Rahaang.<br/>
The bulk of their goods were sent on<br/>
some weeks before them so as to reach<br/>
that city ere the water shall become too<br/>
shallow. From thence they will be sent<br/>
in smaller boats designed for going<br/>
thence up the rapid a circuitous way to<br/>
Cheangmai.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We have received letters from Mr. &<br/>
Mrs. Mc Gilvary writing on the evening<br/>
of the 9th inst. at Maung In. It ap-<br/>
pears that the company had thus far<br/>
a delightful time without the first thought<br/>
of being WEARY PILGRIMS. Their stores,<br/>
though not of great variety were fully<br/>
adequate for their circumstances, and<br/>
their gun was occasionally bringing them<br/>
some agreeable change of diet. Hav-<br/>
ing ample boat room (being three large<br/>
family boats) not even the children were<br/>
feeling uncomfortably cramped.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WEATHER—We have had nearly<br/>
three months of the most delightful<br/>
weather which the tropics or any oth-<br/>
er zone ever furnishes. This season<br/>
has been very remarkably cool and<br/>
invigorating with scarcely any intermis-<br/>
sion, and with but few drops of rain.<br/>
Our winter seasons usually have been<br/>
distinguished by three or four bracing<br/>
days at a time, and then followed by<br/>
something analogous to a thaw. Just<br/>
now, however, we feel it quite warm,<br/>
from 10. a. m, to 3 p. m. preparing,<br/>
we think, for the usual showers in<br/>
mid January.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Chow Phya is advertised to<br/>
sail at 8 o'clock Friday morning.<br/>
Passengers for Singapore—Phya Soo-<br/>
riwong Weiyawat and suite. Mr. & Mrs.<br/>
Malherbe, Mr. Odman. The Duke De<br/>
Penthiere, The Count De Beauvour<br/>
Monsieur Fanvel, Madam De Grandpro,<br/>
European servant and Mr. Hewes son.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We clip the following from the Ill.<br/>
London News for Nov. 17th—-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir John Bowring, as Minister Ple-<br/>
nipotentiary from the Hawiian Sove-<br/>
rign, has negotiated treaties of amity<br/>
and commerce with several of the<br/>
continental Governments, has been<br/>
nominated by the king of Siam his<br/>
Envoy Extraordinary and minister<br/>
Plenipotentiary to the Courts of Paris,<br/>
Berlin, and the Hague. Sir John<br/>
Bowring, it will be remembered, was<br/>
accredited to the Siamese kings by<br/>
her Britannic Majesty, where he sign-<br/>
ed the treaty of 1855, which opened<br/>
the Siamese trade to foreign nations,<br/>
a trade that has now become very ex-<br/>
tensive, especially with Eastern coun-<br/>
tries.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SHIPPING—-Since the date of our<br/>
last issue there has been 19 arrivals<br/>
and 14 departures mostly of foreign<br/>
vessels. At present there is 67 ves-<br/>
sels in port, consisting of Siam 43,<br/>
British 13, Bremen 3, Prussian 3,<br/>
American 2, Dutch 1, French 1,<br/>
Hamburg 1. The tonnage of the<br/>
various nationalities is, Siam 14.209,<br/>
British 6.233, Bremen 1.100, Prus-<br/>
sian 1.055, American 2.498, Dutch<br/>
513, French 320, Hamburg 180.<br/>
Total tonnage 26.108.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
As we are likely to have many<br/>
things to report in the course of two<br/>
or three weeks, we may issue one or<br/>
more extra sheets of the Recorder.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Joseph Halphen<br/>
& Co. of Paris, appointed<br/>
jewellers of H. M. the King of<br/>
Siam, beg to give Notice that<br/>
MESSRS MALHERBE JULLIAN &<br/>
Co. are their sole Agents at<br/>
Bangkok.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We the subscribers beg to inform<br/>
the public that we have established<br/>
ourselves as Auction Merchants in<br/>
this city to sell goods at auction se-<br/>
mi-monthly, thus facilitating the<br/>
sale of goods which may be commit-<br/>
ted to us for sale.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We shall open our business on the<br/>
street near San Chow Kong Kuak<br/>
to commence on the 6th of January<br/>
1867. We shall always give three<br/>
days notice of each sale together with<br/>
a list of the articles to be sold. Who-<br/>
ever would have goods sold at our<br/>
auction sales, we shall be glad to re-<br/>
gieve them to sell at a commission of<br/>
2½ per cent.—-Terms cash.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
LO. MARTIN & Co.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Bangkok Dec. 8th 1867
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_4_1 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Overcoming Temptation.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One night at a late hour, Dr. Bentley<br/>
was disturbed at his studies by a rattling<br/>
sound among some wood, which, sawed<br/>
and split, had been left by a teamster,<br/>
the afternoon previous, too late to be<br/>
properly housed. He arose, went cau-<br/>
tiously to the window, and saw a woman<br/>
filling her apron with wood, which she<br/>
hastily carried away. He resumed his<br/>
seat, and commenced his study. Shortly<br/>
after the same noise occurred; and on<br/>
looking out a second time he saw a sim-<br/>
ilar operation ; the woman filling her<br/>
great apron to the utmost limits of its<br/>
capacity. When she was gone, he return-<br/>
ed to his book with a tender pity in his<br/>
heart for a destitution which sought re-<br/>
lief in this lonely, dreary, not to say<br/>
sinful manner.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
By-and-by he was startled by a heavy<br/>
crash of falling wood, and hurrying up<br/>
to the window, beheld the poor woman<br/>
casting the very dust of the wood from<br/>
her apron. He remained motionless, his<br/>
gentle heart filled with commiseration.<br/>
She swiftly departed, and soon returned<br/>
with the second armful which she threw<br/>
on the pile as if it were the “accursed<br/>
thing.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The doctor's compassion and curiosity<br/>
were now intensely excited. He follow-<br/>
ed her retreating figure till he discovered<br/>
her residence, and thus ascertained who<br/>
she was. What she was, was no mystery<br/>
to him. The last hour had shown him<br/>
her virtue's lofty height. He called early<br/>
the next morning on Mr. B—- the wood-<br/>
dealer, and directed him to send half a<br/>
cord of his best wood, sawed and split to<br/>
Mrs.—-, but by no means to let her know<br/>
from whom it came; which was readily<br/>
promised. Mr. B-—'s teamster who hap-<br/>
pened to be within ear-shot, though out<br/>
of sight, was not so bound, and when he<br/>
tipped the wood into the poor woman's<br/>
yard, replied to her eager inquiry, who<br/>
had sent it, by relating the conversation<br/>
he had over-heard.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The conscience-stricken mother, feel-<br/>
ing that her sin and repentance, in the<br/>
lonely darkness of that midnight hour,<br/>
were known and understood by another<br/>
heart besides her own, hastened without<br/>
delay to the house of the benevolent<br/>
man, to express her gratitude and her<br/>
sorrow, and with deep humility and bit-<br/>
terness, told him the temptation to which<br/>
her extreme poverty had reduced her of<br/>
breaking the eighth commandment.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Though my house was dark and cold,<br/>
though my heart was wrung with anguish<br/>
at the sight of my poor shivering ones;<br/>
I could not keep it; my conscience would<br/>
not let me.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
“Say no more, dear madam,” said the<br/>
good man. “I saw you conquer the devil<br/>
in two fair fights.”
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_4_2 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Higher Need.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
What would we think of one who pos-<br/>
sessed a rare and beautiful singing bird,<br/>
who should lavishly adorn its cage, gild-<br/>
ing and burnishing it, and bestowing<br/>
tender care on its senseless bars, while<br/>
the living, animate object within slowly<br/>
perished for want of care and food; or<br/>
of another who owned a wonderful jewel<br/>
and polished and adorned the casket and<br/>
kept it free from spot or stain, while the<br/>
diamond within corroded and grew dim<br/>
from neglect—-would not such conduct<br/>
seem wrong and foolish in the extreme?<br/>
yet do we see it daily exemplified in<br/>
cases of far greater importance.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The ‘soul’ is that singing-bird—-that<br/>
priceless jewel, and the cage and casket<br/>
the perishable bodies we feed and adorn,<br/>
and spend all our fleeting hours in ways<br/>
and means to gratify, while the prisoner<br/>
within is dormant, or beats its wings in<br/>
silent despair against the beautiful, per-<br/>
ishable walls we rear so proudly—-“sits<br/>
on forlorn,” and sees the happy estate<br/>
God destined it to, recede from it for-<br/>
ever, in helpless anguish at our apathy<br/>
and frivolous unconcern. Better that the<br/>
body should starve, that it should wear<br/>
rags and toil in narrow places, if by such<br/>
constant friction the soul be kept pure<br/>
and bright. If we bend low to carry the<br/>
cross, we shall rise higher to wear the<br/>
crown, and that life is not worth having<br/>
that does not bear the mark of the nails<br/>
—-that has not crucified the flesh again<br/>
and again to fit it for the resurrection<br/>
and the life eternal.—-CHRISTIAN TIMES.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_4_3 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Victoria falls of the
Zambesi.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One of the greatest natural wonders of<br/>
the world is represented by the Engrav-<br/>
ing on page 380, in our Number of this<br/>
week. The Mosioatunya (smoke-sound-<br/>
ing), or Victoria, Falls of the River Zam-<br/>
besi, in the interior of South Africa, have<br/>
been known to us since the publication of<br/>
Dr. Livingstone's first book of travels,<br/>
seven or eight years ago, but were most<br/>
completely explored by Mr. James Chap-<br/>
man and Mr. Thomas Baines, F. R. G. S.,<br/>
when they journeyed across the whole<br/>
continent from Walfisch Bay, on the west<br/>
coast, by Lake Ngami and the Zambesi,<br/>
to the eastern parts, in 1862.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The strangest peculiarity of this aston-<br/>
ishing waterfall is the shape of the chan-<br/>
nel into which it pours, rushing over a<br/>
straight ledge of rock 1900 yards in width.<br/>
The elongated chasm, nearly 400 ft. in<br/>
depth, formed by a wall of rock directly<br/>
opposite and parallel to this ledge, is only<br/>
75 yards wide at its narrowest part, and<br/>
not more than 180 yards at its widest.<br/>
The continuity of this barrier is, at one<br/>
place, only broken by a single outlet, 80<br/>
yards wide, through which the water es-
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
capes into a second chasm, or fissure,<br/>
shaped like the first, and parralliel with it,<br/>
but only about half the length of the first,<br/>
with which it forms an angle. Having by<br/>
this passage approached the line of the<br/>
right bank of the broader part of the river<br/>
above the falls, it makes an extremely<br/>
sharp turn to the left hand, and rushes<br/>
through a third narrow cut along the wall<br/>
of rock that bounds the second chasm on<br/>
the other side. It repeats these angular<br/>
bendings twice more, though not so acute-<br/>
ly and precipitately, before it resumes a<br/>
tolerably direct onward course.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The illustration gives a very correct<br/>
notion of these fantastic perversions and<br/>
distortions of the channel below the falls,<br/>
whilst the broad expanse of the river<br/>
above the falls, with the beautiful green<br/>
islands, some of them full of trees, which<br/>
almost seem to hang on the verge of the<br/>
cataract, is partially hidden by the lofty<br/>
columns of spray, rising often to the height<br/>
of 1200 ft. above the bottom of the chasm.<br/>
The smooth water above the falls is navi-<br/>
gable for canoes, and Garden Island, situ-<br/>
ated on the very edge, has been visited by<br/>
several English travelers, as by Dr. Liv-<br/>
ingstone and Mr. Baines.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"The difference in the appearance of<br/>
the country," says Mr. Baines, "is marked<br/>
and striking. The broad river above the<br/>
falls is bordered by palms and luxuriant<br/>
tropical vegetation; while along the lower<br/>
part of the river the country is dry and<br/>
arid, except where fields of maize or millet<br/>
are cultivated along the tributary streams,<br/>
or where in the rainy season, its barren-<br/>
ness is changed to fertility and verdure."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/right >}}
ILL. LON. NEWS.
{{< /news/right >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
SOMETHING LIKE a cheese was manu-<br/>
factured at the Ingersoll cheese factory,<br/>
Canada, in June last, according to the<br/>
particulars of it given by the TORONTO<br/>
GLOBE. It weighs 7000 lb., or 3⅓ tons.<br/>
It is 6 ft. 10 in. in diameter, 3 ft. thick,<br/>
and about 21 ft. in circumference. In the<br/>
manufacture of it thirty-five tons of milk<br/>
were used. It was made in four days and<br/>
a half, kept in press twelve days, then re-<br/>
moved and bound together with six large<br/>
bands of iron. In a few days the hoops<br/>
were removed, and it was wrapped in<br/>
cloth and wire, and prepared for removal.<br/>
It was taken to New York State Fair, at<br/>
Saratoga Springs, in September, and at<br/>
the fair many persons wished to purchase<br/>
it; but, though so high a price as 6000<br/>
dollars was offered for it, Mr. Harris re-<br/>
fused to sell. This cheese was to be at<br/>
Toronto in the last week of September, at<br/>
the annual exhibition of the Provincial<br/>
Agricultural Association. It is the inten-<br/>
tion of the makers to send it to the<br/>
World's Fair at Paris next year.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The old "Council Tree of the<br/>
Senecas," nearly five centuries old, at<br/>
Mount Morris, New York, has been blown<br/>
down. It measured 23 ft. in circumfer-<br/>
ence. The solemn councils of the Seneca<br/>
chiefs were held beneath this tree from<br/>
time immemorial.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. George Peabody some time<br/>
ago offered to pay for the erection of a<br/>
Congregational church at Georgetown,<br/>
Massachusetts, as a memorial to his moth-<br/>
er, and was lately present at its dedica-<br/>
tion. He has now offered to erect a libra-<br/>
ry building for the town and stock it with<br/>
books for the use of all the people. His<br/>
first appropriation for this is 12,000 dols.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The American vessel the Egmont<br/>
has put into the Mauritius to repair dam-<br/>
ages. She had on board the larger por-<br/>
tion of the electric cable destined to con-<br/>
nect Asia and America, by way of Beh-<br/>
ring's Strait. The cable has been landed<br/>
at the dry dock of MM. Frye and Blond-<br/>
eau. The cable is 400 miles long, weighs<br/>
800 tons, and measures about two inches<br/>
in circumference. The cable was landed<br/>
by means of a special steam-engine, the<br/>
same that is to be used in its submersion.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Alexander T. Stewart, of<br/>
Newport, United States, has announced<br/>
his intention of giving 1,000,000 dols. for<br/>
the erection of dwellings for the poor<br/>
of that city, on condition that the necess-<br/>
ary land shall be provided. His plan is<br/>
similar to Mr. Peabody's gift to the poor<br/>
of London.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Letters have been received in Glas-<br/>
gow from Dr. Livingstone, the distingu-<br/>
ished African traveler, of date May 1,<br/>
1866. The doctor was then in good health,<br/>
and prosecuting his important mission<br/>
successfully.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
We learn by telegraph of a terrible<br/>
gale which swept over the coast of New-<br/>
foundland on Sept. 22. Several coasters<br/>
were lost, and a French frigate, with, it is<br/>
feared, all hands, has also gone down. At<br/>
the time the news left, more than 150<br/>
bodies have been washed ashore, with the<br/>
word "Niobe" on their dress. Nothing<br/>
else had been heard of the vessel or her<br/>
people; but great quantities of wreck had<br/>
been washed ashore.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
South Carolina.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE legislature of South Carolina has<br/>
passed an act securing to the freedmen<br/>
the right to make and enforce contracts,<br/>
to sue and be sued, to give evidence, to<br/>
inherit, purchase, lease, sell real and per-<br/>
sonal property, to make wills, enjoy full<br/>
and equal benefit of personal security,<br/>
personal liberty, and private property,<br/>
and of all legal remedies, the same as<br/>
whites. It further provides for the in-<br/>
fliction of the same punishment for the<br/>
same offenses upon whites and blacks<br/>
alike, and repeals all laws inconsistent<br/>
herewith, excepting the law declaring<br/>
marriages between whites and blacks<br/>
illegal and void.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
One step more, and South Carolina will<br/>
stand squarely upon the platform of<br/>
Equal Rights. She must admit the negro<br/>
to the ballot-box, and then she will be<br/>
thoroughly reconstructed.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1867-01-16_4_5 -->
<div class='article'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Telegraphic Summary for
China and Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Japan.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Tremendous fire at Yokohama on<br/>
Nov. 26. One-fifth of the foreign,<br/>
and two-thirds of native settlement<br/>
destroyed, representing loss of four<br/>
million dollars. Sixty-five foreign<br/>
houses and Consular buildings burnt.<br/>
Insurance to amount of two million<br/>
one hundred and fifty thousand dol-<br/>
lars distributed thus. In dollars-—<br/>
China Company $341,000; Phoenix<br/>
$66,900; Northern $306,510; Lon-<br/>
don and Lancashire $132,000; Liver-<br/>
pool and Globe $80,000; Sun, $156,-<br/>
500; Samarang, $20,000; Albert,<br/>
$43,000. In Sterling.-—Imperial,<br/>
£20,000; North British, £66,000;<br/>
Commercial, £9,000; Royal, £79,000;<br/>
London, Insurance, £43,700.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Fire originated accidentally in the native<br/>
town. An impulse has been given to<br/>
the import trade, by the destruction<br/>
of a large quantity of Manchester<br/>
goods.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Several Japanese students are en<br/>
route to England, sent at charge of<br/>
the Government, to study European<br/>
laws and social customs.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Troops are said to be returning<br/>
from the late seat of war, but the<br/>
Mikado's abandonment of the struggle<br/>
is said to have caused disgust among<br/>
several of his powerful supporters.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Coromandel has been sold to<br/>
Kishiu for $100,000, and the Owari<br/>
sailing vessel to the Government for<br/>
$30,000.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Shock of an Earthquake was<br/>
felt at Yokoham on 24th November.<br/>
No damage was done.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
China.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Additional particulars of French<br/>
expedition to Corea are to hand; Loot<br/>
captured by French troops at Kanghoa<br/>
before leaving, shews a high state of<br/>
material civilization amongst the Cor-<br/>
eans. The Imperial Corean library<br/>
has been brought away for transmis-<br/>
sion to Paris.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Peiho was frozen in on the<br/>
26th November.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Chinese at Shanghae are invited by<br/>
proclamation from the Taotai to send<br/>
objects of interest to Paris Exhibition.<br/>
It is probable that a lighthouse will be<br/>
erected on the North Saddle Island in<br/>
the Yang-tze-kiang.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A severe typhoon has been encoun-<br/>
tered in the neighbourhood of Shang-<br/>
hae.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The viceroy has returned to Shang-<br/>
hae having, according to native ac-<br/>
counts, gained immense victories over<br/>
the Nienfei.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Sir. R. Macdonnall has issued a<br/>
memorandum stating that it is not his<br/>
intention to interfere more than ne-<br/>
cessary with the small trading and<br/>
passenger junks frequenting Hong-<br/>
kong by the exaction of heavy fees<br/>
under the new ordinances.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hongkong dollar has been pro-<br/>
claimed a legal tender to the Cus-<br/>
toms at Canton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Mint Commission has sent in<br/>
its report, but it is not yet made pub-<br/>
lic.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is rumoured that the Canton Au-<br/>
thorities intend to erect light houses<br/>
in the Pearl River from Hongkong to<br/>
Canton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Hongkong Rifle Association<br/>
has been inaugurated by the Govern-<br/>
or. Many robberies and acts of vio-<br/>
lence are reported from Canton.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The Coolie emigration question is<br/>
in abeyance. It is expected that<br/>
much light will be thrown on the pro-<br/>
ceedings of the "emigration agents"<br/>
at the trial of the editor of this paper<br/>
for libelling one of the fraternity. It<br/>
is expected to come off on the 18th<br/>
instant.—-Or. China Mail.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
The Loved not Lost.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}How strange it seems with so much gone<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Of life and love, to still live on!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Ah, brother, only I and thou<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Are left of all that circle now,—<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The dear home faces whereupon<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That fitful firelight paled and shone.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Henceforward, listen as we will,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The voices of that hearth are still;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Look where we may the wide earth o'er<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Those lighted faces shine no more.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We tread the paths their feet have worn,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We sit beneath their orchard trees,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We hear like them the hum of bees<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And rustle of the bladed corn;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}We turn the pages that they read,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Their written words we linger o'er,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}But in the sun they cast no shade,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No voice is heard, no sign is made,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}No step is on the conscious floor!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}(Since he who knows our need is just,)<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That somehow, somewhere meet we must.<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Alas for him who never sees<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The stars shine through his cypress trees;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who, hopeless, lays his dead away,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Nor looks to see the breaking day<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Across the mournful marble play!<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}Who hath not learned in hours of faith,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}The truth to flesh and sense unknown,<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}That Life is ever Lord of Death;<br/>
{{< news/indent1 >}}And Love can never lose its own!<br/>
{{< news/centre >}}
—JoHN G. WHITTIER.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Cheap Amusements for
the People.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Therh should be cheap places of resort<br/>
for reading and recreation, to draw men<br/>
away from the grog shops. I came upon<br/>
one such in Glasgow, and visited it. It<br/>
is called a workingmen's club. It was on<br/>
one of the principal streets of the city.<br/>
I paid one penny (two cents) for ad-<br/>
mission, and found myself in a suite of<br/>
good large apartments, five in number.<br/>
The first was a room for social games<br/>
without gambling, such as "curling," and<br/>
"bagatelle;" the second for chess and<br/>
draughts, where the players could be<br/>
quiet; the third was a smoking room,<br/>
rather dark and gloomy in the day time,<br/>
where one man sat alone with his pipe<br/>
and his meditations, exciting my pity;<br/>
the fourth was a reading room, with nine<br/>
different daily papers from London, Edin-<br/>
burg, Glasgow, and Manchester, twenty<br/>
weekly papers from all over the country<br/>
and some twelve or fifteen monthlies and<br/>
quarterlies of the most valuable charac-<br/>
ter, among which I occupied myself for<br/>
some three hours, and the fifth room was<br/>
a committee room, and at the service of<br/>
any person also who wished to meet a<br/>
friend there of an evening for any brief<br/>
business. No intoxicating drinks are<br/>
allowed. Now, a workingman has all this<br/>
(open from 9 a. m. till 10 p. m.) for a<br/>
dollar and a quarter a year, or for twelve<br/>
and a half cents a month, or for two<br/>
cents a single admission! If there were<br/>
fifty or a hundred such establishments in<br/>
every city, would it not save money from<br/>
the liquor saloons?—LETTER FROM DR.<br/>
PATTON.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/text >}}
TO TAKE WHITE MARKS FROM MA-<br/>
HOGANY.—-If a white mark has been left<br/>
on a mahogany table by carelessly sitting<br/>
down on it a vessel of hot water, rub the<br/>
place hard with a rag dipped in lamp-oil;<br/>
and afterwards pour on a little cologne<br/>
water, or a little alcohol, and rub it dry<br/>
with a clean rag. The dish-marks left<br/>
on a dining table, can, of course, be taken<br/>
off in the same manner. If brandy is spilt<br/>
on mahogany, and leaves a whitish mark,<br/>
that mark can he removed by rubbing it<br/>
hard with a rag dipped in more brandy.<br/>
Try it.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The aim of education should be to<br/>
teach us rather how to think than what<br/>
to think—-rather to improve our minds so<br/>
as to make us think for ourselves, than<br/>
to load the memory with thoughts of other<br/>
men.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
A clergyman in Chicago, last Christ-<br/>
mas morning, missed his stockings, and<br/>
after a long search, found one on each<br/>
horn of a new milch cow, which had been<br/>
presented to him by his parishioners, and<br/>
ornamented in this way to indicate that<br/>
it was a Christmas gift.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
It is understood in Washington that<br/>
Gen. Grant will visit Europe during the<br/>
summer, and will probably be absent<br/>
several months.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The greatest man is he who chooses<br/>
the right with invincible resolution; who<br/>
resists the sorest temptation from within<br/>
and without; who bears the heaviest<br/>
burdens cheerfully; who is the calmest<br/>
in storms, and whose reliance on faith<br/>
and virtue, and on God, is most unfal-<br/>
tering.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Grace does not permit us to check<br/>
ourselves through to Heaven, but to get<br/>
out at each junction of our life and see<br/>
that our faith is right, and to keep heed-<br/>
lest we lose our way. It is this that one<br/>
of the mysteries of christian life, that<br/>
while in view of God's might, we know<br/>
we can never fall, in view of our weak-<br/>
ness, we know that without constant re-<br/>
liance on His help, we must fall forth-<br/>
with.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
The total amount of gold shipped<br/>
to New York from California during the<br/>
past year was $20,564,895.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Odds and Ends.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"An article in the Round Table on the<br/>
"Simplicity of Greatness," says : "Who-<br/>
ever has spent an an hour with Agassiz has<br/>
been charmed with his genial, artless<br/>
candor, and his unrestrained flow of gen-<br/>
erous sympathies. Bryant's manner has<br/>
the unaffected repose of perfect cultiva-<br/>
tion. Emerson makes you forget the aus-<br/>
tere philosopher in his fascinating speech<br/>
and his cordial interest in everything<br/>
that is interesting to man."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Mr. Aytoun, the laird of Kinaldiz,<br/>
was particularly indifferent respecting<br/>
his attire, but was noted for his powers<br/>
both of compliment and banter. Walk-<br/>
ing one fine morning on the Scores pro-<br/>
menade at St. Andrews, he met a lady<br/>
acquaintance whom he saluted with his<br/>
usual courtesy. "Good morning, madam;<br/>
how well you are looking to day?" "I'm<br/>
sorry I can't return the compliment," re-<br/>
sponded the lady, adverting to the plain-<br/>
ness of his apparel. "Poh," said Mr.<br/>
Aytoun, "you might have lied as I did."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
In bodily diseases the tendency to<br/>
dwell on morbid symptoms is itself a<br/>
morbid symptom. And so of the soul,<br/>
the healthiest state is not one of self-<br/>
inspection and self-upbraiding, but of<br/>
self-forgetfulness.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Rev. Theodore S. Cuyler recently said:<br/>
I wish I could be permitted to write in<br/>
golden letters, among Crawford's superb<br/>
marble groups on the forefront of the<br/>
capital, those noble words of the Sultan<br/>
Akbar—-"No man was ever yet lost in<br/>
a straight road!"
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Some one asked Tom Corwin once if<br/>
he had heard a certain story of Lewis<br/>
Campbell's.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Was it about himself?" inquired<br/>
Corwin.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"No, I believe not."
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/text >}}
"Well, then, I never heard it" said<br/>
Tom, gravely.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/separator >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_15 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
SODA-WATER
LIMONADE &C
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED begs to<br/>
inform the Ladies and gentle-<br/>
men of Bangkok that he has bought the<br/>
business of Mr. Cordeiro and will carry<br/>
on the same business on his own pre-<br/>
mises near the French Consulate.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
REMI DE MONTIGNY
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-20_3_16 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE connection of MESSRS. SAMUEL<br/>
GILFILLAN, WILLIAM ADAMSON, HENRY<br/>
WILLIAM WOOD, and PATRICK WILLIAM<br/>
AUCHINCLOSS with our business termi-<br/>
nated by common consent on 31st<br/>
October last, and they have ceased to<br/>
act as Managers for us.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
THE BORNEO CO. "LIMITED"
Singapore, 3rd Dec 1866 (1 m.)
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-06_3_11 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
NOTICE.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
MESSRS Malherbe Jullian & Co.<br/>
beg to inform the public, that<br/>
they have established a branch of their<br/>
business in the house formerly occupied<br/>
by F. Blake Esq. near the Portuguese<br/>
Consulate, and that they have just re-<br/>
ceived a large supply of almost every<br/>
thing their customers may desire to<br/>
purchase, and would hereby invite<br/>
them to come and inspect.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
Bangkok Dec. 6th 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-11-08_3_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
ARNAL DUCLOS,
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BAKER AND CONFECTIONER.
Compradore for Ships
ESTABLISHMENT, SANTA CROIX
FLOATING HOUSE.
Bangkok, Siam.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-25_4_8 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
BANK OF
ROTTERDAM.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
Agents at Bangkok.
BANGKOK 17TH OCTOBER 1866.
{{< /news/centre >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1865-01-16_9_1 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
North China Insurance
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having been ap-<br/>
pointed Agents for the above Company,<br/>
are prepared to accept risks, and to grant<br/>
policies on the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
BORNEO CO. "LIMITED".
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/indent1 >}}Bangkok, 14th January,1865.<br/>
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-10-04_4_7 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
OOSTERLING SEA & FIRE INSURANCE.
COMPANY.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
THE UNDERSIGNED having<br/>
been appointed agents for the a-<br/>
bove Company, are prepared to ac-<br/>
cept risks and to grant policies on<br/>
the usual terms.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
PICKENPACK THIES & Co.
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/right >}}
Agents at Bangkok.
{{< /news/right >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
<!-- Article: 1866-12-13_4_13 -->
<div class='advert'>
{{< news/subheading2 >}}
Notice.
{{< /news/subheading2 >}}
{{< news/text >}}
WE BEG to inform the Public,<br/>
that we have received a new<br/>
and fine assortment of all kinds of<br/>
liquids as, Champaigne, 1st mark<br/>
Roederer and Sacguesson, superior and<br/>
inferior kinds of Bordeaux and Bar-<br/>
gundy wine, Porto, Sberry and Brandy<br/>
of different marks, English and Ger-<br/>
man Beer. Also fruits, jellies, raisins<br/>
for puddings, and various kinds of<br/>
Biscuits.
{{< /news/text >}}
{{< news/centre >}}
A. EYMOND D. HENRY & CO.
Situated at the old palace of
{{< /news/centre >}}
{{< news/text >}}
Somdetch Ong Yai.
{{< /news/text >}}
</div>
{{< news/br >}}
